ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17808	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, thank you for accepting the amendment to the agenda, so that we can discuss this extraordinary point today, and if this is in any way possible, that this House is today adopted for a simple reason for Croatian citizens with a message that we sent a few days ago that the Croatian financial system is stable, that the banking system in the Republic of Croatia is extremely stable. With this amendment to the laws and amendments of the Croatian Government, we send another additional encouragement, because look at these crises as we have said and when there was an inflation and such a financial crisis, the worst and what is very difficult to control is fear. It's completely irrational and it's very difficult to keep it under control especially if the whole financial world is shaking. Let me first say what we have proposed to amend in the old law, so to bring it into line with European Union legislation. I would also like to say something at the moment when this law was drafted, when the Croatian government adopted it and sent it to the Croatian Assembly for adoption, at that time all members of the European Union had a deposit insurance of up to 20,000 euros. But at a meeting of finance ministers in Luxembourg on Tuesday over the crisis, of course, that savings deposit insurance was discussed, first of all, was a proposal to secure 100,000-euro savings deposits. However, one part of the European members, they thought it would be difficult for them to do so, so they prayed that the amount would be reduced, and it was eventually agreed to be between 50 and 100 thousand euros. So the same day, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia began to make changes to the law, in fact, an amendment to the proposed law to be found at the debate in the Croatian Parliament, so that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, later, with the adoption of this proposal to amend the laws with the amendments of the Government, goes practically the same way as the other members of the European Union do. So what did we propose to change the changes in the amendments to the laws? So the height of the secured deposit, the coverage of the secured deposit. Because you have seen in the draft law and in this amendment of the Government, that from 1.1.2010 with the secured deposits of natural persons from 1.1.2010, deposits and small entrepreneurs would be provided. The amendments also provide for a clearer increase in the security of the case. Payment deadlines are also proposed to change and invest funds in the fund. However, since the government's amendments are the most integrated by the Croatian public, and especially by Croatians, let me say a little more about these amendments. So the first amendment is that the amount of the secured deposits rises from 100,000 to 400,000 kuna and that the provision in the law practically enters immediately, at that time of adoption, so when it can legally enter. Also given the increase in the amount, it is proposed to reduce the annual premium rate paid by banks from the current 0.5% to 0.4% so that a complete decision to increase the secured deposits would not put a heavy burden on the business banks, in the end in these difficult financial conditions it might suggest that some additional interest may be raised, which would not be good either for the Croatian economy or for Croatian citizens. So in situations like this, you just have to think about everything, because the price of capital is extremely high on the world market. Many countries, two in our immediate environment, unfortunately, are no longer able to reprogramme their own loans because they cannot get credit from any business bank but will probably use the fund established by the International Monetary Fund as a guarantee that such countries can get out of trouble. So this problem should not be approached as nothing will happen, but you have to simply look at all segments, because if you don't see it tomorrow can happen to be exactly the reason for the increase in the price of capital, because we also have to count on it as now is a financial crisis, so we have to think very carefully and watch what happens next year, what economic growth will be, how much our economies will even be able to reach the funds and that's not what bothers Croatia, that's what bothers the whole world. So that's where we have to be clear, and that's what we have to say. Also in these amendments, the provision remains that since 1 January 2010 it will be extended to small entrepreneurs, because we believe that small entrepreneurs are basically small family economies or crafts and the logical thing is that they are guaranteed for these deposits because they are unfortunately very difficult to protect and ultimately it is in the tradition of European laws and the normal thing is that the Republic of Croatia does the same. Also on behalf of the Government, I ask and ask that this House, when voted on, adopt an article allowing the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate, if necessary, can increase the amount of security deposits for a simple reason, if God doesn't let something happen, the Government can react promptly until the full parliamentary procedure by the time we arrive, in situations like this, it may sometimes be late and if you are one day late. What I would also like to say is that when we talk about this financial crisis and when we talk about an increased amount of deposit insurance, no matter what political option we belong to, no matter how we think. However, there is something that, regardless of the political background and way of thinking, we cannot ignore, which is that Croatian citizens still have fresh wounds from the three banking crises that have been in the past 18 years. There is a people's "Whom the Snakes slaughtered and the Lizard is afraid of" so unfortunately with us, of course Croatian citizens are upset and that's exactly why we went with this proposal. I know there have been certain initiatives why Croatia should not go as some countries with the insurance of all deposits. However, none of those countries that announced that they would go with this have adopted acts to implement this. However, many countries and this is the largest part because only six countries have announced they will go with unlimited deposit insurance, all others have deposit insurance of 50 to 100 000 euros. The second thing, Brussels's official position is not to go with unlimited deposit insurance for a simple reason. Today-to-morrow will be made clear what caused this crisis. You go with unlimited deposit insurance then you practically risk any bank liability for the savings roles of her clients and some will decide on gambling and thus put her in a position to find herself in trouble tomorrow. Therefore, the position of most members of the European Union is to go with limited deposits and accordingly is also the proposal for an amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And why did we actually decide on this amount? For the reason that at this point with a deposit of 100,000, in fact with the provision of deposits of 100 thousand kuna in Croatia, the team covers 54.6% of deposits. When I talk about deposits, then it's all accounts that Croatian citizens have in any bank that don't add up. That may have caused some confusion. You have four accounts in four different banks, each of these deposits guarantees savings of up to 400,000 kuna. That should be made clear, for some have said because of or incomprehensible that these deposits are being summed up. No, I don't. So the law secures all deposits. And with the proposal of this law, so with the provision of deposits of up to 400,000 kunas from data from the Croatian National Bank, it is evident from DAB data that we will provide more than 90% of all deposits of natural persons in the Republic of Croatia. So, ladies and gentlemen, respected MPs and MPs, this was the reason why the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed amendments to the amendments to the law. Therefore, a clear message should be sent to Croatian citizens today that Croatia has a secure and stable banking system. I'm responsible for saying it here from this pay phone and with this stable and financial and banking system, the government has decided on this step and I want to say something else. Co-ordinated by the management of fiscal and monetary or monetary and fiscal policies, the Government and the Central Bank have created a prerequisite that any unforeseen situation can be reacted in time and prevent what has happened to many European countries from happening to us. So it's the truth that no matter how we look, we can't escape. And I'm glad we can't escape, because that's how it turns out that politics and central government are actually government. Governments and Central Banks have been correct in recent years. Everyone in their segments did it to have a system like this that we have. Why, many will say why today's fiscal policy when we talk about banks and monetary policy, that today the state has a deficit of 3, 4, 5 or 6%. There is a question in these conditions and in a crisis like this where they would find funds to finance the deficit. So it's just one small segment regarding fiscal policy. The second thing, by amending the legislation, by establishing HANFA, is that we have also introduced order into the non-banking financial system. And you saw, despite the earthquake on the stock market, the HANFA was firmly in control of the situation and the functioning of the funds and everything. So, in order for all of this to be carried out... A series of laws in the financial sector should be implemented and amended. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the Ministry of Finance, CNB and HANFA have proposed in the government over 20 such laws in the past three, three and a half years, so to introduce order into the banking and non-banking financial system in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17809	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Mr Goran Maric, chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17810	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament held a discussion at the 17th session on 15 October 2008 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act, with the final draft law, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 30 September 2008. The Finance Committee and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed it on the basis of Article 65. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the law in question as a parent working body. The discussion on the board pointed out that the banking system in the Republic of Croatia is stable because banks are highly recapitalised and extremely liquid, so there is no economic risk of banks operating as a result of the global financial crisis. However, it noted that special attention should be paid not to question the hard-earned trust of citizens in the security of the banking system. The Committee debate fully supports the proposed amendments by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the law in question, in particular as regards the increase of the security amount of deposits of citizens from 100 thousand to 400 thousand kuna, as well as the reduction of bank burden costs as a result of the increase of the base for the calculation of the deposit guarantee premium. These amendments would apply on the day of the publication of this law in the "National Journals". The proposed increase in the amount of security savings will cover 90% of citizens' deposits, while the current amount of security deposits of 100 thousand kuna covers 54.6% of citizens' deposits. In this way, the amount of the security deposit of citizens is balanced with those who, in these conditions of the financial market crisis, also brought by the European Union Member States at last week's Luxembourg meeting ranging from a minimum of 50,000 euros to a maximum of 100,000 euros. The co-ordinated work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian National Bank, as well as the coordinated activities of fiscal and monetary policy to create conditions that ensure the stability of the banking system in Croatia, as well as the willingness of the state to react without delay to the consequences of the global financial crisis. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act, together with the proposed amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17811	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17812	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Representatives. My opinion is that there should be no one in this House who will not support this law. I dare say that last week she felt the rush on the banks, even dare say that the real panic came from the banks themselves. These people, as the minister said, felt not one blow, some banks felt several strokes and did not care to see the ranks of citizens or their fellow citizens who were coming and who were raising their life savings. That's what happened last week. I want to believe that this measure or that this measure will go towards sending clear unambiguous messages to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, without any politics, your money in savings or banks is safe. We who had the opportunity to follow directly, so to speak from the inside, which, for example, meant one Istrian, and even the Rijeka Bank really didn't care that this happened last week. Therefore, this message today, this Depravity Act, guarantees up to 50,000 euros, etc. But by all accounts, you should understand exactly as Mr. Shucker said and as Mr. Rohatinski kept saying, our banks are safe. If there were problems with our banks, or rather with this panic, he may have been the most conscious governor of the Croatian National Bank, and the management confirms that they abolished the so-called so-called last week. a border reserve of about 450m euros or a equivalent of EUR 3.7 billion. The governor assured us on several occasions in the last few days that the banks were healthy, that they were liquid, he even pointed out that by the end of September, so this year, our banks were de facto left 6 billion kunas of free funds, as plasmas grew at a rate of 6 instead of 9% allowed by the Croatian National Bank. However, at this point, if our banking system is stable, and such a message should be released from this House, it should be emphasized that we have or that we may soon have problems with the funds. These funds, unfortunately on today, are difficult to say that they are liquid, and their owners of these funds, are generally the leading Croatian banks, so we really have to re-recognise everything and somehow end up in banks. For these funds, too, there may be some way of selling shares of INA that will increase their liquidity by about six billion kunas. On the other hand, the question arises, whether, despite all these measures, Croatia will preserve inflation or retailers, I mean first of all these 10 large chains, as was the case in 8 months, after the sale fell by 7.8% and raised prices by, say, 8 or 9% to compensate for that reduction in citizens' consumption. What is certain is true, as Minister Shuker mentioned, the crisis surrounding us is either the crisis around us or with us simply global. The panic triggered the stock market, moved west to the banks, but in the west it still remains, followed somehow by this psychological crisis. Our neighbours are currently significantly less expendable than they were yesterday, they are traveling far less, they are going to reflect on Croatian tourism next year, they are buying cars significantly less at this point, they dropped them in one Spain by 40%, in one neighbouring Italy by 15%, in us for the first nine months, it's almost incredibly increased car sales by 25% compared to August, August of last year by 20%, but if we record or track down and sell used vehicles, then we see that we are in a minus last year for the first nine months for almost 10%. What worries me the most at this point, it's a fall in car orders from our producers, and what's mostly painfully reflected on Buzetski "Cimos" company that has about $100 million of exports. I also want to believe, as the government has spotlessly taken this measure to secure deposits of up to 50,000 euros, that it will take measures to make sure that our exporters at this time almost world recession meet in some way "privileged interest rates" or loans. But let me go back to this law now. Slovenia guarantees how familiar I am with all the roles. The minister said they didn't pass such a law. As far as I know they guarantee all the stakes, Hungary guarantees up to 51 thousand, meaning as in Croatia, Italy up to 103,000 euros, Austria also guarantees unlimited. I read that because of the fear of the safety of their roles more and more Germans are moving their deposits to state savings, "UniCredit" in Italy is firing at this point some 700 workers, for the first time in their history nationalizing some large banks, Iceland is de facto like Slovenia to us in '93, '94. Blocked money for those English people who saved their lives and, with all that in mind, you should see if Croatia could provide all the savings. I said again, we are de facto saving, guaranteeing up to 400,000 kunas to every citizen, equivalent to as many bills as there are. If someone has five bills, they are guaranteed up to 2 million kunas, if they have three bills to a million and 200 thousand kunas. The truth 90% of the savings in the Republic of Croatia saves up to 50,000 euros, but those 10% of others certainly have more money in those money accounts than these 90% At the end of August, citizens had 135.6 billion kuna in our banks. That's EUR 19 billion. From that, there were 16.5 billion on the jury accounts. I think these jury accounts should also be guaranteed by the state because so far it has not been the case. Unwed deposits were $19.8 billion. It's an armed 99.18 billion kuna. In a year there was plus 10% of the money in the banks compared to last year or $3.84 billion. So if the savings of $136.6 billion in our banks are citizens of banks at this point they owe about $120 billion. That's why I don't think you should be surprised why banks make such profits when the ratio of loan savings is de facto covered in a ratio of almost 1:1, 1:0.9. If the sum of that money is on the other side of the house, for apartments and so on our property in Croatia today is worth 750 billion kuna. So the banks have something to calm down from but tomorrow I repeat the problem again will be our funds. The assets of the funds fell by the end of September by almost 50%. From 30.05 billion kuna from 12 months 2007 to 14.87 billion kuna in September. Secondly, pension funds are also the problem. They were heavy 23.36 billion kuna because the state guarantees up to the level of the guaranteed yield there and their actual income today is 50% of that amount. On the other hand, I think that this kind of debate of the IDS Club will vote absolutely for this law, and I need to be directed and I will once again say a message that the banks are safe. That you don't need to cause panic. It should also be told citizens that the crisis will not bypass the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary that what they are aware of is that it will be harder to get money or that the price of money will be more difficult. That spending will certainly be less and less for each of us. I said 7.8% of the consumption in the retail market fell at 8 months this year compared to the same month last year. Part of the export economy will stagnate. For example, I mentioned the case "Cimos" that exports 100% to one BMW, Opel, Citroen, Peugeot, I don't know any more. And if one BMW shuts down the plants for four days, one Opel for 20 days, it's clear that this company will also feel that impact. It is known how it will be amortised but some will certainly lose their jobs. Will the crisis be felt by Croatian shipbuilding? We'll see about that, but if less cars are sold, then less car transport ships will be manufactured. 600 investments in the country will certainly be far less than they were this year. This has been announced by, I don't know, tourist workers, it is announced by leading businessmen and it is now clear that from, from, that first blows will most likely be felt by retailers in little bit and will feel by builders. Secondly, it should also be said that Croatia will also seek money in the international market, and we have withdrawn annually through banks, through companies, through a country of about 5, maybe 6 billion euros. It will therefore need to be employed on the domestic, domestic market. We're going to fall most likely from abroad and to keep them in these existing circulatory gauges of a billion and a few Euros, I think this law is absolutely fine. EURO will grow or already grow and only so we don't get any more inflation. In one word, in the year ahead, I'm talking about 2009, it's certainly going to be harder to live. However, what is certainly good luck for Croatia is that our banks are safe. The fact that we own our banks is a side of a big bank, for example. Destroy the credit that fires 700 people there. It should be believed that there may be a change of titles but that they will remain taken care of and secure. I'm talking about employees, I'm talking about banks. All in all once again for the fourth time, the fifth time even though I would be the happiest to be guaranteed for all deposits this law is good. He has that psychological, psychological moment but if one Slovenia can guarantee all the roles, perhaps we should see whether the same or the Republic of Croatia can go in that direction, although I agree that this law should be adopted today and, as a message, addressed in this way to the public. The stories about the escape of money from our banks that we have the opportunity to read today in those who guarantee 100%, for example, in Slovenia or Austria, I think they're fictions. I'm sure that won't happen. And if that were to happen, it's clear that it should be prevented. All in all, the IDS Club supports this legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17813	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17814	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Regardless of the level of knowledge from the economy, the economy is interesting for everyone because it deals with important things for us as individuals, but also for us as a human being who believes in better society. It is therefore more or less known to all of us that the market economy is a presumption of market balance and economic development, as well as that the market economy does not necessarily lead to justice because very often a market economy can lead to unacceptablely high levels of income inequality and consumption. At the same time, it is known that the financial system mirrored the economic development of a country and that trust is the basis on which each financial system is built and rested. There is no more sensitive area than the financial sector, and its stability, unlike any other sector, depends solely on trust and not cognitive but so on. an effective trust. It is indisputable that the financial system is stable when all its components function perfectly. Financial intermediaries, the financial market, the financial infrastructure and the regulation. The financial sector in Croatia has responded to all the current challenges of the global financial crisis and without greater consequences suffered blows from crisis financial markets from the international environment. The proposed legal framework and harmonised activities of fiscal and monetary policy are a guarantee of the unfavourable history of the financial sector in Croatia from the 1990s when due to inefficient management and lack of proper supervision, there has been a failure of a large number of banks and savings banks, as well as a marked mistrust in the banking system. The fact that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia currently hold about 135 billion kuna in banks points to the re-emergence of citizens in the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia, but this already acquired trust must also be maintained in order to preserve the stability of the financial system in the Republic of Croatia. This new legal framework will undoubtedly help preserve citizens' trust, but it can also help to learn about some indicators from the financial sector. For example, the total assets of financial institutions in the Republic of Croatia are about 440 billion kuna, and the assets of banks are 340 billion, which points to the fact that banks in the total assets participate with around 77% and that these banks are those financial intermediaries that give the basic characteristic of the structure of our financial sector, which is the banking-oriented financial sector. In such conditions, it is also important to mention that the assets of the banking sector are 25% higher than our gross domestic product, and together with non-banking sectors, the total assets are higher than GDP by almost 60%. Looking back five years, the financial sector grew at an average annual rate of 18%, which also provided adequate economic growth rates, and all this was achieved under the conditions of financial stability which were primarily made possible by economic policymakers, including fiscal and monetary policy. In addition, a whole package of financial laws has been amended and provided for by the new regulatory and supervisory framework including the establishment of the HANFA. Financial potentials for the development of the economy are largely in banks which are also the Croatian savings potential, because in savings and hand-to-hand deposits, together with foreign deposits, more than 160 billion kuna, or 47% of all sources of banks or almost 60% of the gross domestic product of the Republic of Croatia. Among the many economic roles of the country, one of the most important is certainly the correction of market failures, which have been in abundance on the global financial market lately and with serious economic consequences. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act is also intended to contribute to additional regulatory stability of the financial system, and to protect financially under-educated depositors from losing their deposits in the event of the failure of a credit institution. Therefore, the deposit insurance system is both a specific form of system protection, consumer protection. The existing deposit insurance system is regulated by the Deposit Insurance Act and the level of the secured deposit is 100000 kuna and is calculated as the total amount of all deposits of a particular citizen with a particular bank whether he holds them in one or more savings accounts, in a current account or in a jury account in a domestic or foreign currency. Deposit insurance premiums are linear, i.e. equal for all banks and savings banks. It is calculated at a premium rate of 0.125% three months, and the current Deposit Insurance Act provides for the possibility of fixing a lower amount of the premium for secured deposits in a situation where the funds in the Deposit Insurance Fund are greater than 2.5% of the total amount of the secured deposits in all banks. The main reason for proposing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act is full harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. compliance with the provisions of the Deposit Insurance Programmes Directive. The proposed amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia are due to the current financial market crisis in the world, the current amount of insurance for citizens' deposits is increased from €100000 to €400000, and since 1 January 2010, the guaranteed deposit of €400000 would also be related to deposits by all natural persons and small entrepreneurs in accordance with the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the provisions of the applicable Deposit Insurance Programmes Directive. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has also proposed to amend and amend Article 9 of the current law in a way that reduces the premium rate of deposit insurance from 0.5 to 0.4% annually and from 0.125% three-monthly to 0,10% three-monthly, due to the reduction of bank burden costs resulting from an increase in the base for the calculation of deposit insurance premiums. The Government of the Republic of Croatia reacted to these amendments in line with most European Union countries, as did Austria on 8.10., Belgium 7.10., Denmark, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Great Britain, Sweden, even Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina. From our environment, he has just not responded for the time being, announcing an increase in Serbia's limit, which otherwise has the lowest limit of 3,000 euros. It should be pointed out that since 1 January 2010, this law provides for an extension of the scope of insured depositors from citizens to all natural persons and small entrepreneurs. At the same time, this law regulates the reduction in the period of compensation, i.e. that the compensation of depositors must be made within 90 days of the date of establishment of the secured case with two possible extensions of 90 days, which is a significantly shorter period prescribed by the Directive and which is the year. This law introduces a provision that regulates the moment when deposit inaccessibility is established by the basis of which the depositors acquire the right to compensation, and that provision and the time limit are in favour of the depositors. In fact, the applicable law gives rise to the right to compensation by the bankruptcy of a credit institution while the depositors have the right to compensation, and when the Croatian National Bank finds that the credit institution is unable to pay off deposits, it is not likely that this situation will almost change. This law also provides for the possibility of taking measures to increase liquidity and insolvency of a credit institution. This is an investment in the additional capital, enrollment and payment of new shares, purchase of assets or issuing guarantees for certain liabilities of a credit institution, with the total amount of funds invested to prevent inaccessible deposits not exceeding 50% of the amounts of secured deposits of a credit institution shown in the last month's deposit position report. The possible application of the measures is subject to the prior opinion of the Croatian National Bank. In nature, measures to increase liquidity and insolvency, i.e. preventing the opening of a bankruptcy procedure, will be part of the co-ordinated measures of the Croatian National Bank and of the agency through a special administration in situations where the financial situation of the credit institution is such that the continued business of the credit institution is uncertain. It is known that there are two important sources of failure of the state – bureaucratic imperative and short-term horizons. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act, and in particular the amendment to ensure from 1 January 2010, that the Agency provides deposits of citizens in each bank, savings bank and housing savings account to an inclusive amount of 400,000 kuna per cent, and that the excessive rate is reduced from 0.5% to 0.4% per year. The government of the Republic of Croatia has neither brought it in because of bureaucratic imperative nor because of the short-term horizon. On the contrary, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has thought exclusively in the long term made a rational proposal, a logical and timely proposal, but also a proposal that is also necessary for a stabilisation factor, i.e. a proposal that is in the interest of maintaining the stability of the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia, but is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This bill is also an act of strengthening the stability of the financial system, but at the same time because of the fact that in banks in fact, the Croatian savings potential carries a message and economic growth, social security and political responsibility. The HDZ Club will therefore vote in favour of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act together with the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17815	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS and HSU Club, Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17816	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Today, it is generally believed that the stability of a state in the modern world is not only made up of factors affecting its physical integrity, its sovereignty, but above all those factors affecting the stability of financial and economic operators or institutions in that country. A little unusually happened in Croatia, and we are witnessing today that the first signs of the stock market crisis, stock markets and stock instruments on the financial market were almost headlessly selling stocks, securities, trading, so what else happened was a panic psychological reaction, not only in Croatia, but also in the world, as well as on the first signs of tectonic disorders or earthquakes, a sink in the American financial market, and a European investment activity, but also in Croatia as well, so that our investment industry actually felt very quickly that this one system was rocking and also a lot of investors in the funds, in the fund industry as quickly as it was selling our roles, so we had all these days of opportunity to see, even if you want to theoretically consider what is happening in the conditions of the crisis. And by some scenario, perhaps, the domino effect was expected to happen, as is the lack of confidence in the securities market or the reduced trust as well as in the fund industry, to the investment industry that the same could happen or that it would happen when it comes to banking institutions. However, here is a wonderful miracle that has not yet happened, so let us not be evil prophets and not call upon evil I believe that this will not happen in Croatia, although these first two instruments or parts of the financial system have been seriously violated, the banking system somehow resists all of this, citizens still have confidence, and this decision today will probably gain even greater confidence. I think this is an opportunity for us to congratulate, above all, the Croatian Monetary Authority, the Governor of the National Bank, and also the Ministry of Finance and the Government, who have been all these years, I would still be able to keep the citizens' trust in banking institutions and trust in the fact that deposited amounts of funds, the citizens' money is actually safe in Croatian banks. It's not easy to do, trust is fragile. We see this now around the world, in countries that we often take as an example in rich countries, see only one island or see what is happening in France or Britain where the country will actually have to intervene by recapitalisation of banks, Italy and other countries. We can truly say that in Croatia it is the trust of the savings, the trust of the citizens in monetary policy, the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian banking system still great. So what we do today when we talk about trust is actually more psychological effect or it's going to have more psychological effect than the real financial effect. We are all aware of the fact that if there were a real stampede of citizens saving that regardless of the amount and the level of the security stakes, it would be difficult or almost impossible for the banks to pay off all deposited funds in the short term. So it's everywhere in the world, so it would be in Croatia. The most important thing is that banks are able to measure their usefulness and timeliness in terms of the active and passive measurements, because if this is not the case, no repayment of the savings roles of the funds deposited in the short term is possible. That is why this also has a strong psychological effect, so raising the security amount in our banking institutions is certainly going to return, if it has been a bit of a rocking of the trust of Croatian citizens, and I think it is good that since 2010 and all natural persons, so small entrepreneurs can also count on the insurance of their roles because they have actually deposited the means personally, as well as the deposited asset most often crafts or any other means necessary for their activity. Therefore, the HSLS and HSU club will support this bill amending the law, which, of course, we have maintained financial stability, we provide savings stakes of up to 400,000 kuna, no matter how many accounts we normally have. So maybe the citizens have more bills, so we're not only providing 400 grand, but possibly over a million kunas, and that's certainly good. What we must do further, raise the economy so that the average citizen can reach $400,000 in savings. So let's get them 400,000 kunas, but let's make sure that even if we can raise the economy that 400,000 kunas can really save.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17817	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17818	Mr. President and Mr. Secretary with an associate. I guess this is a rare day for Minister Shucker in the Parliament when we all or most, through what is otherwise the parliamentary majority of the government will support one law. Because it was obvious that an intervention measure was necessary and it was good to go with this intervention measure, i.e. with this kind of amendment and addition of the Deposit Insurance Act. Maybe it's not burning up at this point to make it clear what that means. This means that all people who have up to 400,000 kuna in banks in the form of savings deposits, i.e. up to 50 thousand euros, can be safe for their savings and that if anything happens to them within 3 months or the longest within 9 months to 400 thousand kuna, or 50 thousand euros, their bank money will be paid and guaranteed by the state. I think it's important to say that because it really came to me I'd say nervousness and feelings of uncertainty in people who have savings stakes in banks. In a globalised world, they see 700 billion dollars in packages, in America, 87 billion dollars, in the UK, which are being extracted, over which financial industries, the national economies from actually one crisis that has not been seen in our lives, at least so abruptly and with such drastic effects in the world's most powerful economies. Therefore, order at this time such amendments and additions of the law to all citizens that whatever happens to them, up to 50,000 euros will be paid the longest in nine months if there is a worst crisis, is important and good. It's a matter of no doubt about it psychologically. So it's about calming down, say, the discomfort and fear that arises in such a situation, but the economy, and especially the financial market is under a strong influence of psychology, and as we know this year's Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman is just saying that one of the reasons why he won the Nobel Prize is that he writes about the age and the economy of reduced expectations and the balloon that has developed especially on the financial market in the last 10 or 15 years is not realistic. So this fire and psychological measure if you want it to be important and good and it's appropriate right now, we believe in the HNS club that there were actually no real reasons, especially because it was a psychological measure, that there was no real reason not to guarantee everyone's roles. It is clear that such a measure is, of course, just the final conjecture, that before that there are a number of other measures and this is only if nothing else works, then it goes to this kind of payout, or guaranteeing savings deposits. So if it is about the need to calm down one law of fear or panic that people have started to feel for their roles in banks, then in our opinion it would be more consistent and efficient to propose in these changes and additions that they simply guarantee all savings stakes without this limitation to $400,000, or to 50,000 euros, respectively, since, of course, the assumption that such a situation will not occur. Because if it did come, no country in the world could pay off all the stakes in this way, but it is clear that there are still a number of measures before that and precisely because of the effective effect that is planned here and hopefully will be achieved, it would be better and more effective if all the savings stakes were guaranteed rather than those limited to 50,000 euros. In this situation it's actually some kind of stimulation of those who have more than this amount, that this amount of division into multiple banks. It is the only effect of what I see, so since each account is guaranteed in that case, the only idea is that the amount that exceeds 50 thousand euros is not seen as why it is necessary and why it is intervened if it could be easily solved by simply guaranteeing all savings stakes without this limit of 50,000 euros. The psychological law, to put it this way, is a psychological measure but a good and necessary measure and it is important to do it at this time, as far as the HNS Club is concerned, we suggest that the possibility of guaranteeing the savings stakes without this limit of 50,000 euros be reconsidered. On the other hand, in this situation when we are now faced with the need for such fire measures, it may be true if not just after the last moment, that we start to think about what we are going to do with the revised rate of growth that is expected for the next year from what is written 3.5%, so is there any plans to deal with the problem of significantly reduced expectations. Because we are a small and weak economy, so for us 3.5% of growth is not the same as for strong-based economies, it's very important for us to say a sad perspective. Therefore, at this point in time when fire measures are needed, it might be the right time for us to prepare for the fact or for trying to repair that result that is now being predicted and projected, from a 3.5% growth in the following year which, of course, would be a stagnation for the Croatian economy. So, in order not to have to take fire measures in the next year, let's think about this in time. As far as the HNS Club is concerned, it will support this law in this form of reduced expectations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17819	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17820	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The stability of banks is largely due to the citizens of Croatia. If you remember a little of the previous, crisis moments in banks, however many citizens first felt the blow and paid for the good part of the impact, they always remained faithful to banks and savings. And just that money, those deposits and those savings in banks are the reason for the stability of that banking system. In the following year and years, according to experts' forecasts, an economic crisis is expected, which will mean the fear of the people for the job, the payout which will mean the problem of how to deal with the cost of living, and we think that these concerns will be enough for the citizens. And that's why the SDP club supports increasing deposit insurance to $400,000, so that citizens at least don't have to have fear and think about their savings because they'll probably need that savings to partially cover and spend their lives without talking about some investments. And I think that this is the best reward for citizens for their loyalty and for saving, and we believe that this savings will also allow the banking system to play its part in further development and investment. As the government also spoke about fiscal policy and the results of fiscal policy in this debate, and the SDP disagrees with the views and assessments expressed, but since this is the Deposit Insurance Act, we will not use this pay phone to express our disagreement with fiscal policy today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17821	Thank you. SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17822	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS Club understands that in this situation where we have found ourselves it is necessary to support the measures proposed by the Government on deposit insurance both for the security of citizens and their funds in our banks and for the prevention of money spills from our banks to the extent that our banks are in other banks, i.e. banks with stronger and more secure consolidation mechanisms for the banks that are taking over countries in our neighbourhood, especially members of the European Union. However, we as a club will support it. However, I think this is an opportunity to remind ourselves on this segment of what extent and how we have a sufficiently consolidated and strong country and in other segments where it needs citizens. So to what extent our country is able not only to be a firefighter, as is often the subject that we discussed last week and on the subject that we are discussing today. And to what extent we are actually consolidated as a state, we are strengthening as a state in the function of citizens, in the function of what it needs to ensure to citizens and that we go from institutionally weak countries to a strong state. States that are able to respond to the various challenges that today's world brings with it, including development elements, including local self-government, which we unfortunately have in most cases, in most units of local self-government too weak and on the other hand, in the function of social mechanisms. Our social mechanisms are unfortunately still marked by war experience and war consequences, and they are not social mechanisms that the state would implement as elements of development or as elements of social justice. And in that sense, I think it is important that we remember this particular important issue or important issue for us at this time. Of course, it takes the government to have a serious strategy, to have the government seriously think about it, and to prepare for the times ahead in view of the experiences we have, which in this respect are not the best. I hope the government understands that, I hope that the government will use the potentials that exist in this respect both within the coalition and outside of the coalition capacity, and that it will focus on not being in a situation like this and not only this one, but I am also telling the one we discussed last week, and that we approach things with fire measures instead of accessing measures designed and long-term strategies to strengthen the institutions of the state. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17823	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17824	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The recent dramatic situation in the US and some European financial markets has shown the importance of the stability of the financial system for the overall economic order and life of each country, and good and effective legislation is one of the essential factors in the stability of the system. The Deposit Insurance Act is one of the legal regulators for the stability of the financial system, but also for the protection of depositors who are financially under-educated and thus most exposed to various sudden turbulences in this sensitive market. So, this is a specific form of consumer protection, because the depositor is a citizen who deposits his free money, invests with banks and other credit institutions, so he is a participant in the capital market. In the current legal regulatory system there were also legal assumptions for the provision of deposits through the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks adopted in 1994, amended and supplemented in 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2004 and the 2004 Deposit Insurance Act of 2004. However, it is precisely because of events such as those that have recently hit and shaken the global financial market and because of the need to comply with the acquiss of the European Union, but most of all, in order to protect and preserve their own stability of the financial system, it is necessary to adopt the proposed amendments to this law. Any proposed amendments and additions to this law may be read in the following. First, the law defines exactly who is considered a credit institution, and says that these are banks, savings banks and residential savings banks based in the Republic of Croatia, as well as branches of credit institutions based outside the Republic of Croatia that provide services in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the law governing the business of credit institutions. Therefore, equalised domestic and foreign credit institution branches, i.e. ensuring equal protection of depositors in all credit institutions. Secondly, there is an increase in the amount of compensation for citizens with so far 100 thousand to an amount of up to 400 thousand kuna per credit institution regardless of the number of its bank accounts, the amount of funds on them, the currency and the place where these bank accounts are held. Third, the range of secured depositors, creditors from citizens to all natural persons and small entrepreneurs has been expanded according to their classification under the Accounting Act of 1. 1. 2010 Fourthly, the compensation of depositors must take place within 90 days of the establishment of a secured case with two possible extensions of 90 days, which is a shorter period than the deadline prescribed by the directive which is one year, which is the day when the Croatian National Bank determines that the credit institution is unable to pay off deposits, and that it is not likely that it will soon be able to do so. Therefore, there is no need to await the declaration of the credit institution's insolvency proceedings for depositor compensation. Fifthly, the right to compensation also includes interest claims that reach the time of the security case. The sixth, the Croatian National Bank is duty-free and no later than 21 days from the date on which it found that the credit institution did not pay the deposits to make a decision on the inaccessibility of the deposit. This solution informs the relevant credit institutions and the Agency for the Insurance of Savings Roles of the Case and it must be published in the "National Journal". The Agency shall continue its activities to ensure that the creditors are compensated. And seven, this law provides for measures to increase the liquidity and insolvency of a credit institution. So that's where it's being helped. The measures to increase liquidity and insolvency must therefore be proposed by the credit institution of the Agency, and they must contain the type of measures, operators of implementation, performance deadlines, and insurance instruments. These measures are, as a rule, investments in supplementary capital, enrollment and payment of new shares, purchase of assets, and the issuance of guarantees. The total amount of funds invested under these measures shall not exceed 50% of the amounts of secured deposits of the credit institution. Furthermore, this law obliges a credit institution to provide its clients as well as future potential users with information on the deposit insurance system, which I believe is particularly important that they must be in Croatian and Latin letters, and available in all branches and online cells of the credit institution. It is also prohibited for a credit institution to charge such notices to clients or to use them for advertising and promotional purposes. I believe that it is ultimately necessary to highlight the very rapid and timely response of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance towards preventing the financial crisis, preserving citizens' confidence in the security and stability of our credit institutions. This saves the financial market from major disturbances, as the sudden withdrawal of savings roles could be a major blow to banks that would be left without capital, and thus to the total economy that would be left without the necessary trade credit capital. All of this would ultimately reflect the standard of citizens. Therefore, the government's own announcement of an increase in deposit insurance from 100,000 to 400,000 kuna has further strengthened investor confidence and prevented an additional blow to the financial stability of credit institutions. That is why I think we have nothing to wait for, but to legalize what is already in its announcement so to say saved our financial market and enabled normal economic and other lives and work without additional resources and increased fears for the future. Here, in the end, I say that I will support the amendment and addition of the Deposit Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17825	Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17826	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. It sounded quite amazing to find the first man the state finances of Minister Shuker that the Croatian banking system is safer than the one in the environment. However, the reasons for this are objective, so we know very well that Croatian banks are highly recapitalised and on the other hand we know that they are very liquid, which means that not only do they have a lot of capital, but that capital is such a structure that they are highly represented precisely by these most liquid assets. But surely the strongest factor of this high security of the Croatian banking system is the Croatian National Bank, which is firmly controlled by its function as a financial supervisor. But let me say, however, that I think that this high security of the Croatian banking system is one part, at least part of the result of one delayed effect of the impact of the financial crisis on our financial system because the Croatian financial system has to admit it, however slightly less developed than the world. So obviously in this case, underdevelopment is an advantage. So, I don't think the crisis has come to Croatia yet in its full strength and that's why it's good to hear it, and that's why it's welcome right now to increase this move by increasing the amount of secured deposits from 100 to 400 thousand kuna, but on the other hand, to extend the savings cycle from the beginning of 2010 to craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. This will cover 95% of all savings, and those who have higher amounts of free funds than those 400 thousand, are not actually classic savings, but we can already call them investors, and investors always have to count on themselves to bear much of the risk of investment. And that's why I'm not really a state guaranteeing all the deposits, so that's why more than 400 grand. In the conditions of very dynamic changes on the stock exchanges, we have witnessed these days that last week Crobeks fell terribly, so in these last days, he began to show high growth again. So also because Croatian citizens are still not so well educated or better educated, they do not have so much experience with investing free financial resources, it is obvious that savings in banks are in fact the safest form of investment. And now it will become even more secure because the state will be more than ever behind deposits in business banks. Even if the interest on these deposits were higher, and it is obvious that the interest-enhancing area has because the banking industry is absolutely the most profitable segment of the Croatian economy would certainly be better. And it would certainly be best if at the same time the money of Croatian savings was cheaper for Croatian entrepreneurs, if it were in function of economic growth because we all know it very well there are no good banks without a good economy and there is no good economy without good banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17827	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17828	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here's just a few days ago in this House we passed the Credit Institutions Act. In the debate on the adoption of laws and the importance of credit institutions for the overall economic and financial system of the state, the importance of adopting the highest international standards of banking business and, in line with the same adoption of a quality legislative framework, which will have mechanisms and instruments for effective prevention and resolution of possible crisis situations in the business of credit institutions. The same context also mentions the negative financial and economic effects, i.e. the extent of the damage that can cause crisis situations in the financial sector and which we are currently witnessing in our wider and closer environment. But we also witnessed the result of the collapse of the banking sector in the Republic of Croatia at the end of the 20th and early 21st century, and the effort needed to restore confidence in the sector and finally succeed in its full stabilisation. Unfortunately, the consequences of this crisis are still felt today in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia. The fact which speaks of the current stability of the banking sector or credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia has also been found to be the equivalent rate of guarantee capital at the end of 2007 at 16.36%, therefore 4.36% above the minimum prescribed according to the Credit Institutions Act or 6.36% above the minimum prescribed then applicable Banks Act. It is also important to note that none of the 33 credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia had an adequateness rate prescribed under the law. All of the above indicators and the debate led by this occasion certainly contribute to the claims that we could listen to these days by the governor of the Croatian National Bank of Mr Rohatinski and by the Minister of Finance of Mr Ivan Shuker. Here is also today in this opening statement on the stability of the financial system in the Republic of Croatia, and that there is no concern that the crisis on the global financial market is more significant to shake the stability of our banking sector. I would especially like to commend here the coordinated activity and the work of the monetary and fiscal policy of this country that has just contributed to this situation. The stability of the financial sector, with a quality legal framework governing the business of credit institutions, certainly contributes to ensuring the security of the deposits of citizens and other natural and legal persons who trust their financial assets in the protection of credit institutions under certain conditions and on which these same credit institutions mainly base their business. Therefore, it is of paramount importance to make constant efforts to preserve the liquidity of the financial system and, in order to do so, it is necessary to do everything possible to strengthen the trust of citizens and other committees in credit institutions because they are only interested in the safety of their rarely acquired assets and in banks in the form of savings deposits invested financial assets. This is what the World Bank representatives are warning us about these days. Also Ministers of Finance, Group G7. So 7 of the world's most developed countries stress in the context of turbulence in the global financial market how important it is that each country has strong deposit insurance programmes in banks just to preserve the financial stability that is only possible with the preserved trust of the savings. We are reluctant to recall the crisis of the banking sector in the Republic of Croatia during which, if memory serves me well only in a few years, 11 Croatian banks ended up in bankruptcy with inconceivable economic consequences and totally segregated trust in a financial system which was very difficult to restore. I honestly believe that something similar in the Republic of Croatia will never happen again. Since I come from Županja, the city they call the County City in bankruptcy at the time I will tell you really in the shortest lines something about the bankruptcy of the County Bank which completely then changed the economic social picture not only of the city of Županje but also of the entire Vukovar-Srijem County. At that time, not only for the County Bank, loans were often granted without clear economic criteria or economic operators, which were partly due to the price of capital at the time, and partly because of their credit incompetence could not be returned in due time. It has been a large number of cases of ownership-related companies with a bank, which has complicated everything further. When it first came to the situation that the bank could not service its obligations, so when the red light came on, there was a stampede of savings and there was practically the beginning of the end. I believe that we are all aware that there is no bank that can be held in such and similar cases, so in the event of the Committee's dissuasive trust. After opening a bankruptcy procedure on the principle of so-called ‘. The domino effect has also collapsed a large number of economic operators with clear social consequences, which unfortunately still today, are still feeling. Finally, I would like to stress on this example the importance of the deposit insurance system which was at that time, as it is today, in the jurisdiction of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. So thanks to the deposit insurance system at the time, 81% of the total savings of citizens, which at the time amounted to 746 million kuna in the County Bank's passive system, were settled. Unfortunately, 142 million kunas of savings that were not covered by insurance are still subject to bankruptcy proceedings and how much information I think the majority of these funds have managed to be charged out of bankruptcy. In order to avoid similar situations in the future, it is very important to understand that the basic principle of the business of financial institutions must be the principle of security because each credit institution is based on the trust of its committees and not on the principle of profitability as was the case in our near past which in the business of credit institutions can represent that I paint the sword with two blades. The quality deposit insurance system for which the introduction into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia has been established since 1994 by the adoption of the Law on the State Agency is today a very important pillar of the security of developed financial systems because it is in its essence also a specific form of consumer protection system, i.e. savings and their savings roles. The existing deposit insurance system in the Republic of Croatia is therefore regulated by the 2004 Deposit Insurance Act. In accordance with the applicable law, the amount of the secured deposit is 100000 kuna, according to all the savings stakes and each bank, which means that if it saves and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have their savings stakes in more banks that 100% of their savings are secured in each of these banks. The Law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act and the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are proposed on the one hand to bring the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union and, on the other hand, to raise confidence in the banking sector, thus contributing to the security and stability of the entire financial system, thus creating assumptions for further uninterrupted economic development, which I think is much more important than the first reason. Finally, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act, including government amendments, provides for important newspapers. I'll only mention some of the most important. Therefore, this amount of secured deposit has been increased from 100000 to 400,000 kuna and it is expanding the circle of insurance depositors from citizens to all natural persons and small entrepreneurs, reducing the insurance premium rate from 0.5% to 0.4%, and I believe that this provision provided for in the law to give the possibility to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that, if it assesses the necessary yield and a higher base, the higher amount of deposit insurance is good, because in such situations a spot reaction is needed. For all of this I have said and indeed for the very reason I personally believe that this law will contribute to the additional security and stability of our overall financial system, I will personally support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17829	Thank you. In 10.57, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. In fact, this Final Bill on Deposit Insurance cannot be seen in isolation and beyond the context of the global financial, global economic crisis that has spread from America to the European Union. This law has a strong social dimension, but it is the result of one responsible and I would say economically wise Croatian government policies. This law is a clear message to both Croatian banks and Croatian businessmen and Croatian savings and in that psychological sense that the state guarantees financial stability, that Croatian citizens with full confidence should continue to save in Croatian banks and that their deposits are secure. As was the decision of the monetary authority, so the Croatian National Bank on the abolition of the reserve was also timely and wise, and this Law on deposit insurance and the increase of the guaranteed amount to 400,000 kunas was also part of a responsible policy that does not ignore and does not close its eyes to the global crisis, which will be less or more dependent on the economic and financial structure of a particular country. It is psychologically important that after the entry into force of this law we will not have pressure on the counters and what Mr. Kreso Filipovic was talking about. So, if we remember the '90s, if we remember some of our banks. So, with everything that was happening in them, and illegally, it was that psychological moment that spilled the glass and the drop that led to their final bankruptcy. I believe that these measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian National Bank are part of a systematic and monetary and fiscal policy, that these policies have shown in early this year that they do not underestimate the situation and that they do not close their eyes. Let us remind ourselves only when the state budget was planned to then go both restrictively and thriftyly, that we went to a careful assessment of the growth of the gross social product. The general government deficit is also planned, so from 1.3% of GDP. So for the first time, the budget had a primary surplus, so about a billion kuna surpluses. It's the first time in the state budget. So, it went thrifty, it went restrictively. The state has, for the first time, covered its consumption from the collected revenues, and even part of the revenue was used to pay off foreign debt. During the adoption of the budget, there was in the professional public controversy in which direction to go. The signs of the crisis were already there and there are those economic experts who at the time advocated a stronger government debt in favour of increasing consumption, because they felt that consumption should be a generator of development, that consumption should particularly be a state-owned, investment-enhancing economic growth. However, under the conditions of threatening inflation with uncertain global movements, the government has made a decision and has proposed a budget that was on the trail of precisely curbing state spending and even stronger control of deficits and expenditures. Such a fiscal policy has proved absolutely correct at the moment and what is happening today is just denying all those who have been to increase state spending and a greater role of state spending in the growth of gross social product. The monetary policy was also at the height of the task. A series of measures taken since the limitation of the reserve, from the regulation of minimum foreign currency liquidity, the decision to enter mandatory cash registers. So these are all measures which also focused monetary policy on the maximum limit of bank placement and on restrictions on foreign borrowing of banks. Therefore, both policies have made good and timely moves. An even more important effect particularly on monetary policy was in increasing savings. So, the fact is that banks in order to compensate foreign sources for favourable domestic sources of money promoted and encouraged domestic savings that grew over 10% last year, and this also speaks of the trust that we have built on our banking system and I believe that these measures proposed by the Croatian Government will, therefore, further strengthen trust in the banking system through this Deposit Insurance Act. In the definition of economic theory, we have that saving is giving up spending, and that's exactly what we need today. So, you need to stimulate and further reduce inflationary pressure. It is clear that it is not a long-term sustainable economic model, but it is certainly good to mitigate these impactes on the global economic crisis. It is therefore necessary to support this law and should continue to monitor developments in the global market in order to be able to make moves and protect and preserve the country's macroeconomic stability in due time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17831	Thank you. And a five-minute debate, the HDSSB Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17832	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it seems that, at least according to this bill, it is in some way a consensus here in the Croatian Parliament that the global and financial and obvious economic crisis is at work, it is not current, it will, unfortunately, be even stronger in the coming years, so these measures taken by the Croatian National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, and related to the abolition of the mandatory reserve is this law, namely the bill on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act. In any case, I think that they are timely and I think that the citizens will welcome you after several financial banking crises that we have had over the past 20 years, here is this measure on the guarantee for deposit of savings deposits of $400,000, although it would be good if the Ministry of Finance, or the Government suggested that this guarantee be unlimited. But what bothered me a little bit was that it was fire and psychological measures. If we were dealing with psychological measures, I think the finance minister would agree, it wouldn't be good. I think that these measures that have been proposed for a deposit of up to 400,000 kuna that the government does not go with the intention to be a psychological measure and to be a fire measure, but to be a real amendment to the law by which the government truly and truly guarantees every citizen's security deposit up to 400, and as we have seen much, much more if savings are in several different banks and here I hope that there will be no repeat of those times as with many banks in Croatia earlier, as it has been, here it has been recently with the City Bank in Osijek in bankruptcy where they have been saving for years in fact seeking their money that they had in the City Bank in bankruptcy, including many other banks, not only in Slavonia and Baranja. Therefore, by welcoming not this intention, but this procedure and the Government, and before that also the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17833	Thank you. Final review, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17834	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, so first of all thank everyone for the support of the amendments to this law, but allow me just a few clarifications because no matter what some things are pointed out at the outset, they have repeated themselves through some discussions. But first, I wish this couldn't be any fire measure because if something had happened so that if we were to put the fire out, then it would have been a fire measure. This is a precaution. If God doesn't let something happen to the citizens of Croatia, they'll be safe. So that's something. However, what is obviously a mix-up, and it was also in the debate, the citizens are guaranteed funding in a bank of up to 400,000 kuna. He can't have 10 deposits in one bank and then be guaranteed all 10 deposits. So that's something that's clear. The second thing is that some of the funds from Croatia will go to other countries that have unlimited savings deposits. We need to be aware that you can't just come to any country, open a bill like that and bring money that no one will ask you anything. After all, you must have permission to open an account. Also when we talk about these larger deposits, the deposit of 10 million kuna is not a safe savings but rather some investment policy, someone with these money could have started some kind of business, so here it is exclusively about protecting the savings of Croatian citizens, therefore these are Croatian citizens, but I say something that is a practice in the European Union. Let us not call upon ourselves when it suits the European Union, and at this point it says that it is not or is so. In the end, two more things. When the budget is proposed, then you will see whether the Government has considered these economic trends that follow, but then we will also not be able to bid for certain expenditures to be so much and so much because such economic growth and such an economic power can produce so much and so much revenue in the state budget. And in the end, you're neither who attributes it to the sole merit of this or that, if there wasn't a coordinated policy between monetary and fiscal authorities, we probably wouldn't have the situation today as they are, but it's precisely known in that division as to whose business it is. What we tried to stick to in these 4.5 years and in the first term and in the second term to really give the Croatian National Bank one total independence, so that they can manage monetary policy on their own without political interference. So, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you once again for supporting this law and I hope that Croatian citizens will sleep more peacefully after this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17835	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the vote. We are now going to vote on this final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Before that, we have amendments submitted by the Government, which have become an integral part of the law and have not been voted on and several amendments by the Committee on Legislatives. Minister, go ahead. Amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17837	The amendment cannot be accepted first because point 2 applies to foreign branches that would work in the Republic of Croatia, and at least what we could read was the intensities of the Committee on Legislatives, they thought this applied to branches in the Republic of Croatia, which is why we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17838	The chairman of the Legislative Committee? ... Amendment withdrawn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Second amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17839	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17840	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. We're going to vote on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? In agreement with 86 votes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act was adopted. Now we would have three points, I suggest a pooling of these three points: Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 158, Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayor and Mayor of the City of Zagreb, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 155, Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 157. It's all in one close relationship, so I suggest that we unite the debate, with the fact that on behalf of the clubs I can speak for 20 minutes. Consent? Okay. Then we go to these three laws. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 158, - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 155, - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 157 The Proposer is Government. The hearing was conducted by the relevant committees who submitted their reports. State Secretary Antun Palaric will further explain the proposals of these laws. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17842	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam MPs and gentlemen of the MPs. Respecting the will to further improve the system of local self-government, the Croatian government has proposed, long before the regular local elections, amendments to the laws that change the model of the choice of holders of executive powers in local self-government and which regulates future relations between directly elected municipal mayors, mayors and mayors and their deputy and also elected representative body. These laws were passed with a vast majority of votes in this Croatian Parliament. And after the law was passed, we continued to analyse the possibility of improving legal solutions and after consulting many representatives of local self-government and regional self-government units, we believe that the system can be better. Therefore, with these three laws, we are fully rounding up the reform of the electoral system at local level with several major changes that will facilitate the functioning of the executive authority. In the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, we propose that local self-government units that have more than 10,000 inhabitants and in the counties, the holder of executive powers, the municipal chief and mayor may have two deputies. In view of the fact that the system of local self-government is being abolished, it is estimated that one mayor with one deputy will not be able to carry out all executive tasks in the best way possible. We therefore believe that due to the amount of expected jobs in these larger units of local self-government, it should be possible for the mayor to have two deputies as well as the mayor, as well as the municipal chiefs in those rare municipalities that have more than 10,000 inhabitants. We have respected the fact that certain smaller units of local self-government want to have a more efficient structure, so to reduce the cost of salaries to the holders of executive powers. The legislative solution so far has predicted that in units of local self-government up to a thousand inhabitants, the mayor can perform duties, or the chief of staff without establishing a working relationship, and above that he should be a professional. In Croatia, the development of local self-government went in this direction to have a large number of local units that have 3, 4, 5 thousand inhabitants. For them, the cost of paying the municipal chief and his deputy would be quite a burden. On the other hand, we want to create a space to highlight individuals living in their neighborhood, who want to engage in the welfare of their community in which they live, so that they can do the job of mayor, municipal chief without establishing a working relationship, and also deputy. And we leave it to their will that when they are elected, and many will also point out in the campaign that they will perform their duties and we estimate that there will be a huge savings for local budgets. In municipalities and cities that have more than 10 thousand inhabitants and in the counties the holder of executive powers, therefore the mayor, the municipal chief and mayor must be in a working relationship, must establish a working relationship in that unit of local and regional self-government, and their deputies will be able to argue whether they will perform a duty with the establishment of a working relationship or without the establishment of a working relationship. On the other hand, this law guarantees the provision of representation of members of national minorities in those areas where, under the Constitutional Law, members of national minorities are entitled to a proportionate representation. The members of the Croatian people in the units of local self-government are also members of the Croatian people in the minority. Therefore, in the event that regular elections do not elect a deputy from the ranks of members of the national minority or in cases where Croats are in the minority unit, they shall be guaranteed to members of the Croatian people at least one alternate and in additional elections where they have the right to vote. If a minority deputy is elected, then only members of the national minorities, if a deputy from the Croatian Parliament is elected, then only members of the Croatian people. I would also, for the sake of the minutes, and perhaps after the adoption of the amendment, immediately correct Article 1(6), where the misrepresentation of the law to be applied has occurred. The provisions of the Law on the Elections of the Municipal Mayor, Mayor, Mayor and Mayor of the City of Zagreb will be applied when the additional elections are held, in which they are not contrary to this law. This means that not all will be able to choose, not all will be able to run, but only members of national minorities in the areas where they are seeking to ensure that representation. Compared to the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, we have only one small change, and it is about creating space for more candidates in smaller cities. According to the current decision, the mayoral candidate had to collect at least 500 signatures of voters living in the city's area, and we have cities with 3, 4 thousand inhabitants, so 500 signatures would be difficult in those areas. We therefore allow the possibility or suggest that the number of necessary signatures be reduced to 200 in order to immediately create assumptions that as many people as possible are running to be able to choose the best candidates. I must immediately say that the Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment that is more specifically under discussion in this article and given that a great deal of effort has been made in this amendment, we will accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors and Mayors. The city of Zagreb is the capital of the Republic of Croatia. He has a special law on him and the law contained the basic principles of the local self-government system in Croatia. But as the election system has changed, it was also necessary to amend the Law on the City of Zagreb as regards the election of mayors and his deputies, with regard to the mayor's responsibility in relation to the City of Zagreb City Assembly, the possibility of being resolved by the City Assembly even though there are no heads in Croatia anymore, it certainly cannot remain in the City of Zagreb. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of these legal proposals, we are creating assumptions that local elections can be held in a way that will restore citizens' confidence in elected representatives. We believe that this package of laws that improve the system of elections will also be one contribution to the fight against corruption, that it will stop perception of trade mandates, because when citizens choose, they will know who they choose by the name and last name of candidates and their deputies, and their vote will belong only to the one they voted for. I am convinced that in this new political game, prominent individuals who want to contribute to the development of their end, who want to influence even without a working relationship, that citizens live better in areas where they are elected and that the quality of democracy rises to a higher level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17843	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Political System Committee and the Rules of Procedure? And the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? The chairman of the Committee, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17844	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government at the 15th session held on 24 September 2008 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government with the Final Proposal of the Law submitted by the President of the Croatian Parliament to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Committees within the meaning of Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discusses the act in question as a parent working body. The Committee held a united debate on the final draft law, and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb with the Final Proposal of the Law and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb with the Final Proposal of the Law. The Committee held a written opinion of the Association of Cities on the Act in question. In his opening statement, he pointed out that the resolutions proposed by the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government are to address the shortcomings identified in the provisions of the laws relating to the regulation and matters of how the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputies are to be performed. Also in the opening statement, it was stressed that the proposed amendments to this law in relation to the law on amendments to the Law on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, "National Journal" 109/07. The provisions of which take effect on 17 May 2009, set out the difference in the number of deputy mayors, mayors, or mayors, proposing that local self-government units with up to 10 thousand inhabitants, the municipal chief, or mayor, have one deputy, and local self-government units with more than 10,000 inhabitants, and in cities of county headquarters, or counties, municipal chief, mayor, or mayor, or mayor, have two deputies. The following opinions, comments and proposals were presented in the debate. In relation to the solutions proposed in Article 1. The final proposal for the Law is an opinion which should examine the solution to the items set out in paragraphs 6 and 7 concerning the additional elections in which the deputy municipal chief, mayor, or mayor, from the ranks of national minorities or from the order of the Croatian people in the units of local self-government in which members of national minorities make up the majority of the population, both with regard to the exercise of voting rights in these elections and with regard to the number of write-offs necessary for the validity of the candidacy. It is pointed out that the deputy municipal chief, mayor, or mayor, performs all the duties of deputies, so all citizens with voting rights in the local self-government unit should decide on his election. The opinion under which the provisions of this article should be complemented in such a way as to define the circumstances for elections in local self-government units in which members of national minorities make up the majority of the population, the head of that unit to be elected from the ranks of the Croatian people, or to be elected from the ranks of members of national minorities in other units of local, regional and regional self-government. In this regard, it has been concluded that the solution proposed by this article is that local, regional and regional self-government units will be elected by the mayors, mayors and mayors from the ranks of national minorities in those units of local self-government where members of national minorities make up the majority of the population. The committee members expressed different views on the solution set out in the Final Proposal of this Law, which suggests that in the units of local self-government that have more than 10 thousand inhabitants in the cities of county headquarters, that is, in the counties the municipal head, the mayor, or the mayor, have two deputies, with the elected deputies deciding whether to carry out their duties professionally or without establishing a working relationship. In the opinion of most board members, the proposed solutions should be supported in view of the scope of the operations carried out by larger units of local, regional and regional self-government. In the opinion of the Committee members, the proposed solutions are not acceptable. In the first instance, because they leave the deputy municipal chiefs, mayors, or mayors, to decide on their duties, which they are chosen to perform professionally or without establishing a working relationship. In this respect, the opinion has been expressed that the proposed solution under which the deputy mayor, mayor, or mayor, decides whether to carry out the duty chosen professionally or without the establishment of a working relationship, does not refer with the explanation of the proposed solution, which requires two deputies in local self-government units with more than 10 thousand inhabitants, the cities of county headquarters, or the counties. In this regard, too, the question has been asked, for example, how will the mayor of the big city with two deputies who decide to perform the duty chosen without a working relationship be more effective than the mayor and his deputy who carry out their duties professionally. As the issue has been settled in advance by the law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, whose provisions enter into force on 17 May 2009. The debate gave an opinion by a member of the Committee, under which all leaders of units of local self-government who have less than 10,000 inhabitants should carry out their duties professionally. An opinion has also been given to regulate the question of who is changing the mayor in the event of his resignation by impeaching him. The President of the Association of Cities met the Committee members with the opinion of the Association of Cities on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, stressing that the Association of Cities was not consulted in the process of preparing the proposed amendments and supplementing this law. In the light of the content of the opinion of the Association of Cities, it follows that the proposed amendments and additions to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government should be extended to: a provision on the mandatory consultation of central authorities of the State Administration with national associations of local, regional and regional units prior to the forwarding of the draft draft laws and other regulations governing issues of importance and impact on local self-government and provisions on cooperation and association of local units in order to jointly carry out self-administrative work as well as decentralisation of business and powers. In this regard, it was pointed out that the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which was fully ratified by the Croatian Parliament, sets out the obligation to consult local units in the process of preparing and adopting regulations directly concerning units of local self-government. After the debate was held, the committee proposed the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17845	Thank you. I am reporting that the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić, has called a meeting of the committee today at 14 o'clock in Josip Jelačić's hall. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr. Zastavnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17846	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. We suggest that this law, the name of this law, be completed. Instead of such a very complicated name as the Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, he could have a subtitle called the Law on Political Trade in Local Self-Government. We have heard here today one of the most important reasons why this law is being amended, and that is that the Government after having conducted two readings of this law, after having had a thematic debate on this law, after the first two readings were consulted representatives of the units of local self-government so that the associations of cities and associations of municipalities and after it was brought here in the Croatian Parliament before the last parliamentary elections, so the government has noticed after careful analysis that the mayor and deputy who will be professionals will therefore not be able to do the job that was put before them after the next local elections than that it will be much more effective for the mayor and two deputy volunteers, which means that two deputy volunteers are worth more than one deputy professional. For that argument, we don't have any data. We do not have the information that the government believes will not be possible after the next election, but we need to add another volunteer. That's one thing. And secondly, we're giving these volunteers a chance to decide whether they're gonna be professionals or they're gonna be volunteers. It's a unique case that someone can decide on their own. Is the mayor going to be a professional and a volunteer prescribed by law? Whether employees of the city or municipal administration will be professionals and volunteers and will be employed by law enforcement. The only team now who, because of the increased range of jobs, must have two of them is left to say for themselves: "Well, listen, I could do it in the afternoon and evening" or "No, I have to be a professional, so I will be in a permanent working relationship." As long as this absurd goes on, it is said in the amendments to the Law on the City of Zagreb that the deputy mayor of the city directly elected mayor of Zagreb can be volunteers. So in the city of 10,000 inhabitants and in the city of 800 thousand inhabitants, we introduce the same criterion that the deputy decides whether or not to do business professionally. That's why they're obviously not the reasons. Obviously, someone feared that they would not win the election, the local elections, and that the possibility of buying, or adding, space to the coalition agreement should be extended, and since this will no longer be possible after the next election with the chieftains should be done before the election from the mayoral, mayoral, or mayoral post. And according to this law, some of the parties will have more deputy mayors and mayors after the next election than they could have dreamed of in their lives. Because precisely because of this coalition redistribution will simply be assigned to them, not assigned, but to the second-place deputy. What he's going to do is I guess he doesn't know who's gonna be the deputy and he doesn't know who's gonna be mayor because if we read the law and see what's the role of the deputy in the current system and it hasn't changed in the new system he's changing mayors or mayors only and only then and in the extent to which the mayor or mayor assigned it. So the deputy mayor doesn't have the original powers. Only then, and within the scope of the powers granted to him by the mayor or mayor, can he do the job. Go there, get me that, or go there, do it, and make that decision. The deputy mayor can't make decisions. If it has the power to make decisions, it may only take them to the extent assigned to it by the head of the local self-government unit. So he can't make the kind of decision he thinks he needs to make but what he thinks the mayor needs to make. And now we say, "No. One professional will not be able to do it but needs two volunteers who will be so powerful that only they can decide whether or not they will be professionals. Obviously that reason is just an excuse. We are again dealing with peripheral matters, we are dealing with matters of political trade instead of having spent the whole autumn as the government's final programme is talking about the regional development strategy, the Regional Development Act, the Law on the financing of units of local self-government. Well, gentlemen, it says here that by September 30th, a law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government will be passed, a whole law that will be applied from 1.1 next year. What are we discussing today how to buy another coalition partner? What are they gonna do? What money will he work with? Well, that's irrelevant. Because it obviously and gave up the decentralisation project where we're going back to the political redistribution project, and then I guess we'll see what the election results will be in the local elections, and then we'll see if we can give the crumbs or leave everything back to the Prime Minister's office to decide that one of them will decide on the money, and the other to give consent. If that's the case, then we don't need any deputies except to go to protocol stuff. But other people from the city administration who are professionals all over the story can do that. How unseriously prepared this law speaks also the final articles. Thus, Article 3 states: “This law enters into force on May 18th. ” By this law, these amendments to the law change a law that is not at all in force, which will take effect on May 17th, which means by May 17th, we have elected mayors and mayors of this kind. Under a law that will be in force on 17 May on election day, one deputy is elected, and only the next day on 18 May do we have two deputies. When are we going to choose another deputy's currents directly? It's a minority, it's a minority. So, even here, we're going to change a law that isn't in force, which will be in force one day, and that day we're going to change it. The only question is, how are we going to choose this other deputy then? In this I would still have some understanding that this law included what GONG and some other NGOs sought for example on the issues of transparency and campaign financing. But these amendments have not been adopted in 2007, nor are they discussed today, but we are going to discuss whether they will have one and today to discuss whether they will have one or even three deputies. Because we didn't go for it to say watch our practice. We have provided by the Constitution that in certain units of local self-government, representatives of minorities must be represented in the executive government. To be represented in the executive power, you must be elected. To be chosen, you have to run and we're pretending to be the unfaithful Tom and we say if they don't get elected there'll be additional elections, so if he's not run, he can't even be elected. Therefore, where there should be a representative of the national minority, deputy, pardon mayors, mayors and I don't know what has to be run and the list that passes is quite certain that it will then be elected and there is no need for additional elections, there is no need for additional elections. And so we should define Article 1 and not define it as awkward as it is, so we also have a relatively clumsy amendment to the Legislative Committee where we don't practically know what if the head of the unit of local self-government is a representative of minorities in a minority unit, so what are we going to do, whether we're going to have both leaders and deputies, so now we're doing some gymnastics between that. Therefore, if we have constitutional law, if we have to implement it, and it would be good to implement it when we are not already implementing some other laws in this Croatia that we have passed, then it is necessary to prescribe mandatory candidateing of national minority representatives on the list for one deputy. Now we've got plenty, we've got two, and there's no need for additional elections. I'll go back to local self-government. We adopted an amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government in 2005, in November 2005. These amendments to the law are by the day of today's dead letter on paper, because neither, or one, we are the Law on Spatial Planning, but the other 34 laws have not been given here in this three years in Parliament to define what local self-government is on 18 May 2009 and that our citizens have no doubts about how they choose, but that they have, they know exactly how to choose, but they also know what they choose. So he'll decide who he chooses. Because if they need a pawn to be managed by the government and the Ministry of Finance, they'll choose someone like that. But if they need the leaders of a local self-government unit that will have powers, opportunities, financial fiscal capacity, they might choose someone else. So, if they're going to choose an obedient or under if it's a system to choose an obedient or a similar person who, as some government representatives say, should have exceptional ways of communicating with the government, then probably so. And if he's looking for a man who's going to run a local self-government unit, define development projects along with the city council and mayor and citizens and exercise and also have powers and fiscal capacity, then he's going to choose someone else entirely. And we instead of doing it again and again and again and again are only discussing how to redistribute ourselves, how to get more party people the possibility of various syncurrencies and how to reward potential coalition partners so that we can get to that little power that exists or power that exists in local self-government. And we, instead of going after a more transparent way of choosing and empowering people in local self-government, directly elected people in local self-government, are doing one half-lardy again. We instead of having a mayor directly elected, we will have a closed list that we will offer to citizens where they will not know when they will go to elections they will not know whether they will have 2 or 3 deputies in a single unit of local self-government. And even today, here we are even now when we're discussing this, we don't know in the end who's going to choose the third deputy. Whether it's going to be elected by all or chosen by only members of the national minorities. If only a member of the national minorities will choose him, will he have the authority of the deputy? Because if not all citizens, then we should have a limited range of powers. And if everyone chooses it, then we can do it in the first round, or in the first two circles. As we find ourselves in absurd speeches and the situation that was completely forgotten in order to hold elections for the mayor of Zagreb that we should also implement the Law on the City of Zagreb. And only now are assumptions being made, but only in the City of Zagreb for direct elections. We, it's not true what the secretary of state said that these laws are actually assumptions for direct choices. We have these assumptions. We've got them, we've got them, we've adopted them as a big deal before the last local elections. But then the government forgot that the City of Zagreb also has certain things to be defined in the Law on the City of Zagreb so that it could be realized afterwards. And now, as I have said to the Law on the City of Zagreb, it is even going to be said, not so, which will not be necessary for the mayor of 2 professionals to be volunteers, so let them decide whether professional or volunteering will be a duty. And yet we have a law that goes into effect on May 18th. How many deputies will we choose in Zagreb on 17 May? One? Two? More? I don't know. We have the same thing in the final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Elections of the Mayors, Mayors and Mayors, where this law is said to be effective by the decision to call the first subsequent regular elections, and only the law we amend has entered into force, but it will apply on the day of the decision to call the elections. Why is it not the same provision on entry into force, on application, but on entry into force. Therefore, there is no reason for us in the SDP to see any rational reason for these amendments to the law where it increases from one to two. We see the reasons only in defining the choice and position of representatives of national minorities in local self-government units where development representation should be ensured. We agree with the amendment of the law on amendments and amendments to the Law of Elections where the number of signatures is reduced, but we have given such amendments when the text of the law was, so these amendments have been rejected. Moreover, we have given even better amendments, we have said that the percentage determines how many signatures should be collected, but then it was not respected. It's been refused. And now the government returns it to us after a year and tells her, look, we've seen that we also have small units of local self-government where we've prescribed that we need to collect more signatures than there are residents. So we said that and we should finally start listening to MPs no matter which lines they come from, or left, right or middle. And we propose to the government to stop dealing with marginally ephemeral issues and finally start addressing key issues for local self-government issues that will remove the possibility of corruption in local self-government, which will mark the strength of local self-government units and I call on the government to extract from the archives of the Government of Croatia programme adopted in this House. It has been adopted and should also apply to the Government and should be respected and applied as the Government should respect and apply the Law on ratification of the European Charter of Local Self-Government where we have found that when preparing and adopting laws relating to local self-government must be consulted by representatives of local self-government. Again, this was not done in these three laws, and I don't know except for more municipal economy and funding, which is an important law for local self-government, and we don't have to consult them at all, and if this isn't to be consulted, then what should we consult about? Our problem is to pass the law, including the P.Z.E., and then put it in a drawer and we don't think that law applies to the government or the HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17847	Thank you. A few corrections to an incorrect quote. First, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17848	Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry I don't have a replica to respond to a series of incorrect allegations presented here by Agent Mršić. I'll just look back at two. One was that someone was scared, and the other was that they wanted to meet coalition partners, so I'm saying that neither one of them was true, but a series of allegations is either. I'll try to explain. A professional or volunteer by that logic Mršić would not be either a representative, or you would not be, this is an explanation of an incorrect quote, you would not be either mayor or a representative. Either you're doing one job well, or you're doing one job badly. So we should open the subject of a professional or a volunteer. That's one thing. Two, two deputies. I'll say, so the explanation from Dubrovnik's example. So, the city can't function, and you can't, like the agent said, send someone from the city administration, even to the protocol. So it's necessary for the deputy, at least the deputy mayor to change when he's in the Parliament, as we are. So you've completely groundlessly said this here. It's necessary to have 2 deputies, and it doesn't matter if they have a professional or volunteer institute because you can be quite excellent at being in one or another status, depending on your attitude to work, but I could... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17849	Second correction, Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17850	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd correct in a series of incorrect allegations, I'd only make one right. So, counterpart Mršić said this Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government can be called the Law on Political Trade of Local Self-Government. I'm correcting it because these changes came from the field. These changes came from the field to allow, that the possibility that the mayors of municipalities in smaller areas of 10,000 means residents, could be volunteers, could be professionals. To give the possibility that in cities that have both municipalities and counties more than 10 thousand means can be professionals and can also be volunteers. So the government didn't say it would be a volunteer, the government only gave opportunities to decide on the ground itself, and the citizens would decide whether to support someone who would be a volunteer or a professional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17851	Next correction, Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17852	Thank you. Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's also in a series of incorrect allegations I'd like to correct a fellow Mrs. Gristle who was touched somewhat by a fellow Shuica, but I'm going to quote him here. A colleague Mršić said "obviously someone was afraid he would not win the election so he wrote such a law". The laws are not proposed on the basis of fear, so neither is this law proposed on the basis of fears of losing elections, but under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and constitutional provisions, and we have no fear of losing elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17853	And Mr. Representative Josip Djakić, please see the correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17854	Mr. Vice-President, I will correct only one incorrect allegation in a whole series of inaccuracies made by Mr. Mršić, which is that this final bill actually legalises political trade. It's absolutely incorrect and there's no justification in anything, it's what you said that this is legalizing and legalizing political trade in local self-government units. Because this very way and this bill will make it clear to the citizens who will decide whether they support the candidate as well as his deputies whether they would be professionals or volunteers. The citizens will ultimately decide, not you or anyone else, but citizens who will have a clear picture of the political options that come together in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17855	HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Damir Sesvecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17856	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since there is a united debate on these three amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, I will begin with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which is a fundamental law governing the system of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. It lays down the powers and competences of the local authorities, their relations and responsibilities. The last novel of this law of October last year also introduced a direct selection of executives in units of local and regional self-government requiring the regulation of relations and division of competences between representative bodies, municipal and city councils, and the County Assembly and the holder of the executive authority, so the mayor, mayor and mayor. The transition to the direct selection model of the executive body aims to achieve their greater legitimacy and better and better quality management system through the establishment of a balance between the representative body and the executive authority. This will ultimately contribute to greater stability in the functioning of local authorities, and thus the units of local and regional self-government as a whole. By this law, therefore, the proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to regulate the number of deputy municipal mayors, mayors and mayors in relation to the size and population of the local unit. Under which conditions the municipal chief and the mayor, or their deputies, may carry out their duties professionally and the issue of the election of deputy municipal chief, mayor or mayor from the ranks of members of national minorities, as well as their election from the ranks of Croatian people in those units where members of national minorities make up the majority of the population. So it is proposed that in units of local self-government that have up to 10,000 inhabitants, the municipal mayor or mayor has one deputy, and in units that have more than 10,000 inhabitants in cities, county headquarters or county mayor, or mayor, or mayor, have 2 deputies. An increase in the number of deputies will certainly be an additional incentive for the pre-election coalition of parties, which in our opinion will help reduce the possibility of co-habitation and thus increase the stability of local authorities. As regards the rights of national minorities where it is prescribed that they have the right to exchange representation in the representative body, as well as in units of the regional self-government where the statute provides that the deputy mayor is a member of the national minority, one deputy municipal mayor, or mayor, or mayor, must be of the national minority. In units of local self-government where members of national minorities make up the majority of the population, members of the Croatian people are entitled to a proportionate representation. One deputy municipal chief, or mayor, must be from the ranks of members of the Croatian people. If this is not ensured, additional elections will be held for these deputies, of course, provided that the mayor is not part of the order of the national minority or of the Croatian people, which he proposes to be complemented by the amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system which the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community certainly supports. It is also proposed, which will of course depend on financial opportunities, that in units of local self-government that have up to 10 thousand inhabitants the municipal chief, mayor and their deputy as well as in units of local self-government that have more than 10 thousand inhabitants, large cities, cities, county seats, or counties where the mayor and mayor and mayor of responsibilities perform professionally, their deputies shall decide within 8 days of their entry into office whether or not the duty they are elected to perform professionally. As regards that 8-day deadline for a decision on the possible professional performance of some of those duties, I believe that it should be defined not to be too inclusive. that elected officials who would therefore have the right to do so during the term of office may decide on their professional behaviour, because there is not only a series of subjective but objective circumstances which may happen during the term of office of 4 years which would require professional behaviour, for example, the long-term disease of the mayor, mayor or mayor, a significant increase in the number of jobs, etc. In any case, I have a good solution on the possibility of introducing a volunteer exercise of those duties. This will enable citizens who have their professional careers in areas outside politics, administrations and other public services or, for example, engage in entrepreneurship and those duties would not or would not want to carry out professionally, and with their knowledge, reputation, experience can contribute to the development and prosperity of a particular municipality, city or county in which they live and work, thus increasing their involvement in local policy. Of course, all of this on condition that they are not found or could be found in a potential conflict of interest. In addition, Article 90 of the same Article regulates the rights of elected officials when they perform or decide to carry out their duties professionally, the right to pay, remuneration and other labour rights as well as the rights to which they are entitled after their professional conduct has ceased. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 5 October last year. It therefore introduced the direct selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb for the first time in the political system of the Republic of Croatia. It was certainly a large and significant newspaper that changed not only the electoral system but also the concept of local and regional self-government compared to the current system, thus introduced in the early 1990s. I will repeat that, for the direct selection of executives in municipalities, cities and counties, it is important that such a choice is better and more precise to reflect the expressed will of the present system when municipal mayors, mayors and mayors have been elected by the municipal and city councils, or the county councils from the ranks of their members, as a rule between party or independent list holders. It will also contribute to strengthening citizens' confidence in the possibility of affecting political, social, economic, municipal and other issues of importance for a particular unit of local or regional self-government. As far as this law is concerned, it is evident that there are little changes, changes and additions to only one article. Therefore, it is proposed to amend Article 15 which sets out how many signatures should be collected for the validity of party and independent candidacys. Thus, compared to the current provision of the law, it is proposed that 200 signatures and 500 signatures for the mayor of the city with more than 10 thousand should be collected for the mayor of the city and less than 35,000 inhabitants as prescribed for the mayor of the city with less than 35,000 inhabitants. The remaining number of signatures remained the same and is not proposed to be amended by this law. And as for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb, it is therefore about its alignment with the provisions of these previous two laws that I have spoken of. This law harmonizes the provisions on the executive body of the City of Zagreb where it ceases to be the City's headship and remains the only mayor to be elected by citizens in the direct elections, determines that the mayor of Zagreb has two deputies who are also elected in the direct elections as well as the mayor and that the mayor will perform his duties professionally, and allows the deputies to choose whether to carry out their duties professionally. It is further proposed to delete the provisions relating to the City's headship and the obligation to align the Statutes and other general acts of the City of Zagreb with the provisions of this law within 90 days of the date of entry into force. Since all these amendments and additions are therefore to be made, all these three proposed laws must be implemented before the direct elections are held in the Republic of Croatia, which will be held in May 2009, the Croatian Democratic Community representative club will support their adoption by an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17857	Thank you. We have two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17858	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'd like to correct Mr. Representative's incorrect allegations. This law cannot contribute to the better functioning of local self-government, but it can only be the Law on the financing of local self-government where more funds will go to local self-government units. Here people will not choose deputies, or they will decide whether to volunteer or not. And this is where Mr. Mrsic would be corrected, not the law on political trade, which is already in the work of buying a series of local self-government. This is one Frankenstein creation that doesn't say that these are direct elections but again indirect elections. And this law will certainly hold four referendums during the term of office if the mayor and the City Council are not in the same political options. And the law has not resolved the issue of not adopting the budget at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17859	Thank you. This would be more of a replica, but since there's no replica for clubs then... Second, Mrs. Biljana Borzana, also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17860	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct the inaccuracies of fellow MPs who say this law wants stability to increase local self-government or local authorities, as he said. I think it is clear to all of Croatia, the entire public, that this law will not improve the stability of local authorities but only the stability of state authorities because HDZ is through it at the heart of its coalition partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17861	Also a court of law, not a correction. ... A court of law, not a correction. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on. Club IDS and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17862	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. Now I've heard this. The store was and will be, and he who is excluded from it shall cast the first stone. However, I believe that reforming all reforms when it comes to both the state and local self-government would be the one if it comes from the direct election of all MPs. Anything else, until it happens, in my deep conviction, it'll all be cosmetics. But unfortunately this, the choice of all MPs, and it's just as soon as these elections are elected by the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, it seems that no one will. Not one to say left-right, up and down, not one to live in the north, not in the south, not in the east, not in the west. If that were to happen, then the government would be subdued to the Parliament, then the Parliament would deal with life issues, then it would certainly be less politicised, less bribed, then the state would probably be decentralised soon, then there would be a fair redistribution of budget money, and perhaps then it would live better. I said maybe, because what's the crisis I doubt this country will live better in 2009 or 2010 than we do today. But if we had that, then MPs would be institutions or institutions, and they wouldn't be mere numbers. But when we talk about this law now or this set of three laws should be on the ground. What you have to say is, let's be honest, this suits everyone. Maybe without these standards, you could do the best IDS, we need it for something else. First of all, because of that minority problem that I will talk about later, but I am sure there is no political group that is sitting in this House today, and that the possibilities of this law will not profit you greatly. Whether it's HDZ, whether it's HSS, whether it's HSLS, SDP, clearly IDS, and especially the possibility of gentlemen using independent representatives. When it comes to this Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Parish and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, we see here that the number of votes needed is reduced, i.e. We see 50 signatures for the mayor's election of mayors, mayors and mayors, now prescribed for the mayor up to 10 thousand inhabitants of 200 signatures, over 10,000 residents of 500 signatures. A thousand signatures mean cities above 35 thousand inhabitants, so for a city of size, let's say one Pula, Zadar, Velika Gorica, Dubrovnik, etc. for the mayor, 2,000 500 signatures, and for the mayor of the City of Zagreb 5 thousand signatures. The best thing for us in IDS would be to keep everything the way it was, if those thresholds were something bigger. So someone who collects 50 signatures in some municipality, I don't know, in Motovun or Lupoglav, in the city of Buzet, for example, 200 signatures or what I know in one Poreč 500 signatures in the county of 2 thousand 500 signatures can be run. The jokes in the meaning of some of the pre-elections we're listening to are really funny. The man should only come with his stand in front of the Hotel "Fontana" in Buzet or at the market in Pula or in the market in Poreč, put the stand there, take out those forms as already prescribed, and if he has a business ability, clearly, if he collects 2,000 500 votes, if he is a minor, and a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, can run for any place. Clearly, if a man's desk has, say, 100 or 200 million euros, then if he can buy some television or radio journalists, and he has that, then he can be understandablely advantageous. But let's let it go now. Let me go back to this Law of Local Self-Government P.Z. No. 158. How many local self-government gentlemen will have deputies? I don't think it should be prescribed by law, but should be left to the statutes of our municipalities, cities, or counties. If there is no autonomy of a municipality, of a city, of a county, one word of the local self-government unit, or regional government, let it go now, then the entire local self-government is misery, misery and what. Of course, our citizens, the vast majority of them still think our municipalities or cities have those powers that municipalities had under the Constitution of '74. In one word, the mayor or the captain can solve all the problems of the individual. But now we can see that the municipal statute of one council can't choose how many deputies, commissioners, mayors, or mayors we'll have. Here they see de facto in this law two situations arise. I don't know why there was a debate first about whether cities of more than 10 thousand residents of two deputy mayors, and in small towns, let's say, once in Novigrad, Buzet, or what I know about Vodnjana is just one deputy. I know who took her, so for these cities above that, counting on something for a public appearance, etc. Someone also profited, okay, and secretly hoping that the proposal would pass, because if that weren't the case, this matter wouldn't have been unanimously included in the parliamentary procedure when we voted on it. I personally believe that this solution that we have today is fair for these cities over 10,000 inhabitants, but I think in the same way, it would actually be ideal if it were left to municipalities, cities up to 10,000 inhabitants, that they could also count on two deputies. Why am I saying all this? I'm talking first of all about, let's say this "specific position in which municipalities, cities and districts of Istria" are located. That's exactly what I'm saying about minority issues. You know that let's dare say 2/3 of Istrian cities bilingually. There or that standard, based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, took over their statutes. So that's the point. Secondly, why would anyone in this country know someone who is Italian, Hungarian, Serbian, etc. excluded from the possibility of participating in that executive authority. In Istria, in all the environments, almost all the environments I said, the principle of bilingualism was incorporated, and why should it now, for example, be put in place? When I mentioned it in a Vodnjan, we were supposed to be left without, say, a deputy chief of the Italian community. Of course that's not gonna happen. But what if the mayor of Vodnjan were, say, Talia? It wouldn't be unusual for me. It is clear that the elections there will be won by Mr Vitasovic, but this law almost denies that in units of local self-government in which most of the Croatian nationality is, it means that it almost goes for the mayor to be a Croat. So it will probably be in 99% of the cases in this country, so it will be in maybe 95% of the cases in Istria, but in Istria it can be different, and I'm sure no one in Istria will create a problem. The problem is, let's say, the berlusconisation of the political scene, but not this, whether someone will be of the Italian or some other nationality if clearly in the direct elections, that someone gets the trust of the citizens. Therefore, my proposal, the IDS proposal, is that this issue is regulated by the statutes, and that the law requires that those standards known to the Constitutional Law be incorporated into the provisions of our local statutes. That should be the key. The second question is the second question, i.e. whether or not someone will perform the duties of the mayor or mayor professionally. That question would be relevant if we didn't have gentlemen this absurd law on preventing conflicts of interest that is in force today. I don't know if this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest applies beyond Istria and the city of Rijeka, but that law I'll say once again is ridiculous. He should not have taken effect during the course of the conduct of the duties of the existing members of the chieftains. Unfortunate media is what I watch with the Istrian police or journalists not the media but journalists now say that certain members of the headship are in conflict of interest, and they entered the heads of law three and a half years ago. They worked as a rule for nothing. I guess to the best extent possible. There are those, not the public, who thinks they're all criminals and thieves. For some of them, the mob and cars blew up because they stood up to them in their interests, and now they are, because they have some small, small-scale company where I don't know the dominant owners or some major co-owners just now they're in conflict of interest. It's just that gentlemen aren't normal. How come they weren't in conflict of interest three and a half years ago, and now in the last year, excuse me in the last half year or eight months until the election they're in conflict of interest. When I don't know, one journalist from "The Voice of Istria" says that in Poreč there's someone in conflict of interest then everyone thinks they're criminals, but he doesn't want to say that they entered this department three and a half years ago without being under quotes in a conflict of interest. It is clear, on the other hand, that the journalist will not say that their colleagues who compete each year for the place do not know the municipal chief, mayor or mayor are in conflict of interest that I believe an eclectic conflict of interest is due to the delinthology of the profession and everything else that an independent profession or person working in such a profession should be. How, on the other hand, when we talk about this law, the Parliament can change the rules in a half-term. I say it is not normal and please state secretary look at what is happening in some areas of local self-government, although I am sure that in the whole country we have the same situation, but nowhere is it so clear, it does not speak as it is said in the County of Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County, in the city of Pula, the city of Rijeka, Poreč, what I know of Opatija, etc. etc. Whether or not a single unit of local self-government is in a situation where there is no one under this new law that is not in conflict of interest. I almost dare say it's nowhere to be found. So this law that we can't follow apart from those that we're talking about in my court, no matter how much I know they're going to call me right now in some media is absurd. But on the other hand, yes, not to forget. If the state guarantees you a monopoly, if your former prime ministers may be shareholders, if the state has destroyed your competition and created you, if it has allowed you to have 100 or 200 million euros, then it is clear that you can also perform politically and some performance is no problem. But if you have any crumbs on the market there, then you can't do politics. All in all, I think it's just not right and that the same thing should be discussed. This is the question of this Article 11. Laws on trade societies, administrations, supervisory committees, pardons, trade associations of this Law on conflict of interest, etc. etc. The other thing I'd like to say here is that it's not good, it's not good that anyone thinks we're building Pharaoh's day from the mayor. I'm nobody else to say that a commercial that our former colleague participated in, and I think that's what Mrs. Shuica is right about, because I know there's no party that won't take advantage of the start of IDS to all the others who are participating in the public life of the Republic of Croatia today, and most of all, as I said, independent lists if they are independent at all. To the end like I said before. We may have, perhaps we in the IDS at least for that, but we'll understand that as well as everyone else. But it's far more important for me to have the state clearly decentralised, radically centralized, to strengthen these fiscal capacities of local self-government, to return to some parts of the '74 model. years of how these local self-governments were then formed. At that time, almost 60% of the fiscal capacities were held by the municipality. That's when we had the biggest growth, maybe the highest standard. Then we developed quickly, and after that, we broke clear. But so I don't tell the truth to the end. I know it's not logical to expect it today in 2008 but that's why at least these crumbs about the election of chiefs, deputy mayors and mayors, mayors, etc. Leave it to municipal, city and county statutes. For the end of two more sentences that we talked about before these points. We need to be real, start dealing with life's affairs, not maybe spend that much time on these marginalities. The world is ahead of recession, the crisis will not bypass Croatia. The 2009 budget won't be bigger than this one. We watch the shipbuilding of 10,000 people de facto work in shipyards worth only one kuna. The price of money will be increasing. The state will be harder to borrow abroad. The funds are at stake. The banks are safe and that's good. The euro will grow, etc. And you'll live to be harder. So once again, open the gentlemen's eyes and face these real problems, and let some of these marginalities be dealt with by local self-government, not that we spend hours and hours discussing something that no one in this country will ultimately benefit from.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17863	Thank you. We've got corrections. First Mrs. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17864	Here is mainly truth and accuracy, however, one inaccuracies were stolen by colleagues of Cain when he claimed that such a bill with an increased number of mayors corresponded to all. That's not true. It's an incorrect claim, and it's a dangerous claim. That would mean we're all the same in the end. And that would mean that changes are nothing and never possible, which is also not true. SDP's not responding. That's what my colleague Mršić was talking about. After all, you need to take a look around, and how much is that gonna cost? It's a new expense for taxpayers, for citizens. ... And in that concept, and in that concept... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come on, take it easy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And in that concept it should be observed. That, besides being here and being told we don't know and that doesn't suit us under what conditions, how many will it be? Well, we can't give in to the interpretation of a very creative colleague, Palaric. It must also be written in the law because his interpretations we've heard a lot and the Constitutional Court has something to say about it. We've been waiting five years for him to say something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17865	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17866	Well, I'd like to correct the quote of fellow Caine who, when he spoke about the introduction of another deputy in municipalities, cities and counties, claimed that this would benefit everyone. I really don't think that's going to do anybody any good. He simply wants to use party oligarchies such as on behalf of the IDS, and I said he would benefit them, but the citizens of this country will not benefit because by introducing direct elections with the candidate for the leader and one deputy just wanted to go towards reducing the existing number of deputies, reducing costs and abolishing the headship. In this way with the introduction of two and somewhere three deputies are actually introduced to a small door by informal chieftains who really have nothing to do with the direct choice model. So I'm sorry the IDS are going to use this situation and use it but it's really no use to the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17867	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17868	Well, you didn't come from the HNS, you fell from Mars.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17869	Correction Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17870	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's in my colleague Caine's discussion with a lot of these things I can agree with. But with two, I can't. One was corrected by her colleague, Ingrid Antičević, and that's that it suits everyone. The SDP has proposed and suggests that it should not be in the way it is now defined. And the second is that it's fair to those tens of thousands and more residents. I don't think it's fair that what with the existing costs that they have and which you've noticed is that next year we're going to be in an even harder situation to cut costs, we're going to reduce a whole series of cities that have 10,000 inhabitants, something a little bit more about that about 30 grand, 30 million kuna budgets, that's where they're going somewhere, impose the costs in one salary of an additional deputy mayor who's going to be about one or two percent of that city's budget. So that's not fair. This will burden the budgets of these local units and regional self-government. So here's the correction I'd say.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17871	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17872	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, so first of all, when it comes to this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government, I would like to say first that the Proposer, in his explanation, states that there have been undetermined shortcomings that are corrected by this law. Of course, after such a finding, there is a question of how long it took to remove these shortcomings because at this moment we must remember the process of adopting this package of laws that regulate elections for local and regional self-government units. The debate on these laws was concluded in May 2007 and was adopted on 5 October 2007. So I just remind myself that during the debate and in the period until this law was passed in October a year ago, that the club of representatives of the HNS and some other clubs and the Association of Cities and municipalities had warned about the shortcomings of this law, but the promoters did not pay attention to it, and even now even after a year, I think I can say with full justification that, at this point, only the small things and the less important things are being corrected and are not entering into the essence of that law. It is also suggested that a large number of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and some smaller cities do not have sufficient financial capacity to have two elected persons on the payroll with existing employees in the administrative departments and services of these cities and municipalities, so it is proposed that the commissioners or their deputies decide whether to be professionals or not. We must take into account that the ruling majority has repeatedly rejected the CNS's proposals for fiscal decentralisation and therefore that no political will has been shown to implement this fiscal decentralisation precisely with the aim of making such municipalities and smaller cities more income than those they now have. So that's the kind of suggestion that comes as a miracle, and it actually brings us into a dilemma. As a cost rationalisation measure, it is therefore proposed that the Chief of Staff may perform his duties unprofessionally but at the same time he can hire new supervisors and new employees, and then he can and will certainly be a referendum on his shift or on the trust of the mayor, the mayor. So on and on and on. A series of examples where you can see that you don't get into the essence of the problem and that you don't solve the question of rationalization. In units of local self-government that have more than 10,000 inhabitants, another deputy is introduced, and under certain conditions where members of national minorities have the right to representation three deputies may appear. So in a little less than a year since this package of laws that regulates local elections took place, there has been an increase in the number of deputies to say so by 100%, and then I hope that it will not be cited as a reason to say that the reason is therefore in the crisis of global financial markets or US mortgages, because of course the truth is much simpler, it is simply necessary to admit and say that the coalition partners of the majority party simply do not have enough personnel potentials and especially in the larger environments that the combination of candidates for mayor and deputy guarantees certain election success. So these changes are certainly only going to create a mini coalition that should win the election success, and they are not going into the fundamental question, which is why one or two deputies. Of course, when we talk about two deputies, there is one problem that is not solved by this law. If the mayor ceases his duties in the year in which the regular elections are held, the deputy shall assume the conduct of Article 40a. Law on local and regional self-government. Of course, an immediate question is raised, which is of two deputies, because the law does not speak about it, so it remains to be resolved by the statute which will, of course, depend on the ratio of power in the representative body. But speaking of which, I think that it should certainly foresee when it is not regulated by law, that the question of the deputy mayor's status and the relationship between the mayor and his deputies, that this issue should be regulated by the statutes, because it is to assume that the mayor and his deputies will not be from the same party and that then the deputies must have their identity, must represent their own party, so the statute should resolve the very precise issue of relations between the mayor and their deputies. And I also think that another question that has not been settled here, which is a matter of status, I would say one amended status of the President of the Municipal or City Council or of the County Assembly, which in this system is certainly getting on greater importance, and again if the issue is not resolved by law to be dealt with by the statute and then, if the deputies can choose whether they are professionals or volunteers that one obligation remains also with the President of the City Council, the Municipal Council or the County Assembly. So it is certain that the application of these laws in the next period will also reveal a whole series of problems that are not visible at the moment, because these elections are first conducted under this one system and I think a lot will come into play during the implementation of these laws and such a system of electoral systems will come into light. I think it will all be so long as there is one practice of passing laws quickly to satisfy certain appetites or increase the chances of an election cycle and I will not say well at this time further, but I will say one more thing about the amendments to the Law on Elections of Mayors and Mayors and Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. In this proposal, amendments and additions shall only change the introduction of another category in the provision of the number of necessary signatures for the validity of the candidacy. A city with less than 10,000 residents is being introduced where 200 voter signatures need to be collected for the candidacy. It is clear that the promoters have realised that the previous limit of 35,000 inhabitants and 500 necessary signatures is inadmissible and unacceptable in small cities, so this firefighting measure to call it that, therefore, does not solve the problem entirely because the question is whether voters can support more bids by their signature or will be worth the current position from the presidential elections one signature, one candidate. I guess we'll see what kind of attitude the State Election Commission will hold on to on this issue, but if it stays in the interpretation, there will be disputed ones and I think even anti-constitutional situations. For example, according to the available data, the smallest municipality in Croatia has 137 inhabitants, and if we assume that at least 100 registered voters are among them and that all decide to support one of the candidates, which is hard to expect of course, for the candidacy and as far as possible to run two people. If more people decide to collect signatures for the candidacy, it is possible that no one collects the necessary 50 signatures, and there will be no valid candidates for the municipal chief. I would remind myself, of course, that the Constitution says that Croatian citizens have a general equal voting right with 18 years of age in accordance with the law, and on this example we see that it is not exactly so, so if I were to caricate things further so to the extreme, then that candidate who gets up early and sets up his own signing stand is ahead of that candidate who wakes up later, and not to mention again the possibility of abuse of the current municipal chief and abuse of signatures for candidacy. The same situation applies to a city that has an unknown 1500 or 1600 inhabitants, perhaps 1200 of whom are listed in the list of voters, and the 200 signatures limit makes it impossible for more than 6 candidates, assuming that all voters support someone's candidacy, which is, of course, very difficult to expect, again, and to make the matter more absurd, adding that it takes 20% of the voters enrolled to propose a referendum on the impeachment of the municipal chief, mayor and mayor. Then if you go back to that smallest community, it's 20 people out of 30 signatures less than it's necessary for someone's candidacy and now you don't count, you can imagine for yourself the rest of it all. Simply put, small environments were not taken care of enough, so the proposed amendments and additions to the law, however, were only one fire measure that would not solve this problem. And that's what it was about, and I think this article 2. The law supplementing the Law on Elections of the Mayors, Mayors and Mayors in no way is good, so there is something wrong with the formulation when it comes to the entry into force and I think it should in any case determine that the law enters into force on the eighth day following the publication of the "National Journal", and then this provision to apply the day of entry into force of the decision to call the first subsequent regular elections, I think they would then get a very clean and clear situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17873	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that it's past 12.43 hours to report 10 minutes. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17874	Mr. President, Mr. Representative has once again said the incorrect assumption that the reason for the two deputy appetites of the coalition partners. I want to say it's not true and I'll try to explain it. So anyone who's been acting or getting close to the mayor's or the mayor's office knows that the diapazon of jobs is so big that it's simply not possible for cities of more than 10,000 residents to behave without two deputies. And then you get into your own paradox in the next sentence when you say that the statute should regulate deputy jobs because it represents a party. No one represents any party, but the interests of the citizens and that's what the mayor and the deputy are doing. There's no division around the parties, and that's why I don't think Mr. Secretary of State should prescribe it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17875	And that's also an opinion, isn't it? And we have Mr. Arsen Bauk, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17876	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to correct Mr. Horvat's incorrect claim that he said he didn't care enough about the small environments. It would have been true if it hadn't been for the small environments at all. According to this bill, for the head of the Civilian Municipality, which has one hundred thirty-something residents or for the head of the Municipality of Zadvori, which has two hundred and a few inhabitants, it would take nearly half, more than half of the voters' signatures from those who would go to the polls. So you need more to run than to win. Also for the mayor of Komiza or the mayor of Vis, who has about 1900 inhabitants and about 1700 voters, it takes twice as many signatures for candidacy as is necessary for the mayor of the municipality, for example Popovec, who has about 9 or 10 thousand voters, therefore it was not taken care of those environments because it turns out to be easier to run for the president of the state than for the head of civil or mayor of Vis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17877	It's also an opinion. This becomes a practice in correcting incorrect allegations when it comes to representatives of clubs. So clubs, we should wait for individual debates, then replicas, etc. Thank you very much. It is the turn of the HSS club, Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17878	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As regards preparations for the first direct election of executives at local level in the Republic of Croatia, which are held in May next year in the provisions governing the issue of how the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor and their deputy professionally or without the establishment of a working relationship are governed by certain shortcomings which are corrected by this law. In fact, a large number of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, and also smaller cities do not have sufficient financial capacity to be employed in administrative departments and services, i.e. uniquely in the management department, have two elected persons on the payroll. The law therefore proposes that depending on the size of the units of local self-government by the number of inhabitants, and the possibility of a choice to choose a person himself decides that he will perform the duty to which he is elected. According to Article 2 of this Act, in units of local self-government that have up to 10,000 inhabitants, the municipal chief, the mayor and their deputy will decide whether or not the duty they are elected to perform professionally or without establishing a working relationship. While in units of local self-government that have more than 10 thousand inhabitants, large cities, cities of the centers of the county, or county mayor, mayor and mayor of responsibilities, their deputies will decide whether or not the duty they are elected to perform professionally or without establishing a working relationship. This changes the current article 90. The law on local and regional (regional) self-government which prescribed that the municipal chief, mayor, the mayor of their deputy duties were professional, and only the general act of the municipal council could determine that in municipalities up to a thousand residents the municipal chief and his deputy could carry out their duties without the establishment of a working relationship. Article 1 is amended as follows: Article 41 of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. That article found that the units of local self-government up to 10,000 inhabitants have one deputy municipal chief and mayor, and units of local self-government over 10,000 inhabitants, cities of county and county headquarters have two deputy municipal mayors, mayors, or mayors elected in the general and extraordinary elections according to special law. In addition, the same Article provides that in units of local self-government where members of national minorities are entitled to a proportionate representation in the representative body of the local self-government unit or where representation in the representative body is prescribed by the existing statutes of the local self-government unit and in units of regional self-government where the existing statute requires that the deputy mayor be of the order of members of the national minority, 1 deputy municipal chief and mayor, or the mayor must be of the national minorities, and which must be regulated by the Statute of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. In units of local self-government where members of national minorities make up the majority of the population, and members of the Croatian people have the right to a proportionate representation, one deputy municipal chief, or mayor must be from the ranks of members of the Croatian people, which must be regulated by the Statute of the unit of local self-government. If the elections do not leave the rights set out, additional elections will be held for the deputy municipal chief, mayor, or mayor. In the additional elections, when selecting the deputy municipal chief, mayor, or mayor from the ranks of members of national minorities, only members of the national minority who exercise the right to represent, or when selecting the deputy municipal chief, or mayor of the Croatian people, only members of the Croatian people have the right to vote. The execution of additional elections in local self-government units up to 10,000 inhabitants will be held by the municipal chief, i.e. the mayor will have two deputies, while in units of local self-government, more than 10,000 inhabitants will have the city seats of the county and county mayor, the mayor, or the mayor, will have three deputies. The amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government are in fact accompanied by a direct selection of municipal mayors, mayors and mayors who will be elected directly for the first time in the upcoming local elections in 2009. The importance of introducing a system of direct election of the executives of local and regional district units is unequivocally important both for the progress of democracy in general and for strengthening the decentralisation and strength of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The system of direct selection of the executive heads of units of local and regional regional self-government strengthens the responsibility of the elected to those positions and gives greater influence to citizens in the selection of leading people by obtaining the same arrangements within the parties and between them political corruption, the purchase of mandates and such similar things, and gives greater power to control citizens over the persons they directly and selected. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives Club and the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club therefore submit two amendments. Here, I'll just read it briefly. Article 2 is replaced by the following: "A new article 41a, which reads as follows: If it ceases the term of office to the deputy, the mayor, or mayor, will appoint the deputy person from the ranks of members of the representative body coming from the same political party, or the list from which the elected deputy to whom the term of office ceases, which the representative body confirms to the majority of the votes of all members. Explanation. The new article 41 allows larger, more than 10,000 inhabitants of local and regional (regional) units of self-government, two deputy executive heads. However, the municipal chief, the mayor, or mayor, may be left without a deputy during the term of office if he is relieved of his duties on any legal basis. However, the law does not provide for any possibility for a deputy to be replaced by a new term of office. This amendment proposes a solution to the replacement of deputies to end the term of office in such a way as to enable the municipal mayor, mayor or mayor to appoint a new deputy from the ranks of members of the presidential body, which comes from the same political party from which the term of office is and ceases. I Amendment 2, Article 40c is complemented by adding the word ‘in accordance with Article 24(3) of this Act’ at the end of paragraph 1. Explanation. The current text of paragraph 1 reads: "The voters listed in the list of municipal, city or county voters have the right to propose to the representative body a referendum on the matter of resolution of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor and their deputy." In that provision, no percentage of voters who may propose a referendum shall be prescribed anywhere. In the last paragraph of Article 40c, it is prescribed that the provisions of the referendum Act in other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authorities and local and regional regional self-government apply accordingly. But there is no provision in this law on the percentage of voters who can propose a referendum at local and regional level, it is only prescribed that the Croatian Parliament call a referendum if 10% of voters in the Republic of Croatia do so. Since there is a possibility of different interpretations of this amendment, this option seeks to be removed in a way that clearly states in Article 40c that voters can propose a referendum on resolution and, in accordance with the provision of Article 24 of the Law, where 20% of voters are required to do so. The Croatian Peasants' Club will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17879	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17880	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are talking about these laws because it is the result of the decision on the direct elections that we have made. So this is, say, a follow-up to that story. This is about the reconstruction of the executive government, so to speak. And in the reconstruction of the executive government, we strengthen the role of mayors and his deputies and, of course, with the burden of responsibility for the implementation, as someone here said, the interests of the citizens they represent. There were also talks here today about the reconstruction of local self-government. I agree that we also need that reconstruction, so the reconstruction of local self-government as a whole. I am aware, of course, that it can neither be well absorbed nor carried out within this item of the agenda. But I could join the idea that the story of local self-government with the idea of the reconstruction of this kind or that kind of species comes in and I'm aware, of course, that it's a difficult subject, that it's a serious subject and that it should be carried out in a completely serious way. Now something about this question that's on the agenda here today. First, this one or more so one chief or one or more deputies. We in the SDSS think it's a good thing, I would say even a necessary solution because in the reconstruction of the executive government, the executive, the mayor and those around it are being strengthened, I said, both from the point of view of the authority and from the point of view of responsibility. And if at that point it's getting stronger both ways, then you have to have more and more people to do it. I allow these variations to be with one or more, I allow it to be spoken of differently, but it seems to me that it is in principle, and it has to be set exactly the way it is. Especially since these people have to go through direct choices, and there goes that verification of civic support and then demand responsibility for such verification. The other thing I want to say here is somehow about it. This is where the dilemma is shown, so eventually, and here in the proposal, this dilemma is also shown through the formula I will or will not be a professional. In principle, the choice decision is professionally or voluntarily in place, but I am convinced that in the more important local units of this job you cannot even carry out the responsibility of volunteering. I suppose in that individual choice, people will more or less define themselves for the professional performance of that duty. I am inclined to conclude that, I repeat, in major local units, the law should stipulate that this duty should be carried out professionally. First of all, I mean from the point of view of responsibility for the duty that is being held in that place. The third thing that I'm going to explain here a little bit wider is what's called proportionate representation. It's tangling the minorities, but I think it has to tang the Republic of Croatia as well as us here. This is a relative representation or a minority member or a majority representation when in a minority position, but it is the same thing. What's the big deal? I want to be so precise, from what I think, exactly what I'm saying here. First, it is important to do so for the necessary participation in governance. And this isn't just about statistical representation. It must be possible, for example, for the minority of participation in governance because it is also about bearing responsibility for the environment in which we live together. Another thing that's important. This participation is important for better political and civic understanding and for people and for better and civic understanding of local environments. You can and can interpret this as a principled attitude, but it is also important for a number of such or similar examples in practice and for building better relations and political and civic and governance in that environment. The third is why it's important. It is important for the fair distribution of influence and responsibility for the situation on the ground. In environments where you have significant or less significant minority participation, I repeat these or those, that is the structure of both relationships and populations, and interests, and the view of the future that it must actually be made and that distribution of influences whatever they interpret. And the fourth thing that makes it important. That way, we'll get a better team together. People who are capable of carrying and developing and progress in that environment, because when you gather the best regardless of the name and last name, then you get the quality, you get the support of all citizens and you send a good message. I could count a few more, but that seems to me to be the reasons why they prefer what the law says with a proportionate representation in the executed hair in the local environment. Of course, when we talk about this structure of representation, that politically and politically speaking should take advantage of all the advantages that this diversity and offers and ultimately imposes, and also enables. Now, I listed this for the need to say why this participation and its consistent implementation are important. At this point in the position of looking at the SDSS, but even wider, I could say, that's where we have problems and I want to point them out. On the one hand, proportionate representation must be respected and I said a little earlier, positively exploited. In many environments, we have not read it as a chance, nor as a need, I will even say it as a legal obligation. We didn't respect it consistently, now I won't talk about the environments except in a positive sense in one place, but we didn't respect it for political election combinations in many cases and most of the time, and I think that's too bad. And that's what I'm saying here because of the criticism of the existing state and the desire to point out that this possibility of participation of joint responsibility is being used to the end. You know, Mr. Secretary of State, that in this respect we have some debts, some serious debts in the implemented Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. I'll just list a few things. One is the consistency of the statutes, the other is the doubt, and the arguments about which numbers are relevant, we haven't ended it either. The third thing is we also have an action plan that needs to end the practice of respecting the constitutional law or we are walking or we are at the beginning, but in any case we are not the need to end it. I'll say what I think should be considered. The first thing we must do is have a positive approach in this participation in concrete environments and in concrete political relations. What does that mean, a positive approach? This means to meet this need by participating minorities, and if possible, a step more than what the law prescribes. This is a gesture, it is a political gesture and it is a political message that can be useful for minorities, and even more for local communities, more for the Republic of Croatia. From this place, as you might say, I think here or I'm convinced we should give that kind of support. Just before I said in the implementation of the Constitutional Law there are certain distortions by interpreting what is written in the Constitutional Law, and then this obligation of minority participation is either trying to translate or we argue over a numerical basis where there is and where there is no right. This political pragmatism and this political feeling are lagging behind as I said we were going to meet it. I'll mention one example here. Independently on the statistics of the people who run the town of Obrovac, they agreed on a fine co-operation that meets better and political relations and has resulted in better development results. It's something that seems to me to be a good pattern and a good role model. I know that you'd go to a positive meeting, of course from this domain that I'm talking about, then you have to have a pretty broad trust, you have to start from creating mutual trust, sometimes we stick to it. Of course, I am not talking about the political will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia now, although that is also the place where it can be talked about. The lack of experience we have is lacking the necessary political will in many environments, and in fact this minority participation should only be used as, just because of prosperity and development and the atmosphere and better relations both civil and political in those environments that are concerned. And I know that this law makes assumptions about what I've been doing here a little bit troublesome about participation giving solid assumptions, I've said it here with dissatisfaction that this thing isn't working. Therefore, we will return to that question. I hope we're going to make more progress on that and get less and less back to the old story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17881	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17882	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So I want to correct the incorrect assumption that more deputies will contribute to the better functioning of local self-government especially if they are not defined by law as professionals, and by that logic, America would probably work better if George Bush had about a thousand deputies and not just one. The second thing I understand and I haven't been able to come forward with this proposal from Mr. Kelic that this is a proposal from HDZ and HSS clubs, obviously, then things don't work out. This isn't the law on direct elections. If he does, then the deputy deputy will be elected from the council. I therefore think that the secretary of state obviously did not properly formulate this law in copying certain drafts of the law, and apparently this law will not be adopted today by an urgent procedure. And in the end, I believe that national representation itself is a matter of direct elections is not the main element of this law and that all parties can propose candidates of all nationalities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17883	Thank you. I suggest we interrupt the session. We'll continue at 3:00. There are two other clubs. First of all, the HDSSB Mr. Boro Grubisic. Then HSLS, Mr. Antun Korushec. We'll continue at 3:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17884	Fellow Members and colleagues, honourable representatives of the motionary. I suggest we continue the work of today's session. On behalf of the HDSSB club, respected counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17885	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with associates and associates who have more than a representative in the Croatian Parliament, almost so it would be said this afternoon. I wanted to say that this bill does not bear the code "E" although many countries in the European Union have laws that regulate elections for local self-government and that we here state regional or regional, even though there is no R region, self-government and this applies to counties in the Republic of Croatia. I look forward to the day when we will be able to say that this is also about the Law on Elections for Regions in the Republic of Croatia, which is available in all countries as well as in the Republic of Croatia. But there is still the part not on the agenda of this Parliament, so administrative-government formation of regions and elections for regions, but whether it is still elections for counties, not for the area or the region. In any case, it is also welcome as a democratic gain of elections, direct elections for municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors in the Republic of Croatia. It would have been said long ago that our citizens, our electoral body, too, but this law, which has been passed, I would have said this to the generals of all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia, did not respect enough the specificities of certain municipalities and cities as already said here in this debate, mentioning the names of the municipalities of the citizens, some municipalities of Brač, and I would have mentioned in Slavonia the town of Kutjevo, which has a total of some 3 and a half thousand voters, and it takes 500 signatures to run for the mayor of Kutjev. That's one relatively large number. That is exactly the disproportionate that many before me have spoken of. So, the charm of our locals, the unit of local self-government, is difficult to mold or fit, would be said to be a law which is therefore clearly applicable to the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. In addition, the legislator seems to me to be of the belief that he is either predominant and departs from the poll's national exclusion position. Namely, when it comes to municipalities where municipalities, cities and counties where there is one to say the 15% threshold when the national minority does so, that number of voters. Or vice versa, when in municipalities with the majority minority population in relation to the Croatian population there is a majority, then it is introduced to say one instrument of potential additional elections. Therefore, it is assumed that in the environments in which such a situation is located, the head of the municipality, the city or county would be someone who is not from the majority, the national majority of the population in the municipality. Although I think there are geniuses in each of our own, thank God, the colourful national minorities and the majority people who could perform a duty even where this or the national minority or minority in the vast majority of which is a national minority can be one genius, one man respected by all the residents of that municipality can be the head of the municipality or mayor or mayor. I'm even thinking that somehow this law and these provisions are trying to establish one key, one that someone here said proportionate representation in the executive government is equal, so in a kind of quiet way we actually have elements of the positive discrimination that we talked about a lot about before during the parliamentary elections and how much we've actually arrived at in the introduction of so-called. positive discrimination with us in Croatia. That's why I say there are elements here. Now that you're looking at it, I'd explain it, so you're expliciting examples. When you look at the municipalities of up to 10,000 inhabitants or cities of up to 10,000 inhabitants in which it is determined to be one deputy mayor or mayor, if this is not achieved in the first round, there will be additional elections, and if it takes place in the first round or in the general elections, in which case some municipalities will have one, so there will be one chief and one deputy, and in some there will be one chief and two deputies. Right? As far as I know from this law, that's how it is. Now, how does that work? So in one municipality it will be like this, in another or that those who put people on lists immediately decide to place someone from a national minority, or from a minority in that community. We will have no national at all, but minorities in the municipality, the city or the county, so that it goes already in the general elections without additional elections. Is that how we got the directness expected by this election? By putting the first man, did we actually determine who would be the one from the national minority or minority that makes it there? Is that really direct? I don't think so. When referred to in Article 2 which has been the subject of a very heated discussion regarding professional performance, up to 10,000 municipalities or the city and more than 10,000 inhabitants. In particular, this applies to deputy mayors or mayors, and when it comes to the fact that up to 10,000 deputies can carry out a job professionally or without establishing a working relationship. We've had examples here, and now, here's Mayor Dubrovnik, Mayor of Djakova. They're all over 10,000 residents. In the Parliament, the Republic of Croatia is based on positive laws of the Republic of Croatia that allow mayors to be representatives of the Parliament, to be elected to the Parliament. I personally don't know, but I asked Mr. Vinkovic if he was here with a working relationship or in Djakov with a working relationship. He said he was in a working relationship with the Croatian Parliament. So, he gets paid by the Parliament, and the mayor's job is done, so I'd say, I can't say unprofessional but without starting a working relationship with the city of Djakov. I don't have the potential for Mr. Vinkovic himself, but there are a lot of commissioners in this House, so here's an example. I also don't know how Mrs. Shuica is, is it, or Mršić here. And Mršić, who complains so much. I think the job of the mayor or the mayor can be done to see how you've done so far. Does Mrs. Shuica have, whether the citizens of Dubrovnik, Koprivnica or Djakova have any objections to the work of their mayors? They don't, as far as I know, have, no matter what comes from different political options. But what I'm saying is that I would leave this professional performance alone for this reason, because of these situations, the possibility for both the mayors and the deputy mayor or the mayor to do it professionally or to perform it without establishing a working relationship, whether the city or the municipality is up to 10,000 inhabitants or over 10,000 residents. After all, it is said here that it is clear that this law to say suspended headship and municipalities and cities and counties. When we look at some of the savings that are created, when we see that all municipalities and cities, almost all municipalities and cities, and the counties have specifically developed good services, very many services, administrative departments, etc. I think the mayor, the mayor and the mayor of the municipality can play a large part in orderly their role, their task entrusted to them in these elections, with direct elections. According to which there are 150 employees in the management of the town of Broda, 150 employees in the County of Brod-Posavina or not to talk about the counties of Požeko-Slavonska, Vukovar-Srijemska, the cities of Vukovar, Vinkovci etc. Therefore, constantly moaning about heavy loads, etc. There's no need. There should be faith in professionals in the city administration, in professionals in the municipal administration or county administration and then there is no problem for the functioning of neither the city nor the municipality. Here I saw and on the benches came the amendments of some of here's the HSS and HDZ club. The clubs in the amendment 1st gentlemen of the HSS and HDZ are proposed when the term of office of the Deputy Mayor, Mayor or Mayor will then be appointed by the Deputy, the person from the ranks of the representative body coming from the same political party. And what if the person is impartial and there is no representative in the representative body I ask the gentlemen who have submitted this amendment. So here's the only question that brings to one dilemma, the question of the amendment's proposings to think about such an amendment a little bit. This referendum on possible trust to the commissioner, the mayor where 20% of voters' signatures need to be collected, it stands because it was not defined in earlier documents or in legal regulations. When I was talking about positive discrimination if someone thinks it is not so, then I must say that all members, so the citizens of one municipality, one city and county select the mayor, mayor and mayor, and in addition to this bill only members of the national minority or again Croats in municipalities with most other nation choose their deputy chief. So we're deciding about the Chief all of us, and the Deputy Chief is just one. I wonder if there's any such elements. ... Or should we all decide on this deputy chief who comes from a national minority? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in any case, this objection which I do not understand that this law enters into force on 18 May, the elections are 17, is it, by which law, elections are made, and when this law enters into force only on 18 May? I also wish that, here this may be the first step in the wishes of all of us, regardless of the party's membership to vote, we started from locals, so I will not talk about local and regional self-government because this area does not exist, but about elections in municipalities, cities and counties to get the same measure soon, the same archaic and the election of parliamentary representatives. And all this together, so I will not say the electoral law, but this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government with the Final Bill and the Law on the Selection of Assembly MPs to be covered by one electoral law on the selection of all, to say by officials and those starting from the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia to the least municipality and city in the Republic of Croatia, very precise and very transparently, so it is written that there is no confusion and there are no doubts which now, here is how speakers go out for a payphone. So, there are certain indiscretions that I've been talking about. So, I think that maybe if we were to align these laws, we should also make a new administrative and administrative map of the Republic of Croatia because of the very proportions we talked about when we talked about Pucists, citizens, Kutjevo,... This is where we come up with things that are absurd, the town of Pucisce, the town of Kutjevo, the municipality of Civilians who have 150, top 200 inhabitants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we speak, once again I will look back at this professional performance of mayors or the behaviour of deputy mayors and mayors then I must mention history and say that the town of Brod 70 years ago, 80 years ago had more than 10,000 inhabitants, far more than 10,000 inhabitants, and Mayor Brlic did not take his salary because he was strong enough and economically powerful and shared his salary for humanitarian purposes and he gave his entire mandate for humanitarian purposes. Also, if someone receives a salary in the Assembly, and the mayor is Dubrovnik, Koprivnica and Djakov or some others, I don't know any of them here, Jastrebarski, let's say Jastrebarski is absolutely certain that the municipality, or the town of Jastrebarsko, Jaski, would welcome some 30,000 kunas that Mr. Mayor Jasca would leave for humanitarian purposes or for some others, to say investments and which is why we have an obligation for the mayors of cities or municipalities of more than 10,000 inhabitants to be professionals in this material. And I'd like to mention something else about this. Since 2001, our mayors are no longer part of the state administration, but the law remains that they cannot be parliamentary representatives. What is different is that the mayor of Rijeka or Split who has nearly 200 thousand inhabitants can be parliamentary representatives, and the ship-Posavina mayor who manages the county of 160, 170 thousand cannot be a parliamentary representative. Neither of them have anything to do with the state, to say in some way with the state administration according to the 2001 laws. Is it party or political oligarchy within the parties that decided to keep it that way? Have some people in parties, no matter who, the one on the left or on the right, determined that it cannot be changed and why it cannot be changed? As to me, let's go to some doctor and I won't tell the layk really, and I see and most citizens don't think it's a good time to think thoroughly about all three of these laws that are united today and about the electoral law and we get one, to say a precise, strong electoral law that all units of local administrations and self-government, including the Council of the Republic of Croatia, in which the State Election Commission and Mr. Secretary of State and the structures in charge of passing such laws, and that these are actually electoral laws, nothing else. These are election laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17886	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS Club, HSU, distinguished representative of counterpart Antun Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17887	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, this set of laws has really drawn attention to what is appropriate in view of their importance, and given the passage of time, for the length of time, I will really keep myself in my presentation on behalf of the HSLS and HSU clubs only on those things that I think are important and important. In the beginning, I would like to say that the HSLS and HSU Club supports the urgent procedure for all three laws precisely by respecting the fact that citizens for the first time directly elect their municipal heads, mayors, mayors, mayors and their deputies. We consider this a valid reason precisely for sufficient time and for the necessary time to be able to make quality preparation for the conduct of these elections. And there's one more thing I'd like to say is why I think an emergency procedure is justified. As soon as we have a particular problem on this Assembly, which requires urgent resolution, numerous speakers and a number of reasons why this is being challenged, but at the same time on the other hand, and we are talking about how the immediate selection of mayors, mayors and other functions has already been resolved. So, and that's another reason why all three of these laws have to go into emergency procedures. I also find it a good solution to remove the shortcomings seen before the first direct elections by the executive at the local level in Croatia. And they remove it in a way that we have received from the local environment opinions, views, remarks, suggestions, that we have seen that certain solutions that we have proposed are not good enough, are not what we wanted them to be. And such an approach to solving the problem before a concrete act of choice, if we have seen somewhere that we can improve a certain legal provision, a decision, in my opinion deserves all praise, not a conviction. And that's why I dare say on behalf of the club that both the Government and the Secretary of State who had this sensitivity to listen to local community objections, to install them into a new legal solution and give up something before the local elections when we haven't yet taken concrete action, and then we'd have solutions we wouldn't be satisfied with. That kind of approach, I'll repeat it one more time, deserves commendation, not any conviction. And financial opportunities and insufficient financial resources and capacity of municipalities and smaller towns in Croatia, the proposed solutions that we now have in front of us impose as a necessity and as a necessity. As proof of this claim, I will give you the information that by counting from all budgets of the county, so only the county in the Republic of Croatia for 2008 and the expenditure for members of the executive bodies, I have come to the financial data that reads: its height is 21 million 296 thousand and 205 kuna. And only for the Bjelovar-Belova County is that expenditure of 600,000 kuna. Proposed solutions where we have the option to choose the chosen persons to decide how to perform their duties. Performing a duty without chieftains is a good solution, they represent adequate exact, financial savings, and however we calculate and whatever approach we come up with to calculating and exact mathematics. And that justifies the principle of this electoral legislation, which is the principle of financial savings, efficiency, rationality and economics in making decisions that are relevant to the functioning of the public sector. The important news is also the number of deputy municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors depending on the size of self-government units. On behalf of the club, I welcome the solution that there is one deputy in units of local self-government that have up to 10,000 inhabitants, or the mayor, and in units with more than 10,000 inhabitants, in cities that are county headquarters or counties that have two deputies. I cite the principle that, from my point of view, I reject politically and personally all those who have spoken here about some kind of political trade that is possible through this electoral legislation. I cite an example of Belovar where two deputy mayors or mayors have been functioning for seven years since 2001. And that is, gentlemen, in a way that from 2001 to 2005, one deputy mayor was from the SDP, from 2005 to 2009, so in the current term, one deputy mayor is from the HNS ranks. There is no political trade, because before the elections an agreement was made, the coalition was agreed, the elections went together, the goals set. We've managed to bring together people around the program, people who can carry programs. All together escorted one mandate mostly successful, without any political trade, if someone from that coalition had left, left or was expelled to get someone else in and in such a way as to be deceived by the voter's will. The same happens in the current term. Political trade in new legislation is absolutely impossible because it goes to the list, goes to the mayor, mayor, deputy with its deputies and has no new choices for now, according to the current solutions of the possibility of someone getting involved in a way to deceive the voter's will so that we can incorporate someone on that list who would perform that function. Political trade can only be after the election results, and cannot be before the election results, before the elections. And that's where I want to tell everyone, let's look ourselves in the eye and let's not just point our finger at a state-level coalition that's supposed to have an interest in some kind of political trade, and others who have been involved in that same principle for the past seven years are excluded from it. There is no political trade and the proposed legislation, however, significantly lowers that possibility, if it is already not entirely impossible in relation to previous legislation. What is this principle that is in these three laws, what does it offer? It offers and guarantees a more efficient, cheaper and rational overall system of functioning of all units, all in the function of achieving the rights and interests of citizens and the interests of entrepreneurs. Actually, I have to say from my experience, I come from Bjelovar, I'm mayor of Bjelovar, that serious access to business in the city of that size and with the financial resources of the budget that it actually has is the inevitable that it has two deputies. Anything else would be an irresponsible approach to the projects, to the voters, to the budget funds, or to the work we do. In conclusion, there may be a lot to talk about, but in conclusion, I would like to say that the new model of the local political system is much more democratic than the current one, providing greater stability and security to the executives. Such solutions, I dare say, are in the interest of all political parties in the most positive sense because they guarantee financial savings, efficiency and destruction of bureaucratic barriers, rationality and democracy. Therefore, the HSLS and HSU Representatives Club will support all three of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17888	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, a respected colleague, Nenad Stazic, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17889	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Whenever the debate here so far pointed out that this bill actually allows for a wider trade between coalition partners, HDZ representatives reacted extremely nervously claiming that this is not the real reason for this law, but that the real reason for the scope of the jobs that are supposed to be so large that the mayors must have two deputies. As one authority the mayor specifically pointed out is a colleague of Shuica who, I think, reacted three or four times correcting a false claim about the commercial nature of this law. I am now wondering how in two readings a year ago neither Suica, nor Deputy Prime Minister Djurdja Adlesic, who is also mayor, noticed this failure. Interestingly, we discussed it twice, and no one thought that the extent of the mayor's affairs would be so great that he would need to be introduced by another deputy. Why didn't my colleague Shuica notice it when she first read it? How come she didn't notice that flaw? It makes sense that she didn't notice a flaw because she didn't have anything to notice, because there's no shortage. No scope of business here is a reason to change the law. So the fig leaf falls, so the fact remains that it's only about feeding a hungry coalition mouth, and that coalition mouth is not hungry for a better life for citizens in local self-government. No, they're a hungry function and a chair, so to make that possible then there's another deputy. It will now be easier to agree on a coalition with two coalition partners, as it will be possible to offer two replacement seats. These people will cost something if they work professionally, and it is up to them to decide whether to work professionally or not, so if they decide to work professionally, they will burden the budget of the local self-government unit. For as much as their salary will be, less local roads will be able to be built, less local sewers, local plumbing, but that is not of interest to the legislator. He's interested in arresting another coalition partner. That's the only reason to change this law. The proof that it is so, that the law did not predict at all what happens if the deputy ceases his term of office. Then who's going to do this vast range of business that my colleague Shuica is talking about. If it were a very large range of jobs, so I guess the proposer would think of it and invent some way, he would have built a modus into the law how we're going to find this substitute man now that this big range of jobs that the mayor and one deputy don't get to do, he's doing someone instead of the one who gives up. The promoter didn't think of it because it's not a problem, because it's a big job that actually doesn't have a job. Well, then we found here now on the table of amendments proposed by the HDZ and HSS Club, a very strange and somewhat comical amendment. What does he suggest? He suggests that the second deputy deputy be found from the council. Be careful, the promoter does not care that this first one is elected in the direct elections and that, under the new law, according to the new idea of the new law, neither the principal mandate nor the deputy mandate comes from the council, but from the direct elections. No, that principle is now being pushed aside and will now suddenly be taken out of the council by the second deputy deputy, saying he must be out of the same political option. Wait, wait, wait. So what if that deputy was a non-partisan person, from which political options they would find him. It's an inconclusive amendment. And the interesting thing about that amendment is that what he's saying about the promoters, they're proposing a joint amendment because they don't trust each other. They want to make sure. The HSS wants to ensure that if his deputy detachs accidentally, that the HDZ who has the chief will not cheat but must select this second replacement from the HSS and vice versa. So they propose an amendment that has nothing to do with the spirit and the letter of the law, which is from a whole other story, because they don't trust each other. Everything in this law is more or less, in this proposal the amendments to the law are inconclusive. If we introduce another deputy who is unnecessary for municipalities over 10,000 inhabitants and cities over 10,000 inhabitants, it would be logical to introduce him in order for municipalities, larger municipalities, but then for all cities. That would make sense. Because if someone gave him the status of the city somewhere, I guess he knew why he was giving him the status of the city. Well, the city isn't just a community, the city has some functions that the municipality doesn't have. So if there's already an increased range of jobs, then there are in all cities. Well, if it had gone in that sense, at least some principle would have been detained if nothing else. At least that fig leaf would be a little bigger. I'm not going to talk about the date clapper. That's where Mršić was talking about on behalf of the club. Not knowing when elections will be held, so it is written that the law takes effect the day after the elections are held, means that it cannot be applied at all on the day of the election. It shows one sloppyness, one sloppyness in law-making, but when it comes to this government I have to admit that it's a chronic disease, we're already used to laws coming but completely messy. But I wonder why that 17th and 18th of May should have been written in the first place. So be careful before you prepare the election you should conduct the candidacy. The law under which deputies are elected directly will enter into force on the 17th and this amendment a day later on 18th means that preparations and candidacy will be passed by this law that will not yet enter into force. So they'll be so illegal. Was it hard to write that the law would take effect on the day of the local elections? Yeah, but that's not what the proposer was sitting down because it didn't matter to him. It was important for him to meet coalition partners in the process and for the changes. It's the only thing that was thought of, nothing else. When it comes to minority deputies, it is difficult for a man to be surprised at the solution. The law says the deputy must be of minority order. And what if the Chief is elected from the ranks of that minority, the law says nothing? The deputy has to. So regardless of being elected chief of the minority or not, the deputy has to be. So now suppose a minority chief is elected, additional elections will be held, the law says he must be a deputy. Was it hard to write a deputy will be selected if the minority is not selected? But that's not what's been taken care of. The solution Mršić proposed simply cannot run in such environments. The list is not accepted. The election commission does not accept a list that does not include a deputy, elected together with the commissioner, if it is not of minority order, that is, from the ranks of the Croatian people where the Croatian people represent a minority in a local self-government unit. It's a simple solution, so there's no additional choices, it's all clear. And we don't have a third deputy, so watch this for the third deputy because of the huge amount of business that my colleague Shuica is talking about. None of it was made. This law brings unnecessary changes, and those needed to be resolved, the relationship between the commissioner and the council has not been resolved. What does the law say if the council doesn't get him a budget? The body of the state administration will disband the council and appoint a commissioner who will replace whom, the chief must remain, he is directly elected. So the commissioner will replace the council, then the commissioner, in the role of the council, will accept the budget the mayor proposes. The relationship between the council and the commissioner was not resolved at all, so at least you took the Slovenian model, so you copied it there was much smarter to solve it. What happens when the council doesn't accept the budget? It should have been remembered that the Slovenians were conducting this election and a little bit there peeking into those laws. As no systematic relationship between the commissioner and the deputy has been resolved. Watch what could have been done. They are directly elected, they have the same mandate and have been elected together on the same ballot. And that you introduced a model by which when the deputy stepped down because he couldn't agree with the chief, because this marginalized him to go to the elections both because they were elected together. No, you didn't predict such a solution at all, but you try it with this radical amendment that will probably accept you, because it's no better than the whole of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17890	We've got a line before, dear colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17891	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Stazic that two times some of them didn't notice the problem in the law. Four times. Because the same model of direct elections was debated by Parliament four times in the last term, twice on the government's proposal, twice on the proposal of one club, but if you remember the fierce and in this decision of the current law under which the Government's proposal also made provision for the mayors and mayors and units with more than a thousand inhabitants to be professionals. We asked them to change that part, and they said they insisted that it remain, and the only thing that is true is that from the field came to this provision the greatest part of the remarks, and only in that part is that the field, or association, warned of the illogical nature of that legal solution. But watch out now comes the amendment of the HDZ Club and the HSS under which a lot of hidden formulations introduces a restriction or obligation that an initiative to call a referendum for the replacement of the mayors, mayors and mayors should have a third of the electoral body, a third of the voters' signatures entered in the voter list. I don't know where in the world there is and again I warn you that such a provision means that for a self-initiative for a possible referendum it will require more voter signatures than in the elections should get votes in order for someone to be elected mayor in the second round. Indeed, such provisions do not exist in any democratic state in the world, that an initiative on non-trust requires a greater number of electoral bodies, rather than a choice. And the last time it was pulled between the first and second reading, now at the small door is through an amendment that is not even detailed, you're trying to push it into the law again.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17892	Replica response, MP Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17893	I've seen fellow Lesar that amendment, the second part of the amendment, and I don't find it strange, I don't find it strange. It is perfectly logical for me that the proposings make it difficult for the conditions for a referendum to be called. They obviously want to achieve one goal, that when I give you two deputies under this system to form a coalition, so we can win the principal's seat, then be such a chief no matter what he does, what he does, he's practically not being replaced. This is entirely in the spirit of this amendment and in the spirit of the intensity of the proposings and the laws and amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17894	We have two reports of correction of the quote. First of all, she's a respected colleague of Deepravka Shuica's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17895	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to correct a whole series of incorrect allegations, and I'm going to look back on one, which is that they want to feed the hungry coalition mouth, which is not true. That's what I want to tell you here again today. I was not in the Parliament when the last term of office was discussed in the first reading in this law, and now I was also not present in this term, so I did not answer. So we're not introducing two deputies, we're introducing two deputies and now there are two deputies and I'm just from experience saying that two deputies are necessary and that's the only reason why I'm having this discussion today. So today we have two deputies and you're very cynical about our work by saying it's a big job, as you put it. It's a really big job and a very tough job and it's different from town to town. I speak from the experience of my city which is a small town with only 45 thousand inhabitants, and maybe it has jobs like a million-dollar town. And that's why I'm saying that two MPs are necessary, it has nothing to do with the coalition or the partners, but from your explanation, it seems like you've already made up that you won't get any MPs, so you're worried about what any mayor has done to me, so you're worried that we're worried about what we're gonna deal with the coalition partners. So much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17896	Thank you very much. The second application for correction of the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative of counterpart Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17897	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It refers to the same assumption that they want to feed the hungry coalition mouth with this proposal, i.e. the introduction of another deputy institute and that it is an unprincipled proposal ahead of us. Namely, neither of them are true. After the chieftainships fail to function, or they do not become, it is certain that there is a great need in larger cities, and I would even say perhaps we could bring that border down. Perhaps we could also bring it down for some other municipalities and cities that have slightly larger territories, because once the headship disappears, it is absolutely certain that there is a need to retain two deputies, as already said here in the debate and apparently that your lack of understanding for local self-government jobs while at the same time seeking to decentralise certain functions and even more burdensome local self-government. Obviously, you don't know what you want or what you're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17898	Keep going. Dear counterpart Krunoslav Markovanovic appeared for the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here are the respected representatives of the State Secretariat, colleagues and colleagues here we learned just before such a significant thing that the law was written for coalition partners and now I'm looking for, I'm looking at it a little bit, so maybe it's not, but what's clear and understandable here is that it's hard to be without a coalition partner. I can understand a party that doesn't win the election, can't find any coalition partners and wants to come to power thanks to the morbid exposure of the party president and the case of the murder of a young girl. So I get that. Well, that's not our fault. What's proposed here, there's a lot of good things. And this whole debate, I think, also contributes to a little bit of telling media representatives, journalists that actually this House doesn't accept every law without discussing how it wants to be shown, that Parliament is just some kind of voting machine, but that we talk a lot about every law. We say no matter which party we belong to, we say what we think is wrong, and in the end, a series of amendments can improve some things. It's clear in every law to talk about what would happen if it were here too. Here are a number of people who came from local self-government who know countless examples where perhaps this law has not been resolved in detail and there is no reason not to do so now. The fact is, by this law, we suggest that here we can start with that if we have two deputies. So for cities and municipalities over 10,000 inhabitants. I think that's good. Here again, I admit it will come to terms, there will be an expression of the coalition, it is certain and perhaps just as these coalitions will prevent no matter who is in the coalition to repeat the elections, to go on, to go again because they will not be elected mayor, mayor or mayor or mayor or mayor, or mayors, mayors and so on. So maybe it's one way to cut costs a little bit because elections could be quite expensive by repeating exactly the election because I don't believe that in many places in the first round, the mayor, or the mayor, or the mayor, will win the election. So there's no headship. The possibility of a deal is provided. And in that agreement, I don't see anything wrong with the division of power, so I don't see why it's so bad. A team before because the costs will be reduced because they won't be, I'm talking here for local self-government units, there won't be a headship. And the headship has its price. So, instead of headship, the chieftain, the mayor, the mayor and the deputy mayor, they mostly take on the responsibility of me. The fact that my opinion is so that under 10,000 residents should also have a professional or mayor of chiefs because in small areas there are few employees and people want to talk, they can come and talk to whoever you want from the employees in the end and look for the mayor again because they think that what they agree with him is just like that. And a man who's not professional there can tell you that always or people complain because he's not around when they're looking for him or whatever he's doing outside of his working hours who works somewhere else has to stay somewhere near their voters because people say again they want to talk to the top. So if we're talking about changes, I think about numbers, a little bit about this number, namely I've always said that we don't really have to share cities and municipalities. There are small towns, extremely small towns and very large municipalities. And if we're talking in numbers how many signatures should be collected then we should say for the municipalities and cities up to that and that number so much and so much, under that number so much and so much because it turns out now that actually one is privileged primarily by the municipalities at the expense of cities. There's no reason for that number not to be even, so here's the thing, and I'm asking if that's still possible, I think there's going to be an amendment that has to be evened out. Because it's a job that's going to have to do the signing of each other in cities and municipalities, and there shouldn't be any difference. As far as the city of Zagreb is concerned, everything is normal that the business of the mayor will have to take over a lot of it from the headship but as in all other cities and municipalities, stronger teams will have to be clearly created because regardless of the underestimation of the work of the mayor, mayor, mayor, mayor, I think that today and the mayor, mayor and mayor must be managers. Because at the end of the line, it's important both in the second and third cases that we need to fill the budget and make good use of that budget. If that's not the case where, especially where there's disagreements, where there's a lot of indecisive ones then the budget is spent, or the budget is spent on the wrong things and so on. What's for sure, I agree with all my colleagues, the relationship between the leaders and the council and the assembly in the county that's going to be a lot of trouble, that's for sure. We're a little used to the usual mayor, the mayor, the mayor has the support of the majority in his units of local self-government and it worked pretty well. However, there is a great possibility here that there will be no mayor, mayor of the same party as may be the majority of the council, and I have little regret to admit that we did not leave that criminal part for the council that if the council provokes a referendum for the mayor, mayor or mayoral assembly that he is not actually being punished here. This will not be punished and it is a shame because here it can happen that each, that repeated several times during the term of such a referendum, will go money, the money will be spent actually because the referendum is as expensive as the elections, on something that actually these money should not be spent. So the laws are good anyway. We've discussed this a lot. I think with some minor changes or solving what may not be detailed in these laws, it's better to write a few more details, so there'll be less dilemma later and I think we can accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17900	Thank you very much. Now we have an orderly first application of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative of counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17901	I signed up for a correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17902	Then the license plate was turned to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. But, well, you picked it up, so we'll accept it, correcting the quote. But before that, let's get to the replicas first. Okay? Let's go. Thank you very much. We have two applications for the replica, distinguished colleague Nenad Stazic. Democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17903	I contacted my colleague Markovinović with a replica to give you the opportunity to answer what I see you are using right away, because I do not want to behave like your colleagues Šuica and Matušić, who are replicating from the simple but easily understandable fact that they do not expose the danger of reply to the replica. You say in your statement, in fact you admit that the reason for these changes is easier to coalition and say, “I see nothing wrong with coalitions.” I agree with you here. There's nothing wrong with coalitions. However, it is bad that these coalitions are made easier in such a way that the money for the salaries of these deputies will be withdrawn from the budget of the local self-government units, so there will be less money for projects. And citizens don't care about the functions or the chair of politicians. They're interested in asphalt, electricity, water, health care, education. That's what they want to know. Will units of local self-government be able to make some kind of football, some kind of a small football field that children have a place to play football, not whether the parties will be able to make it easier to collage on the burden of their money. Therefore, the coalition, yes, indeed, is. But let the coalitions come together so that the coalition partners agree which, from which the party's prominent chiefs, the other party will support it in a coalition way. But why make it easier for me, or for you who are proposing, to facilitate coalition agreement on the burden of the citizens themselves. Why should they pay easier to negotiate politicians? That's what we're complaining about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17904	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of colleague Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17905	Well, I've got to tell my fellow intern that I didn't say that I admit the law because of it. I'm saying it allows the possibility that this law is happening and that's what's happening. That's right, isn't it? So there isn't. I personally don't have much experience in coalitions because here it is since '93. So to this day, where I am, we're never any coalition. But I believe that coalitions can function and it's good that coalitions are, that elections can be repeated, and that's what you're attacking your colleague and colleague to correct the wrong allegations. Well, I'm generally more concerned with correcting the wrong assumption because I'm correcting the truth. And if I go to the replica, then I hear it one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17906	Thank you. And now let's hear the correction of the false quote of a distinguished colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for giving me the chance to correct the incorrect allegations despite the wrong turn of this tile, because I rarely use it because I don't like to correct incorrect allegations. I prefer to use the replica. However, this was indeed such an incorrect allegation that I had to correct it. So, a fellow MP spoke with nothing about the morbid exposure of the party president and exploiting the tragic fate of a girl to come to power. Therefore, the SDP president's speech at the previous session was not morbid but clearly, critical and focused on creating conditions for better functioning of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian government, which are currently burdened with the inefficient authoritarianism of the current prime minister. The SDP does not use anyone's tragic destiny to come to power, because it has a program and people who have only one goal – it is the interest of all citizens of this country regardless of which party they belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17908	Thank you. There was little correction, there was little presentation. But that's why we now have another application for the replica, dear colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17909	Thank you, Mr. President. Not only was the SDP leader's statement morbid, but he was politically immature, but he was politically immature. So immature that he also caused reactions in the wider Croatian public, but we will leave it to them and their political struggle because at a time when he really needed a consensus on some key issues in Croatia such as fighting organised crime, such as fighting the mafia, when a consensus of all political parties was expected, unfortunately, that situation was used in one other direction, which is politicisation and politics related to such a tragic case. But let's go back to this topic that's really very important. I agree with your thesis that this law, the amendment proposal, will make it easier in some way and coalition. Because indeed, apart from making it easier to coalise, he will also save in city and municipal registers because we all know that membership in the headship also costs, a certain amount is also foreseen in each budget. Now there will be a much smaller team more which is likely to be a second deputy volunteer, because this is the most likely option to use in order to respond more effectively to all of the daily tasks that exist in the city, and at the moment when there will be no more headship. I also want to say that this proposal is very necessary and that it will bring good to the political scene of Croatia, because by facilitating the coalition, it is also easier for citizens to have their ideas through various political parties and various political options and to realise.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17910	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17911	Thank you. Well, at least let someone shine there. I'd just like to say that if we're talking about expenses, and all the time, they're going to the first plan of the deputy's expenses, and so far they've all had deputies. But the cost will be reduced, I repeat, to the headship. The headship had its price. However, some fees were also received by all members of the headship who were not employees. So I don't see any increased costs. And what concerns the speech of counterpart Milanovic in the desire to take over power, I guess revolutionary roads, is not possible otherwise, I must say that most of the media, even prone to the SDP, have just written that. And what I said is just a summary of what's been written in the last few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17912	Thank you very much. It's time to discuss a distinguished colleague named Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. What, then, does the Government propose these amendments to the law? First, in municipalities and cities up to 10,000 inhabitants, we have a deputy chief and a deputy, and in municipalities and cities greater than 10 thousand, in cities of county and county headquarters we have mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors with two deputies. But there is also a provision that in municipalities up to 10,000 inhabitants and one and the other can be either professionals or volunteers, in order for municipalities and cities larger than 10 thousand inhabitants to go by the provision that the mayors, mayors and mayors must be professionals, and the deputies themselves decide whether they will be professionals or volunteers. Contrary to one such sudden enlightenment a year ago, the government insisted that all the mayors and mayors in places with more than a thousand inhabitants must be professionals. I would announce the possibility that a large number of candidate lists in May next year will be free to call an inter-party company or inter-party holding company. And since Mrs Adlesic has most strongly defended this solution at the cabinet session, I must admit that I have had a strange solution, especially her, which was also the mayor and parliamentary representative. Why? The government’s reasoning states that the shortcomings of a law that has not yet started to apply and that the scope of a job is such that we need to introduce a second and a third deputy. Be careful, the large range of jobs and then the government and the ruling insist that municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors have two deputies who are volunteers, can be volunteers. It won't cost anything. And by the way, they can be parliamentary representatives like you, the same mayors, so we can theoretically have a situation where the mayor and both of his deputies from some city or municipality sit in the House, whatever. And there's a big range of jobs down there, so there's got to be three, and they can be in the Parliament at the same time. So this large range of jobs was no reason to finally put it on the agenda and ask why in this country the mayors can't be in the Parliament and the mayors can. And that big scope this time wasn't enough for a reason either. I further ask if the time has matured for us to discuss the direct elections we are introducing and the parliamentary mandate to correct what failed to correct in 2001, in mid-2001, when the mayors stopped being state officials, became regional but remained incompatible in their duties in the Parliament. And we end it, too, and we extend it to the mayors and the mayors of the municipalities. However, such a different position as is now not justified. Locals can be in parliament, regionals can't. The government's shortcomings were observed, but it did not detect a lack of the rejected amendment a year ago. There was no solution in the law what if the term of office stopped the deputy. It was my amendment the government refused, which offered a solution, which is now trying to fix with one amendment that it is I will comment on later on. Secondly, shortcomings have been observed, and instead of where, under the constitutional law, national minorities must be represented in the executive government, we are going with a solution that where national minorities must be represented by an executive and also by Croats where they are minority, one of the three must be a member of that minority. Now that you're introducing another deputy, it's an ideal way to get rid of it. We have three candidacys, the mayor, the mayor and the mayor and two of their deputies. It is simply a provision enough to enroll that one of them must be a member of the minority, whether national, whether Croatian if the Croatian people are minority in that unit of local self-government. And then we experience that even a leading man is elected from the ranks of the minority, one or the other. And by such a provision that the deputy must be a representative of the minority I truly deny this provision of the Constitutional Law. What's it cost you now to use it that way? We also had two amendments signed on behalf of HSS and HDZ clubs. The first introduces a real solution that is completely contrary to the electoral law, that if the deputy is suspended, be careful now, that the new deputy will appoint the mayor, mayor or mayor and confirm the representative body. And what if the representative body refuses to confirm the proposal of the leader? Well, we make the laws of life, we're serious people. And we need to know that such an option exists objectively. There's no solution in the law. Or else. What if the mayor, mayor or mayor was elected as an independent candidate who didn't also go with his representative body list? How, then, will you meet the condition that the deputy's proposal must be on that list? He didn't have a list for the representative body. It was supported by 3, 4 parties that went... He has won and cohabitated with them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And he doesn't have his list in the representative body. And that's theoretically possible. So you're taking away his right to propose a deputy to confirm the representative's body. It's like it can't happen. Someone's gonna yell off these benches again, Nostradamus. So if those who write laws are a little more concerned with reality and reality, maybe laws should be more frequent in fixing them. The second amendment speaks of a referendum on impeachment. You're introducing a small door to need a third of the voter's signature. And how long does it take to elect the mayor, mayor and mayor in the second round? 25% plus 1 or most of the out, which can theoretically be 25% plus 1. And for the initiative itself, it will take 33.33%. Where you found it, I really don't know. Where did you see that? So when the law was being prepared for second reading, they were experts from Bavaria here. What did the government say about that? And on that basis, the government has given the law a second reading of advice, experts and Bavaria. All of a sudden, it's not good anymore. It's gonna have to be a cent of the election. But there's no secretary of state, so I'm talking to ladies and gentlemen from the state office, take advantage of the possibility of an amendment to the government, and correct the two provisions of the Law on Local and Regional that you don't touch, so I can't write the amendment. I can't do business. Article 13 and Article 50 refer to the deputy municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors and the unit used in Article 13 of his deputy, and now that you introduce the 2rd and 3rd deputies, he has to write their deputies because there are more, not one. And in Article 50, you have the word deputy again, and it has to be deputies, and since that part of the law really doesn't change the government's proposal, MPs can't offer an amendment to that part, and you alone can fix it. So enter the plural and other provisions of the law because you introduce the plural to the original functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17914	Thank you very much. We have an application for correction of an incorrect quote, a distinguished colleague, Nedjeljka Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17915	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. Lesar's representative who says that next year on the lists we can expect an inter-party trade holding company. I am just saying the opposite is that this law is another contribution to further democratisation of the process in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this law will prevent trade in terms of mandates because our citizens will be known by name and last name to the mayor, i.e. the mayor of the municipality and the mayor who will best protect and defend the interests of all their citizens. Moreover, this law respects the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government signed by the largest number of cities in the Republic of Croatia to the greatest extent possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17916	Thank you very much. We have one reply, dear colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17917	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, you spoke of this amendment to HDZ and HSS. I'm afraid you haven't penetrated the reason for putting that amendment into its essence and logic. It's an amendment. You're absolutely right. The amendment is pointless, completely dissipating from the spirit and letters of the law by making sense he has a great chance of being accepted by the government. This amendment does not address at all all the electoral situations that you have been talking about. What if the deputy is independent, what if he didn't go out with his list, what if he's not out of that party or out of that option at all in the council of any councilman? Nothing the amendment treats, but it's not even set up to solve the problem. He was set up for another very different reason to resolve the relationship between the two proposings. That's all. So it wouldn't happen to each other. They trust each other so much. They believe so much that they've now made this amendment secure. Well, the HDZ guy thinks, look, if the HSS has a chief, and I have a deputy, so mine has to leave for whatever reason I'm gonna get screwed by the HSS, they're gonna set up their own. Well, to keep that from him, let's go give him this amendment so we can stick to each other for a little bit. And because of that amendment, his goal is not to solve the deputy problem at all, you know. It needs to be entered into the logic of the one who was setting the amendment, so when it gets into that logic, then it becomes quite clear why this amendment has exactly that form.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17918	Replication response, dear colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17919	Thank you very much. Dear Stazić, thank you for helping me to penetrate all the depths of the secrets that are hiding such an under-explained or strangely reasoned amendment. But they have another problem in them. When the Parliament passed the electoral law and we introduced a model of direct sources around the deputies, it entered the law by means of a decree if my deputy mandate ceases to have no choice. So, it was an intensity that by the end of the term there were no deputies. And we discussed it and there was an amendment to correct the situation that was rejected and we didn't do it then. Now we can read the contents and intentions of this amendment from this list, and we can also read from another position to be the reason for the extraordinary elections of the then elected leader. But whatever background is, whatever motives the proposings have offered to write such an amendment is only proof that they really don't want to have a system of directly elected leaders, and without the great pulsar around it that would be monitored as a consequence of the trade holding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17920	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of a distinguished colleague, Ivan Hanžek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17921	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government. I'm going to start a little bit different than usual, usually I'm performing calmly and I'm looking for a medium solution, and in the follow-up of my debate, I'm going to be based on an experience-related debate of 15 years in local self-government. But I have to react, there is no colleague Markovanovic who started with one inappropriate observation and I am sorry because otherwise I appreciate him as a constructive and correct colleague, and continued Mr Matušić, who would otherwise not have reported the situation because the more often he reports, it is better for the SDP. Namely, to mention the morbidity of a performance in the political atmosphere of confidence talks to ministers and to say that the situation of the death of a young girl was used, while not acknowledging that the ministers were removed because of the murder of that girl and that the entire session was used, the cause of the death of a young girl is because I do not remember the meeting being scheduled and that hundreds of young people in the Republic of Croatia have been debated. He wrote, sir, I have to quote Svilic's comment "because we're all the rest of us, there are some more important ones that are calling meetings and changing ministers." And now I'm going to this quieter part, experienced. It is cosmetics, unfortunately bad cosmetics and here I agree with all my colleagues who insist that since we're changing a law we haven't even started to apply, that we change everything or add everything we've already seen or that we've concluded that we need to change. Here are colleagues from local self-government from HDZ, HSS, not to list, from all parties in fact, and they all have certain experiences, and the most experience we have are those from small towns where we have about 12, 13 to 16 employees and where the Mayor of the "Kate for All" and everywhere has to come and the deputy is not worth it if he comes but if the mayor does not come, if no one came from the Ugly, etc. etc. I support, I rarely support Mr. Cain, but today's debate, when he said it should be left to the statutes. I agree that again it may be as my colleague Stazic says, the issue of trade under quotes, but also some objective local opportunities. Because look, you can work on two sides, it's important that you don't do amateur work, but you can volunteer and do it very well and highly engaged. Also, as far as saving goes, I have to say those arguments don't stand. The council will meet more often, so the council is bigger, so there are fewer fees but it meets more often, and it will cost the same. The cost principle in these relations is not exactly the most adequate argument. We have and the situation here can be explained by colleagues not to say it publicly, but I say, many times for the first two years, the headship doesn't work because people who have looked at politics and executive authority from a distance, I like to say "how does Ivica see the behaviour of the authorities" so they think that headship can do anything. They don't know that there are laws, that laws need to be studied and read, and most often it's the mayor who has to know and say that something can't be done, that it's not in accordance with the law and so on. When it comes to size and number, we'll come, here's a colleague of Huška's we were together, a colleague of Lesar I don't know if he's there. In America, a city of 500 thousand inhabitants has seven councilmen headed by the mayor. 4 or 5 are selected by neighborhoods, and the deputy mayor and mayor are elected in the entire city and have a director of the city, and I believe and hope, I do hope that this country will still go in a better and better direction and that tomorrow will be a problem actually found in some areas of professionals who will be willing to risk 4 years being in one function and then go back to their business or be affirmed elsewhere. The figure is not crucial, some other things are crucial which unfortunately we are not changing right now, and this is primarily coming back, and probably also colleagues from HDZ would be discussing, and I understand and respect the relationship, which is not defined about not adopting the budget. Is the definition in the budget of having to do those things that are not dependent on political will, collective contract for kindergarten employees, collective contract for school staff, etc. So let's say projects communal and so on. except maintenance stand until they are delivered or if new elections are to be called. These are all the situations life brings, which no law can predict, but in any case it would be good to see about these situations. One of the things that I think would be good is that if there weren't no of these others, the adoption of these other suggestions would be conditionally determined by the first deputy. It can happen, God forbid, I don't want anyone to want it or the party opponents, that the mayor be a month, two, three, physically and mentally prevented from acting his function. Knowing us, not the Croats but our people, we are all vain, who will be the one who will take over would say "soldiers" in their own hands at that moment instead of the mayor. Do you have an alphabet? I think the order of the election would be, if it were more orderly on the election list, not in alphabetical order, because anyway, the mayor would be one, so it could be with "Z" and his first deputy would be with "A" that in that sense in the law it's decadently said, the first deputy is the one who was elected on the list as first, second, if you go to third. It's at this point that you know little children's stuff like this, but in a particular situation I can cause certain blockades. No one, no marriages are ideal or eternal, so if you want some coalition marriage that can be created on that principle, it may break and cause consequences for the citizens at some point, not for the city administration, but for the citizens, and I think that these variants should also be taken into account. And finally the number of signatures. I would insist still that it be determined in percentage, that we do not share, because I will tell you the Bedekovina municipality has 8700, the town of Zabok has 9500 on the last census from 2001, as far as we know today. The next city in Zagorje has 11 and something, 12. Those figures in the lists are actually created, they turn into one I'm not going to tell the farce it's too harsh a word for this serious, the collection of signatures in which everyone is signed, and actually these signatures are not real support to the candidate, but some time what I'm going to do is I'm going to sign it for you, but I'm also running from HDZ right now to sign it so it doesn't turn out that I'm on someone's side when I collect the signatures. I think that if we are already for that alternative, and I think it should be for the signing, to determine the percentage of the number of voters, because the population is relative, the number of voters, and that this is a unique criterion, and that often five times we don't change it from case to case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17922	Thank you very much. We have one reply to the replica, the distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17923	Thank you. Well, I already thought my colleague that my corrections to the incorrect allegations of the SDPs were actually in vain. But in your words, you obviously follow them well, and as you say, they benefit you. I'm glad you could use those corrections of incorrect allegations. But okay, let's get back to the point of what you said. So I believe that the moment you are not so strong in the defence of SDP's interests, you will see for yourself as one of your distinguished former SDP MPs said two nights ago, that your leader's statement was completely inappropriate and politically immature. I believe that we will have opportunities and after a few years we will meet and talk about it and I believe that you will talk about it differently. As for the savings you were talking about here, she's no argument. My experience that is longer in local self-government than in Parliament tells me that there will be absolutely savings. I am now talking specifically about local self-government units in Dubrovnik-Neretva County where, as a rule, council members, therefore members of the representative body have one-off compensation, so if they meet multiple times, they can only be cost-expanded, which are essentially not large, because they live in that local self-government unit. So it can't be much increased, but it can be a huge reduction in the headship's cost item. Because headship also has a fee and there's travel expenses, etc. for each session which normally was either one time a week or twice a month, plus therefore a fixed fee. So, quite certainly, when you compare the current cost situation relating to headship, which is annual in some units of local self-government and more than 700 thousand kuna, and when you compare it with the costs of one deputy, and even if he, an additional deputy, and even if he is a professional, then it will be significantly, significantly lower costs and absolutely that the savings are quite certainly on the side of this bill, or what we have so far so far, so your claim certainly does not stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17924	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17925	Well, actually, I'm sorry a little bit because I challenged Mr. Matusic to become constructive, that's how he'll perform, and that's not good for the SDP, because then we have to work harder. But I'll tell you for sure you're right, I'm just confirming that. Local opportunities are gone, transport costs are minimal so as to generalise, looking at the state level, looking at certain counties where there are bounces, differences. So I say don't base, I didn't talk about expenses because it was a fundamental argument. Not a fundamental argument. It may be one of the additional arguments, but I said bigger problems are also in the headship that doesn't understand or wants to understand which mayors and mayors often struggle with, to first explain to them that something is impossible or that something is possible, and then just go public and fight for their position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17926	Thank you very much. He's reporting for a debate between his distinguished colleagues, Gordan Mars. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17927	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we got this set of laws ahead of us, it was a set of laws that was kind of needed to make 'em say so prepared better and finally implement the local elections next year. But by observing the law of some of these laws we have discussed twice, so the laws have passed two discussions in the Parliament, changes already several times, and as counterpart Matušić has now said, the fact is that the heads are being abolished and that this will be determined, 'let's say that the expenditure relief for regional self-government and we in the SDP have hoped to go in that direction. But unfortunately, in the end, it turned out to be as someone here today said they would lack coalition potential and that we should add another mayor, parished to settle potential coalition partners. That's what the SDP doesn't want. The SDP does not want to make the law a political trade. We can call this law the Law on increasing the coalition potential of HDZ. So somewhere missing, let's put another mayor, collected to keep the coalition partners calm. And to say then that there won't be any extra cost, that they can be volunteers, so as if, let's be real gentlemen, as if volunteers are in that sense and now volunteers, of course I'm not talking about government officials who, like some of them here and the MPs don't get two salaries, but a volunteer in local units means you're getting some compensation. You don't get full pay, but most of the time it's half salary, four, five thousand kuna, on which the local community pays its contribution again, and in the end it turns out to be a huge cost to that unit. When we look after the local elections, I'm quite sure there will be few volunteers in the mayoral and mayoral places. We'll be able to count them on the fingers of one hand. So that's where we're going with the story that, let's just say that the employees of certain additional party personnel. In my account these hundreds, 90 to 100 additional jobs I would call it, will cost regional self-government an additional 25 million kunas each year. This is the additional cost of this amendment that we're talking about today, meaning an additional mayor or an additional parishioner in local and regional self-government units. On the other hand, it is quite illogical that the City of Zagreb provides for the possibility of volunteering. I really can't imagine how a mayor for economic activity or for social activity can be a volunteer in the City of Zagreb. What kind of work can he do with such a system so that he can choose whether he will volunteer or be a professional? So my debate would go in this direction to make commitments for the towns of the parish and, of course, the City of Zagreb is at the level of the county, i.e. the Mayor of the City of Zagreb, that under the obligation they must be professionally employed. When we talk about volunteers in these places especially in the smaller environments, there is a level of 10,000 inhabitants, where below they can be all volunteers above that they can choose whether they will be mayors. I think it's totally irrelevant whether in one city that size there will be one or two mayors especially with powers that regional self-government now has. When, when we live in a very centralized state where we have every responsibility, every development must be consulted by the central government. I think someone mentioned this before me in the debate that if it's just a matter of representing the city or a unit of local self-government that other management staff or representatives of the city council can do so. When we look at the second law, and this is about the way the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, I think it's absolutely illogical this provision of the number of signatures, the provision of the number of signatures the motionor has put. Someone has already noticed we will have municipalities such as Zagvarje with 210, 220 voters where the commissioner's candidate will have to collect 50 signatures. I am convinced that in these elections whoever wins is very likely if he is not the only candidate he will not have so many votes. So if you have 220 voters, if you... It's 40%, so it's going to be 80 people somewhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you get 40, 41, 2 votes, you win the election. That's why I think it's a provision that doesn't follow what's called life and the size of the municipalities that are in Croatia today. Someone also mentioned various cities that have less than 10,000 inhabitants. So you with 10% voter support are going to the polls. We'll have one or two or three candidates at most. I think it would be more appropriate to take a percentage. I suggest that it be 2 and a half percent of registered voters and at least 30 voters in a particular municipality, which means, for example, that in the city of Zagreb you should collect about 14,000 signatures. I think that, on the other hand, in Zagvar you must collect 30 or in some town of 10,000 people you must collect 200 signatures. So we follow what's real life, life on the ground. In the end, here's only when, when we analyze these changes to the law, I have to say that I'm disappointed because we live in a time when it shouldn't matter if we take care of 100 people. We live in a time when each kuna needs to be carefully delayed, especially when it comes to state spending or in this case consumption, which through the legal obligation will be on the burden of local self-government so that I would be more satisfied that this provision remains where it is defined to be only one deputy mayor or deputy mayor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17928	Thank you very much. We have reports of correction of the quote. First of all, Honorable Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17929	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, I'd like to correct my colleague Maras' incorrect claim. He said volunteers get fees. That's not true. If there are such cases, it's in the minority. I know a whole series of volunteers myself, the mayor. And I'm the mayor of a volunteer without a single swear of compensation, and I believe that's how it's going to be when this law is passed. And I would just like to comment on this more SDP obviously fear of the coalition, of the upcoming elections, of this law because coalitions are a perfectly normal democratic category in the elections, and with the SDP it seems that no one wants to coalition in the future, so this law does not suit you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17930	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Borislav Matkovic also reported for a correction of the allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17931	Mr. Vice President, here may be after my colleague, Huska, I thought I'd give up because it's actually my correction. It is obvious that we who have worked as mayors have the same view on these issues because we know how it works and how it works in local self-government units, so I would just correct my colleague, which is that volunteers do not receive any compensation in terms of which you have spoken and amounts. He can only possibly get when he goes on a road trip for travel expenses. So it's not just about us as Parliamentarians, it's about everybody else, or else he wouldn't have volunteer status. And I would supplement this, obviously, that you think in the SDP that we in HDZ shouldn't have coalition partners in these future elections that follow... And you don't need to be afraid we're gonna get it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll get 210 votes from 210 voters in Zagvarje, so what do you want? That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17932	We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17933	Article 209 has been injured. I just hope he doesn't get 215 out of 210. So, so Article 209 was injured because my colleague didn't correct me. I didn't say that all volunteers receive compensation because normally state officials and I said they don't. But the vast majority of people who will be these volunteers will receive that compensation if they don't have it, of course, if they're not legally in another job that is in conflict of interest. If they are not, they will surely receive compensation and this will be a cost to local units. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17934	Thank you very much. As they go to the election, I guess they'll have to say whether they'll receive a fee or not. Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17935	Dear Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, and listening today turns out to be the biggest problem between the mayor and the mayor in the debate on these laws, however, same as the mayor of one of the cities where there is a circus of 9,000 residents I think and see little bigger problems in relations between the city council and elected under the new law of the mayor and mayor. In addition, I would always have there, and probably all of us would have had enough more proposals and as regards these proposals to supplement the 2007 law by amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government referred to in the proposal, the proposals should be supported and for the reasons that the Proposer stated there and the fact is that the mandatory professional status of mayor and deputy financial not only needlessly burdened the units of local self-government particularly less. And if they themselves have the opportunity to be professionally engaged elsewhere or want volunteer work in local self-government. It is also good that the proposal is the real difference between cities of up to 10,000 and cities of over 10,000. At this point I'm going to set an example of my town of Little Losinj where we're both volunteers and deputy and I. This city works, there's investment and there's business. I claim that a quality solution should be made to the issue of professionals in the city itself, in services that prepare quality materials if they are legally all solved I think it is not a problem then, as the body as the headship has now passed laws, that now in cities more than 10,000 inhabitants solve the issue of a small headship if we say so but which will certainly be far better and better acquainted with the problem of the city. In smaller places and cities, I say examples like we did, and today the problem is to find a man who will come to you professionally behave that function, and they are very quality and good to act as volunteers without receiving any compensation, and even in the headship for reasons they want to prove themselves in political life, they want to confirm their knowledge from the economic part, but they don't want to sit as professionals in the city because they have their own companies, they have their reasons why they don't want to. Therefore, I believe that this law, especially up to 10,000 inhabitants, is of great quality and good to allow in that segment what it has allowed and so far is the law if it were to be in the statutes as we have changed in the statutes just so that I, among other things, would be a volunteer. I therefore believe that this amendment should be supported in this segment, and as regards the change relating to the specificity of cities up to 10000 in such a way as to reduce the number of support needed for the mayor's candidate, it is from 500 to 200 proposed changes to affirm the basic provision of electoral legislation that everyone can be elected, elected and elected in a way that facilitates the running for a larger number of candidates. Furthermore, these changes would avoid even a hypothetical situation if a third of them were not eligible to vote in certain cities that barely cross the number of 3000 inhabitants. For example, children. Then you have a large number of fictitious people who have a residence. For example, weekenders never vote as well as always present a statistically expected number of citizens who will not exercise their voting right more votes will be needed to support the candidate, rather than what the winner could get at the end of the vote. I will therefore propose this proposal, I say, and I think that there would be more definitely talks, including suggestions on how it will work, and I see more problems of functioning between the future mayor and his deputy mayors and the functioning of the city council, which is evidently clear that it will surely meet more, more often. But they won't, I say, and financially it will be so important because at this point in many cities, and even where I'm mayor, they don't receive any compensation for a city council member, so it won't be a problem, but I'm sure they'll have to be more often as well as not bad. And by getting that, I say two deputies who will have the opportunity to make a decision ourselves, we get quality people, because I say many times and we know for ourselves that even in larger cities, the problem is to find out who's going to run for office in the first place. I'm not talking about the party I'm in, which I represent, but I'm talking about the problem in general when the problem in terms of professionality is the function that it will possibly perform. I'd rather say that maybe some things we're talking about are problems that will happen tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, there's going to be some kind of budget or some things like that if you don't take it and stuff like that. And that around this case today, whether or not it's going to be, whether it's a store or not, so I don't think you're going anywhere to win the election. I hope that at least in one city you will get, so that you too will have to go with some coalition, so you too will be welcome where there are two deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17936	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. It is up to the debate of distinguished counterpart Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17937	And here's what I might say to my colleagues right away on this last remark, that if we were to speak pro-domo sua, then for the same reasons, the arguments that you're defending existing or proposed changes, I could defend because I really intend to have a big coalition in the city of Sisak, and these talks are going well, and with partners that maybe someone else is counting on. So, if we start with that logic, I will support that law that fits my partial, current interest, and if it were the way and logic that we would think about both this and all the other laws, then I'm afraid we wouldn't be at the level of responsibility chosen by the citizens of this country. I would like to think about this as well as all the other laws by trying to answer fundamental questions that should be asked if we are truly responsible people. Before asking if it's useful to me, to my stranger or to someone else with a rope or a partial interest. Why are we changing a law that hasn't even entered into force yet? That's the first question I ask all of us and I'm trying to find an answer to that question. A law that has not yet begun to live and we are changing obviously or has not been well prepared, has not worked on a sufficiently high-quality professional and scientific basis, and the laws of this type when you change, in fact, a whole system of choices must be very well thought out and in no case should be passed on to a shortcut, but only after long, good, quality preparations. However, it is not the biggest problem. If we really see in the preparation of the implementation of a law failure, it is good to fix them before they come to pass. But whether the changes that are now being proposed and especially the amendment that we have received here correspond better to the spirit of the law than whether they are not achieved by what we wanted to achieve by moving to a different system of elections, the direct system of election of mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors. I'm afraid not and I think I can prove it. I think that the entire Croatian public welcomed the system, the changed system of election of mayors, the mayor for a simple reason, for the reasons that 17 or 15 years of practicing local self-government and regional government in Croatia were indeed a time of great debauchery to use a lighter term for what was happening in local self-government units especially after the elections for organs, bodies, etc. those units. It was indeed the space of the country's worst, most immoral and most devious con people and the direct play of the voter's will. Maybe you don't know one thing. In one big city in Croatia, I think it's the tenth largest city in the city of Sisak since '93. The year in power is one and the same political option that has never won the election in those 15 years. They've never won the election, and for 15 years they've been in power in the city of Sisak. Every time after the election, one unprincipled, unfair trade, blackmail, pressure, etc. There was a change in that voter's will. I, as you can see, won't even tell which political party it is because I would react the same way if it were a party whose member I am and any other party. The adoption of a new law and the change of the electoral system has therefore been welcomed to avoid playing the will of citizens, and these changes that are now being proposed are not contributing to strengthening what was wanted with this electoral change in the system. Why? First of all, the intention of the legislator, if we did so well read in the first proposal, was to ensure a vote for an individual, for a person with his political, moral and any other integrity. In that case, the deputy was a person going in a package with the mayor, mayor or chief. Their political destiny was connected and must be linked. They choose from one ticket. The situation in which we increase the number of substitutes changes things from the foundation. There's no reason left for us not to go out in a month with a proposal to introduce three deputies or five deputies. We'll say if the government has five deputy prime ministers, why don't the mayor have five deputies? One will be in charge of the fire department, the other will be for agriculture, the third for education, and so on we will find valid arguments and we will say that this is how the mayor of jobs is relieved, etc., etc. If you've violated the principle, then everything is allowed. One deputy is something entirely different from two deputies. It's a huge difference that reason for change in this case doesn't justify at all. Will the citizens show their better will? He won't. He won't. We're getting headship again, but this time it's a headship reduced to three people. But it is certain that this is about the fact that the mayoral or principalial or mayoral function should help again to account for the true will of voters to establish coalitions that can result in a lower efficiency, the efficiency of the future government. The colleagues also set up some dilemmas that were important to keep in mind, and it would be good to resolve them. For example, situations no law can foresee, but to which counterpart Hanzek warned. Who's the first, who's the second deputy mayor? Will it be determined in the election itself? Will they really be cited in alphabetical order on the list? Novela, i.e. the amendment proposed by HDZ and HSS clubs, which requires that the end of the term of office of the deputy elected directly, so on the list with the mayor, the mayor chooses the person of the same political orientation from the council's ranks is, in fact, complete, I think, legally inconclusive, and politically profoundly, if you want for these reasons that it can really be about an independent candidate who has no list behind him, that it is possible that it is about a candidate who has no councilman. I'd like to see in Sisak, for example, a deputy person behind who won't be a city councilman, but he'll be a citizen because let's say it's a person who has a great, enjoyed reputation, credibility, etc., etc. So these are questions that are being opened entirely unnecessaryly by amending this law. I believe that if the intention was to facilitate coalition agreements, that could be done in other ways. The mayors will have a chance to create their own teams. In these advisory teams, places can also be found for quality party people who will support the mayor and his deputy, and it is not necessary for the coalition potential of this or that to be determined and established in this way and the consistency of the system to be disrupted. I have no illusion that the appeal will be serious and that we do not break a law that is better than what will be after these changes, that it will be accepted, but I think it would be good to think about what someone seems to be doing at some point, it can be harmful to him tomorrow, and it is dangerous if it is to the harm of the citizens, and I'm afraid these changes are not to the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17938	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Nedelja Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17939	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I will correct two incorrect allegations by Mr. Vidovic, who says that actually amendments and additions to the law have not been done on a sufficiently good scientific and professional basis. On the contrary, Mr. Representative, that is definitely not true because I will only say one argument, and that these amendments and additions have consulted the European Charter of Local Self-Government and definitely with other mechanisms should be put into effect. The second incorrect false quote is actually you claim that the will of the citizens will not be respected. On the contrary. The famous name and last name of the mayor, the mayor of the municipality and the mayor are being prevented from trading in terms of mandates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17940	Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17941	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government are proposed for the implementation of preparations for the first direct local elections in the Republic of Croatia, which will be held as we know on 17 May 2009 and where citizens will for the first time directly elect their municipal mayors and mayors, mayors and their deputies. The main issues proposed to establish this bill are the number of deputy municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors, depending on the size of the unit of local, or regional self-government by the number of inhabitants, the way in which the municipal chief and mayors and their deputies are performed professionally or without the establishment of a working relationship and the choice of deputy municipal chief, mayor or mayor from the ranks of members of national minorities, or Croatian peoples in units of local self-government in which members of national minorities make up the majority of the population. Amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government related to preparations for the first direct election of executives at the local level in the Republic of Croatia, provisions governing the issues of how to perform the duties of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor and their deputies, have identified certain shortcomings which are corrected by this law. Namely, a large number of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, of course and smaller cities, do not have sufficient financial capacity and can also have two selected persons on the payroll with employees in administrative departments and services. Therefore, this law proposes, depending on the size of the unit of local self-government, the choice of the chosen person to decide how to perform the duty to which he is elected. This law also sets out the difference in the number of deputy municipal mayors, mayors, or mayors, depending on the size of the unit of local self-government, which is primarily the reason for the scope of the tasks carried out by larger units of local and regional self-government. The law suggests that in units of local self-government with up to 10,000 inhabitants, the municipal chief, or mayor has one deputy, and in units of local self-government that have more than 10,000 inhabitants, and in cities, county headquarters, or county mayor, or mayor, or mayor, have two deputies. It shall also be prescribed that directly elected municipal and mayoral mayors and their deputies, and that within 8 days of the date of entry into service, be notified to the competent service in the municipality, or to the city or county of the municipality, whether or not the duty on which they are elected will be performed professionally or without the establishment of a working relationship. Here are a few references also to previous discussions primarily from HDZ representatives. Mr. Hanzek told me that the headship does not work in the first two years of office. The reason for this is that Mr. Hanzek seems to me, primarily the law that was abolished in 2000 to 2001, in a way that made it impossible for members of the headship to be also employees of local self-government. So in this way, additional costs were introduced to local self-government units, and I absolutely agree that the members of the headship could not have been and were not out of practice as you do, that they were not high-quality operatives in the main cases and that they were spending a lot of money on the headship. Here is Mr. former Mayor Grbić and I know, our Zadar County has 11 members of the headship, has two deputies, and means these 11 fees times 12 months times 4 years will no longer be spent from the budget of local self-government, and I assure you that more than 90% of local self-government units and today there are both mayors and mayors and one to two deputies. So we are not introducing, or there will be no additional costs for the functioning of local self-government units. Also, my colleague Maras seems to have mentioned to me a small number of needed gases so that someone would become mayor or mayor. I will remind you all together that Mr. Bandic seems to me to have become mayor of the City of Zagreb with only 18% support of the electoral body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17942	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17943	The esteemed Vice President and the esteemed colleague in part agree with you if we are referring to the 2001 law. I've been in chieftains since 93. However, I am a fan of this law today in which the mayor with expert teams of colleagues, and if all members of the chieftainship are from the ranks of employees, then it is actually a college. It's actually an act of public interest, representing public interest, so that we don't differ significantly, and this replica is actually more of an explanation for some of these dilemmas and in the public who appear to be some kind of composition. In 93 we had great chieftains you remember, so then we met with the quorum problem that the same people were always coming to the sessions, so then we went to change statutes and cut it down, and then it was reduced to too little. Unfortunately, the current chieftains are such that three people in our small town, make quorum, and three can always agree to some things pass, but we go on the positive side, operational. I think college is a more adequate solution and I think both colleagues and colleagues agree. The head of the office with the mayor, and the mayor again and again in all the times and situations today remains a lone rider who leads the battle with his party members, with chiefs, with the council and with the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17944	And the hardest with your own. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. So I can say that I have listened very carefully to the debate on three draft laws regarding the exercise of self-government rights, so local administration. And what kind of griefs me? The whole debate, and I could still forgive it, but the bill also goes after it to ensure the executive authority, the mayor, the mayor and the mayor have an easy position, so that they can do what they think best and this is ensured by law, and the Constitution and the wish for us to all, that the right to local self-government is exercised in such a way that citizens' representatives have the greatest impact on the tasks performed by local self-government. This means communal activity, education, health care, etc. Almost 14 areas. And, behold, the government has decided under whose pressure to introduce two systems in this area. One system is the choice of executive authority by majority model and is given the legitimacy of the direct election, and the Constitution also says the Charter of Laws on Local Self-Government says that the right to local self-government is exercised in the representative body. And that says the Constitution I don't know in 132, 137 articles specifically say that the right to local self-government is exercised through a representative body. And imagine now, and it's probably going to be like that by the nature of things at least 25% of local units where you're going to have to live cohabitation. Therefore, one policy option will select a representative hair or majority who should control the executive hair and will directly select a list of executive authorities from another policy option entirely. And that's not a problem either, but they came to power or won a mandate based on some program and some projects, and there's an imminent conflict, because the projects are different, the programs are different. It is an imminent conflict, and no mechanisms are foreseen to resolve the conflict. So, the Croatian government says citizens, we will suffer one experiment you will pay with money and suffer local self-government. That's the consequence, I'm speaking publicly, it's written down, which we're going to conclude in four years. So, to expect what is imposed on citizens, that only the norm will solve political trade, is not logical, nor will political trade be resolved. She's kind of legal now. And this amendment from the HDZ Club and HSS isn't exactly harmless. Whoever wrote it said he was writing, he's very clever. Suppose that matches the word in general, the high expectations of large parties. And he provides them with an even greater influence on the executive power. The amendment ensures an even greater impact on the executive power without results in the elections, because, of course, the majority option in the representative body will push someone into executive power and will have a direct impact on the executive power, and most importantly needs to be foreseen, which is the meaning of democracy, control when cohabitation is from one political option a completely different programme, quite another project and gets a direct mandate. And the representative body cannot impose its programme, its projects, and must control the executive power. We don't have those mechanisms. I still hear that the possibility should be maintained if the draft budget is not adopted which, in such a situation, can hardly be adopted, because we already have proposed programmes and projects before the citizens, and different policy options, so that in order to be effective, the representative body and that representative body of citizens should be disbanded. What logic is constitutional, what political, what legal? I don't see her. And while we're already playing law to regulate the issue of self-government, then let's not go so low-level, so that we can legislate where this duty will be professionally carried out. So let's give it to the statutes... Some now have an obligation to make the local elections statutes, decisions and say in my constituency, in my local unit everyone who is elected must act professionally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the point of it. Everybody's got to be professional. At the same time, it should be possible for units of local self-government and regional in their statutes to predict now, as the percentage of national minorities is known, there is a Law on the Rights of National Minorities, how many deputies they will be in the executive power. One more thing, those who say it might happen to select a local unit on the list of executive heads who are members of a national minority. This does not affect the right of a national minority to, according to its... to reach the executive authority if it has secured or to obtain representation in the representative body, because the one elected on the civil list has not been elected as a member of the national minority. Well, in my party there are indeed more national minorities, but none came to represent the rights of the national minority, but the rights of all citizens in the political option of social democracy and thus interpret, we will further complicate the life and units of local self-government, but also the exercise of the rights of this Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The fee, here in the bill, says that, therefore, the Parliament would like to determine the salary of officials or members of executive bodies in the local unit. I don't think that just doesn't drink water by the logic of things, but if the Parliament could determine some parameters, some elements that determine maximum, minimum wage depending on some other criteria, I would accept that. But that we here determine the salary individually or generally for the municipalities up to so much, so for cities and municipalities that have up to 10,000 inhabitants that the mayor can have 15 thousand kunas. It's such an injustice as that, because it simply has no criteria, no values, no principles, but we simply decide that cities up to 3,000 or places up to 3,000 inhabitants will have a salary of 12,000 kuna. One of them has potential and they can pay, the other they do the state, but they don't have a job. But they don't have a job. So this is really one, one form how the government accepts, accepts or wants to experiment in its area and in a very sensitive area that is part of international documents, which is governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and which is considered even human rights. So I know that representatives and governments and I know even more that the representatives of the party in power know that this law cannot pass or has received any, any professional certificate than everyone has said that it is a danger to local units and to exercise the right to local self-government at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17946	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. One 20th - century politician said that every policy is about to be a human policy. And proposing these kind of changes these three laws are actually human policy. The staff policy of providing party colleagues to functions that are not, in fact, not necessary and necessary for the citizens who pay them because they are just as necessary and necessary then they would probably be adopted in the previous draft of the law and should not be amended in this way. Local self-government has made an immeasurable contribution to the development of parliamentary democracy in Croatia. I'll remind you of some situations. So we had initially in some units of local self-government a provision in the Rules of Procedure that there should be two-thirds of those present, and then there was one party, and only one used it if you lost the election then, with less than a third of them, would obstruct the constitution of the council. So then we had a legal provision on the confirmation of mayors by the President of the Republic, and this also applied to the mayors of the city of Zagreb. So then we had one, one also experiment that we had chiefless officers in smaller units of local self-government. We had in our last term a case of trying to introduce an imperative mandate, so with those converted bianco resignations before the election. So we've had so many situations that it's actually hard to imagine that all of this happened in less than 20 years. It seems to me, Mr. Beus, that we had a case in your town that one member of the headship admitted, what was, 300,000 Euros? 350 thousand euros that he was therefore offered to leave the headship and change the political option. [[Intruder: 350]] Therefore, if we look at what is happening with this law, the number of deputy mayors in a number of cities is increasing. And I think it's actually okay. We couldn't expect anything else. First, we increased the government and the number of ministers. Then the number of State Secretarys was increased. There are more than 50 of them today, and they were supposed to be a substitution to those deputy ministers from the last structure that was 20. So we even increased the number of constituency committees. And given what's left of us now, rather than even increasing the number of deputy mayors, let's round up that story after inflation has increased, debt and so on. What we have reduced, or what is proposed to reduce, is the number of signatures needed for the candidate mayors of party and independent lists in cities of up to 10,000 inhabitants. I think it was done in a not very appropriate way. First, I think it should be, that the number of signatures should be determined by a percentage of the number of voters or the number of inhabitants, now I would not enter into such details. Because it really shouldn't have happened to us that in a town with a thousand and a half inhabitants it takes two, two hundred signatures, and in a municipality of 10,000 residents 100 signatures. I don't think that, even if there's an increased scope for the mayor it doesn't justify such a big difference and not even such a large number, not even such a large number of signatures. So I think it should be further, further reduced and, if possible, put the number by the percentage. However, regardless of the imperfection of the system and all the good mayors, no matter how many deputies they have, regardless of which party they will belong, they will repeat their mandate, and the bad ones, the less good ones will have to confirm it in the second round. The bad ones will probably be replaced if a better candidate is found. The question, however, is what is the most important thing in this law, and what is not resolved is the relationship between the council and the mayor. I'll be done with that, too. The entire system is now actually patching some holes but not systematically from those past systems, so we have now received that one great politician of the 21st century has said to a strange beaker of regulations that will not edit but will further cloud, not to use another, another expression of the situation in our local self-government and I believe that we will then see a meeting with security guards and other Croatian specificists in the work of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17948	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17949	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We have three amendments ahead, three important amendments to the law that many already call "Djurdji's laws". Namely, these proposals, as counterpart Maras said, are increasing the coalition capacity of HDZ, but it seems to me that the attractiveness of HDZ towards some specific partners who will have more deputies than council members after the implementation of this law. Furthermore, it seems to me that this "Gurje's Law" replaces political corruption with political grandamia. So far, HDZ has been able to count on one, one partner. Now he can count on two. It's a slightly more comfortable one situation that when mutilated is given an odd solution that should give political partners a sense of security at first sight. But when you look at this law a little bit, it seems to me that they'll laugh sourly after a few months. Namely, these legal solutions are far from what the Croatian People's Party is if you remember three years ago when the idea was even launched in the Law on Direct Choice, so when you compare what we suggested at the time on the trail of European practice and what eventually came out in the “National Journal” after the Croatian Parliament voted and what was yet to come out is heaven and earth. And that fundamental purpose of the law, which is to enable a better functioning of the local self-government and regional self-government system, seems not to be achieved because many things are complicated. But let me get back to that sour feeling. This law installs deputy mayors, mayors and mayors according to a certain quota. For now, it is said that the reason lies in the population, and when it is said that those who have more than 10,000 inhabitants need two, then we must be aware that this can go caricatureally to the fact that those who have 100,000 inhabitants need 20, and the city of Zagreb has no less than 160 deputies. If 10,000 goes to two, then 700,000 go to a little more, right? 140. It would be a nice company if 140 deputies served the mayor of Zagreb. And when we look at a little bit of that argument, we'll see that it's not serious to the end, because these changes are how things are, and some small environments will have more deputies because usually in small areas, there are rights that have national minorities. So some cities of 10, 12000 will have three deputies, and some municipalities of 5000 will have two. So it will be a completely different system, and the worst of all we do not know what these deputies are for, because the law has not mentioned in any word what they are for but only defines that by the grace of the great mayor, mayor and mayor may belong to them as my colleague Shuica would say what a protocol-type obligation, because she does not arrive because she is sitting in Zagreb. And when we look at it a little bit, then you'll see that the deputy mayors who normally now do very important jobs are reduced below the level of advisors in the city's administration, because either now that or at least by systematizing jobs or internal order rules have defined what they can do, what powers they have, and how much pay they are. In particular, during 2008, the government sent several laws to the Croatian Assembly, from which it was seen that it understood what was being defended by counterpart Chehok's hands and feet, which was called the coalition agreement and the government's programme at the beginning of this year, and it was under the so-called so-called "Government Agreement". decentralisation. So it should be recalled that this goes through local self-government in the various legal projects that come before this House of Commons, so let's remember the discussion of the Budget Law, so the Law on Fundamental and Secondary Education, and the Law on concessions that are still under way, and not to mention the Law on Officials and Detentions in Units of Local and Regional Self-Government, which reduces even less the possibility of obtaining a good fit on important duties in local self-government units. We expect, we are promised to see the light of day and the rule that will settle their wages. Oh, my God, when that rule comes out! Because it doesn't matter at all what budget you have, what fiscal options you have, what obligations you have, how big your city is. The state knows best how much you need to pay your employee. So much for decentralisation of funds in which the state still controls 94 kunas from 100 kunas collected by taxes and taxes, and about 92 pardons, 92%. Four stays in Zagreb, and that 4% or 4 per hundred kuna share 560 of all other municipalities, cities and counties. So much for how this country trusts its local self-government and how it implements the charter and how it understands the principle of subsidiarity in the first place. This question about minority deputies is not harmless. If it is understood bureaucratic, if it is understood that it is only formally possible that someone past this system that the law has set in the first variant becomes a deputy, then we will put those persons in very awkward positions and mayors, the mayors and mayors will only assign to such deputies those tasks and obligations that only have to do with the activities of the national minorities. And that's not good! As it is not good that we do not allow the statutes of local self-government to prescribe how many deputies they will be and what they will do, which will be their powers. It seems to me that we've spent badly 12 months since the law was passed, that we haven't consulted enough people in practice, that we haven't sat down if only the mayors, mayors and mayors of HDZ were to say that they already say when the association of cities, municipalities and counties are not enough to listen to what they think, so let them say what their practice is daily and which could solve problems that we can anti-cipe already now. Unfortunately, it's only cosmetic change. We call upon some experts who do not have names, and it would be good if we used these 12 months because we no longer have time left and the next May begins to operate a system that many do not know enough about, and let's not forget the representative bodies are disbanded already in the spring, but in March so that elections can be held. So may God help us with this model of Gurja's law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17950	Thank you very much. I hope it won't be the last person to laugh, the most acidic one." Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs. Representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17951	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm correcting Mr. Beus' incorrect claim that the City Association is not similar enough. I will say that the proposed amendments have never actually been debated at the Presidency of the Association of Cities of which I am the President, and, in addition, the proposed amendments are not necessary and are not affected by the provisions of the laws which are not subject to these amendments and additions, so for business reasons, they cannot be included in the amendments and amendments, i.e. further debate and decision-making by them. And otherwise, I will personally and absolutely advocate all the institutions that are developing and European charters, as well as through the Association of Cities, as well as from the seat of the representative in the Croatian Parliament where I will consistently advocate their application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17952	Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17953	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, about the set of these laws that have been prepared means what we have promised the people and what people, the electoral body is looking for, means the direct choice of mayors, mayors, the mayor of the municipalities. There's been a lot of talk today. I think you did well when you listened, the voice on the ground when it comes to the local self-government unit of up to 10,000 inhabitants where they sought and explained why it should also be that the mayor of municipalities or mayor of up to 10,000 inhabitants may be, and it doesn't have to be a professional, or one deputy may be, and it doesn't have to be a professional. This all depends on their fiscal capacities and depends on the expertise of the people on those grounds. In fact, on the ground, they told us that there are municipalities that have thousands, thousands and hundreds of inhabitants and that they have no ability to finance the mayor of the municipality at all, and that the mayor who works has a good job in a company or that he is a private person that he can behave in the afternoons, call meetings on days that aren't working, etc. Also when it comes to municipalities, i.e. centres and cities of more than 10 thousand inhabitants and counties having mayors, mayors, or two deputys or deputies or mayors and deputies that this is a good thing, I think it is in practice today in most of our municipalities and counties is already being implemented, that in all our counties we have a mayor or a mayor and two deputies or two deputies, as well in cities. But they are also given the opportunity in those places where they determine, so politically where they determine that they can be professionals with their deputies, so they can be employed, and they can volunteer. Today there were words about the grab of the chair, so I don't think there are any politicians who will go to the election next year without wanting to sit in one of the chairs, whether a councilman, whether a deputy, mayor, mayor or so on, so it's just normal. There were also words about some new costs. It's hard to tell now where the new costs will be, not that these costs will be less, because we know that we have a county that has 11, 13, 15, 17 and more members of the headship, so let them have a monthly fee of about 1,000 or five hundred, then you'll see if there are 13 members of the headship with some compensation of 13 thousand and 500, that it's about twenty thousand kuna somewhere, which is quite enough and to hire a professional, even though they're in those places today, so they're already working, those people are doing. Now, who's going to use it for political purposes, who's going to make a good deal of the coalition and get a good result? All this is in front of the people, the people will say which three for the leaders in one unit of local self-government or in one county, which the three are capable of leading, and will also say which list means getting that part. It was also about colleagues with their principals. I don't think headmasters and colleges, that's not the will of the people. The leaders are professionals who are employed through a public tender, and are not chosen by the will of the people. And here's what I'm not supposed to do with this debate. There's a lot that's been said today. I think this is a good law. The law of the right people, applied to the people, is probably going to have one in four years more complements, but all laws complement better things and certainly I will support this law and I have no fear of any higher costs because if we pay one member of the headship 2 thousand kuna for some 10 or 15, 20 hours which will be a member of the headship, and one deputy mayor of 10 thousand kuna that works 180 or 200 hours, as which, then it is certainly better to pay one professional who will be in the local self-government unit for 200 hours or 250 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17954	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17955	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here, I will very briefly replicate to Mr. Mati Biljic and say that Mr. Biljić has actually convinced us by his debate how deeply he understands the functioning of the local self-government. And I therefore support everything that you have actually said, Mr. Biljić, but I will also just say that the new law is, in fact, already in the parliamentary procedure, the Law on the Payments of Local Officials and Deputys is one of the mechanisms that will also help make this law on amendments and additions to local and regional self-government live in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17956	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, five-minute debate, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17957	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. And every bill of law has its own good solutions and fewer good ones, but also bad ones. Of course it's good to have as few as possible. However, it was seen in the debate that the proposed laws, and now I am speaking in that part of the newspaper, so the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors is that there are a number of serious irregularities, vague things, a law that is not transparent enough and which does not provide answers to certain problems that are supposed to happen after the first direct elections. So it's not just about changing the technique of choice, I'd say this is actually about the profound changes in the overall system of local self-government, but just these changes seem to me not enough to see what will happen after this law is applied. Besides, he's saying enough facts, and I don't know what that's about, that the application of this law has been going on since May 17th. I mean, I don't get it, and I didn't get an appropriate and satisfying answer from the promoter, which is why since May 17th, how the candidacy will go and why it's such a solution. I say one banal thing, she'll probably change. Possibly, we'll see. Furthermore, it is now quite certain that it will go in the largest number of units of local and regional self-government that there will be two rounds of elections. It's certain that a lot of units will go to the third round of elections. The fiscal capacity of local self-government units is not enough to bear the cost of these elections, so the election practically in three rounds in a lot of cases, so here's the question of how and how and whether the promoter thought it would solve the financing of these elections let's conditionally say in three circles. Furthermore, these elections strengthen the executive power in the institutional sense and make it far independent from the representative authority. It has already been said that this relationship of directly elected leaders and representative bodies is not clear enough in important matters, both in the adoption of the budget and in the case where we have that the independent candidate is the head of the unit of local self-government and administration. I also agree with those who propose a candidate for leading posts as a percentage of the population, but I would like this law to state what the number of inhabitants means. Whether the population is based on a 2001 census or something else. Furthermore, when we talk about national minorities then nothing is said about what happens when we have more national minorities who have the right to representation. What national minority is entitled to a deputy? Whether one who has a higher percentage of the total population or which criterion will be taken and which national minority will actually have the right to run in those additional elections. That's the kind of case we've got. Therefore, I would not really comment on this comment of the HDZ and HSS amendment. I agree with the opponents who seem to have objectively given me criticism of this amendment and I think that criticism stands. In front of the HDSSB, I suggest that these amendments and additions be made to the proposal because I think that all proposals and remarks on this final draft of the law are given in good faith, because this law will not currently serve the rulings, this law should also be served for the next direct elections. Therefore, there is plenty of time for this law to be completed and adopted with those objective remarks and good suggestions that have been made in today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17958	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Anton Palarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17959	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. When discussing local self-government in this esteemed House, there is always a big concern of representatives for the development of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, perhaps partly because a large number of mayors, municipal mayors are at the same time acting honorably as representatives in the Croatian Parliament and then well know the functioning of local self-government. You must trust me on the word that the Croatian Government is also considering local self-government, its current state, as well as the guidelines on how local self-government should be developed. The government proposed a new model of elections, the Croatian Parliament discussed thoroughly through two readings and the law was passed at the last session in the past meeting with a vast majority of votes. At that time, the government took the position it is holding, that there will be no arbitration in potential conflicts between them, but believes that responsible people as executives and responsible people in the representative body will find a way to work together for the benefit of the local self-government units, and if conflicts cannot be resolved by agreement or different opinions then citizens will judge in the referendum, so those who chose both, and the representative body and directly... The model is set. [[You don't understand.]] These laws are only fine-tuning models, fine grinding adapted to field reactions, reactions from Croatian municipalities, cities, counties, those they said. But professionals are a burden to us. There are people who want to work for the common good, who want to contribute to the development of their end, who have made careers, whether they are doctors, whether they are teachers, whether they have some craft or respectable farmers who don't want to leave their careers and have something to say, have what to give, know how to manage and know how to manage their business, with their career, with their families and can be good candidates for the municipal chief and mayor and we have opened the space for such people to run and if they recognize in their midst to get the responsibility of managing local self-government units. There is a problem with the capacity of executives in cities that have significantly greater scope of work by nature because they are large, because cities are 30, 35, 50, or 60,000 inhabitants. And we have tried to analyze to what extent it is necessary to set a limit where one deputy would be sufficient, and where it is necessary to open space for two deputies and by analysis of jobs and financial capacity we consider it to be 10,000 inhabitants. Furthermore, and there we allow the possibility that someone to contribute, but not as a leading man, not as a mayor, because he must be present, he must be a professional, but someone who wants to help the mayor, someone who wants to be part of the team that he without establishing a working relationship deals with public affairs on the welfare of local self-government units. Of course it's a new model, there's a transitional time, there's one moment when one model stops, and another model comes along, it's election day. By election day there is the mayor's responsibility, he is elected in one way, he answers the representative's body, he has different responsibilities. On the day of the election, a new team will not be established on that day. There will be no official election results announced on that day, there will be some repetitive elections for the mayor, somewhere in some polling stations for the presidential bodies, but from that day on from the election day a new model of relations within the local self-government will be applied, and the election will be called on the basis of an electoral law that is in force and these changes will also be in force and the government will clearly say by the decision to call the elections for members of the presidential bodies in that and that unit in the units of local and regional self-government, elections for the municipal chief and one deputy in the units of up to 10,000 residents, mayors and one deputy in units of up to 10,000 inhabitants, mayors and two deputies in units of over 10,000 local self-government and mayors for the mayor and two deputies. Therefore, there is no legal confusion, of course, that the transitional time requires a different regulation of deadlines that must also take into account the practice of the Constitutional Court. Namely, the Constitutional Court said that it cannot distinguish the time of entry into force of the law from the beginning of its application. We have so far had in legislative practice such a solution that the law enters into force within 8 days or after 8 days of its adoption and applies to the situations that will come. The Constitutional Court considered it unconstitutional, so we bowed to this solution. Of course every country has its specifics. We in local self-government respect the European Charter, respect all the achievements of the Council of Europe, the congress of local and regional authorities. We're under surveillance. We're not alone in the world. Last year, experts from the Council of Europe on two occasions on a mission in Croatia talked to everyone, with government officials, with the non-governmental sector, with opposition deputies, with the mayors and to this extent wanted to be independent and I provided them with an escort to follow them as they walked around Croatia, they forced my officials out of the premises to hear what they were talking to the MPs. The result is no objections, no objections and it is estimated that Croatia's local self-government is an effective and effective system and I filed a report last autumn to the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe on the state of local self-government and referred to the opinion of experts who were here and who were together with us to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government. We are within the limits of best practice Member States of the Council of Europe, therefore wider than the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, but Croatia has the right to its specificity and it benefits it and indeed we have some small municipalities, we do. I've been working this job too long not to know the Civilian case, so I don't know the Zadharya case, so I don't know what Vis is, which Komiza, but we think this is a good solution. In the list, few residents were found, the population returned and more than 50 signatures will surely be collected there and at least two or three will definitely be submitted there and I believe that in all local units, both in Targets and in Zadvarje, there will be assumptions for holding elections according to the new model and that citizens in all units of local self-government will be able to choose the name and last name of the municipal chief and his deputy, and in the majority of the names and names of the municipal chief and mayor and two of his deputies. I am sorry that I cannot answer those who have criticised these articles and these proposed laws, so we have heard that the Law on the City of Zagreb has also been forgotten. There is nothing forgotten for everything there is time, we have left the Croatian practice to change the electoral model immediately before the elections. We started the legislative initiative three years before the regular local elections and we waited for the political will of the Croatian Parliament, given or not to go into that model of choice. When the Parliament adopted this in its session and with 115 votes for, therefore, clearly defined its political will, then we set out to produce these other laws that are necessary to implement them consistently and all laws concerning local self-government will be in line with the new model of the relationship between the mayor who was directly elected and the representative body. Ladies and gentlemen, there are ends, environments and people where no law is written will be good and there are environments where so far laws have been perfectly applied because it may be part of the mentality of the people who apply it and the goodwill of doing it for the benefit of the common good. I believe that this law and this package of laws and this new model is a good instrument to work on further strengthening local self-government and in environments where different political options are in the executive or representative body must find common language. We have been struggling for several years to resolve possible conflicts and by talking to the mayors of the countries that have this model, he says, so you are burdening yourself with potential and possible conflicts as if local self-government does not have reasonable people who can sit down, agree and find a common language and are constantly suggesting that we stop burdening ourselves with this possible conflict, but rather strive to improve the model next practice of most countries. Therefore, in the name of the Government, we courageously set foot in these changes. There's no perfect law. We will see if life will bring new challenges but that is precisely why there is a government and there is a Croatian Parliament to find a response to the challenges posed by living circumstances. I thank all who have supported this law, who have understood its essence. I also thank those who voted for the direct election of mayors a year ago and are now trying to question it because it was actually a crucial moment when Croatia decided to introduce a new model. These are small improvements which will, however, mean a material step forward for some local self-government units and the possibility of attracting people who do other jobs to get involved in the work for the common good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17960	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17961	The first three laws mean the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, it is necessary to vote at least 77 votes. Also, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elections of Mayors and Mayors, and the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb. Please engage to see if we have a quorum. Do we all have the keys? Let's get back to whoever doesn't. Looks like everyone does. Let's get on with it. 92 MPs, we can decide. We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 158 The debate is closed. Amendment reviews are divided into benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Mr. Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17962	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17963	A SDP representative's club on the first amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17964	It is not accepted because we believe that the size of units of local self-government is important according to the number of inhabitants and we cannot distinguish the municipalities from the cities here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17965	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic on behalf of the club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17966	Thank you very much. What's the point of the amendment? The law provides for another deputy mayor to be introduced in municipalities and cities above 10,000 inhabitants. We suggest that it be in the municipalities of more than 10,000 inhabitants, as the promoter says, but also in all cities. Why? No matter their size. Why? First we have a lot of cities that have, say, 8,000, 9,000 inhabitants, and now because there's one thousand missing, they won't have. And another more important thing. The city has some functions that the municipality doesn't have, regardless of its size. And it would be condescending for all cities to be treated equally under this law. Therefore, we do not think that these 10,000 inhabitants are 500 more or 500 less, very important for introducing or not introducing another deputy. Therefore, since we consider this an important amendment to this law and our vote on the law, we will adapt to how this amendment will go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17967	Thank you. Mr. Andrija Hebrang, you asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17968	Mr. President, I suggest a vote on the amendments by hand for speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17969	Thank you very much. I am putting this amendment on Article 1(2) of the SDP representative club to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment to Article 1(3) of the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17970	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17971	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Third, amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to Article 1(5)?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17972	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17973	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Fourth, Zvonimir Mršić's representative on Article 1?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17974	It is not accepted, because the first part of the amendment has already been resolved by the adoption of amendments to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and we do not accept the second part of the amendment, because it is precisely this law that we want to ensure positive discrimination. So that the deputy members of the national minority are elected right now by members of the national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17975	Thank you. Because the MPs don't have a vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fifth Amendment of the HSS and HDZ Representatives Club to Article 1?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17976	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17977	It's becoming an integral part.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17978	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17979	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17980	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17981	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17982	Mr. President, I must warn that the amendment by number 5 submitted by HSS and HDZ is not in line with Article 163(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, since both the 5th and 11th amendments apply to the provisions of the laws which do not change these amendments and amendments. Therefore, in the parts of the laws which are not amended, these amendments cannot be as laid down in Article 163(3), nor are they to be applied because they are anti-businessal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17983	Thank you. Secretary of State, how about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17984	It is not about changing articles that are not changing, but about adding new articles. In my opinion, there's no injury. And the government cannot interpret the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the Parliament. We do.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17985	Since this article, which has been proposed to be amended, is not intended to be amended, then we cannot accept that amendment. And please, counsel clubs, do you agree that this is the way or that you withdraw the amendment? I think that's right, Mr. Lesar, because this article wasn't meant to be changed. Therefore, there can be no amendment to it. It's a business thing. Therefore, since I see the silence this amendment cannot be accepted by the letter of the Rules of Procedure. The Sixth Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17986	It is not accepted, because the Committee on the Constitution has given a better solution to this matter proposed by the Committee on Legislatives [[In this sense, he retreats.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17987	Thank you. He's retired. The seventh Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of Article 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17988	We accept, because it is a better solution than this amendment we have rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17989	Thank you. Eight, Zvonimir Mršić's representative on Article 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17990	It's unacceptable. We believe that the right to vote will carry out the duty with the establishment of a working relationship or without the establishment of a working relationship belongs to the one elected together with the mayor, the municipal chief, and not to decide on behalf of the deputy municipal chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17991	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The ninth, representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17992	It's unacceptable. We believe that in major units of local self-government that have over 10,000 inhabitants, the municipal chief, the mayor, and in regional self-government units, the mayor must perform his duties professionally.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17993	Mr. Representative Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17994	I knew it would be like that. It is namely a different concept of the understanding and role of mayors and all these other officials, mayors, mayors and what is written in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this bill. And it's clear why they have to be professionals. It's precisely because party oligarchies would place certain people in certain places. At a time when there are in the city administrations, county administrations amassed administration and a strong number of professionals, when there is therefore a hyperproduction of these administrations of city and municipal and county I think my proposal was good that I was the one who elected to this duty to determine whether to be a professional or not to build a working relationship in order to... the municipalities, the city or the county saved funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, I know that many private entrepreneurs can run for mayor, mayor and mayor, and so on. They must leave their jobs or their firms, and they can be good mayors, mayors and mayors of the municipalities. I'm looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17995	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ten. The Legislative Committee in Article 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17996	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17997	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 11. The HSS and HDZ Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17998	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u17999	What? So it's the same fate as a member, as in Amendment 5? [[It's the same as before.]] So you can't accept the amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. It takes 77 votes to pass this law, as I have already said. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority vote: 79 votes for, 5 abstentions and 29 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18257	Now we're going to have a few points on resolutions and appointments. First: - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed this decision in accordance with Articles 11 and 12. The law on Croatia reports to the news agency. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Zoran Šikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18258	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. According to the Law on Croatia, the Croatian Parliament appoints and resolves members of the Governing Council on a proposal from the Government. A member of the Governing Council, Vladimir Lulic, appointed from the ranks of HINA employees, agreed on a personal request to end his working relationship, so the government proposes to the Croatian Parliament his resolution. Mr. Vice President, even though that's the next point I can... Explain for? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18259	It'll be on the next one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18260	On the next one. Thank you very much. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18261	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18262	Fourth. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Vladimir Lulic as member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 103 votes for and 3 abstentions are the accepted resolution of Vladimir Lulic in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18263	Let's go to the next item: - Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian news agency HINA is referred to as Government. State Secretary Zoran Sikic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18264	Thank you very much. Following the above, the Government carried out the prescribed procedure, issued a public invitation to appoint a member of the HINA Board of Directors and now submits a proposal to the Assembly for the appointment of Mr Ante Drpic of HINA staff as a member of the Governing Council. We note that Mr. Drpic also received support from HINA's Journalist Union, and this is in addition to this documentation, which has also contributed to the government's proposal of Mr. Drpic as a member of the Governing Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18265	Thank you. He's a representative of the board. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18266	Fifth. Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint Ante Drpic as a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I note that most of the votes, 108 votes in favour and 1 abstentions, were accepted by the appointment of Ante Drpic in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18267	We will go to the following point: - Proposal for a decision to appoint a deputy and deputy lawyer for persons with disabilities Proposer: Advocate for Persons with Disabilities, Proposer for Advocate for Persons with Disabilities, who submitted her proposal on the basis of Article 4. The law on, for people with disabilities. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Labour and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Report. Ms. Ana Slonješak, attorney for people with disabilities will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18268	Thank you. Mr President-in-Office of the Assembly, honourable Members by provision of Article 4(2). The Ombudsman's law for disabled persons is prescribed that the Ombudsman for disabled persons has 2 deputies who appoint or resolve the Croatian Assembly on the proposal of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. 7 candidates reported on a public call issued on July 18th. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Attorney General Act for Persons with Disabilities, National Journal 107/07, has been prescribed that if the Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities is not a person with a graduate university study of the legal profession then it must be one of the deputies. In accordance with the results of the tests and qualifications held by the registered candidates, I am free to inform you that I have selected two candidates; Boris Jakov Geričić, a gentleman who is a graduate lawyer and Mira Pekić-Knezevic, a graduate social lawyer, a social worker. Mr. Boris Jakov Geričić was born in Zagreb in 19.5.1972. He graduated from Zagreb and graduated in 1997. During the 10 years of his working life, he actively participated in resolving the issue of persons with disabilities and personal engagement to consider improving the regulations of persons with disabilities at the Association of Workers' Unions of Croatia whose member is the Association of Persons with Disabilities of Croatia. The test found that Mr. Geričić was a professional and responsible person, that he had no prejudice towards people with disabilities. He's a pleasant conversationalist and shows the desired communication skills. He is aware of the weight and sensitivity of working with people with disabilities and is willing to give his maximum to meet all the conditions that such work requires of him. It is actively used in English and trained in information. Mrs. Mira Pekić-Knezevic was born in Bego Brdo on 3.3.1955. Primary and high school ended up in Slunj. At the Higher School for Social Workers in Zagreb, she graduated in 1976 and a joint study for social work where she graduated and obtained a professional title as a graduate engineer of social work ended in 1982. With 30 years of experience in the field of social work, she participated in various meetings and symposiums of the Association of Persons with Disabilities and in order to promote the rights of persons with disabilities. The test found that Pekic-Knezevic had no prejudice towards people with disabilities and demonstrated a special ability to communicate with each other in a complex, patient and concentrated manner. Responsible and entrepreneurship, has been working with people with disabilities for years, and is familiar with their problems and specificities. The motivation for this kind of work is seen in the importance of changing society's attitude towards people with disabilities and raising the individual's consciousness to a higher level. It is also actively used in English and it is informationally followed. I would like to thank you for your attention, and I would like to ask the representatives, and here you are Vice President to appoint Deputy Attorney General and Deputy Attorney for Persons with Disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18269	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18270	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Attorney General, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, we have before us this extensive material that has been delivered to the Croatian Assembly by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities from whom it is evident that 7 persons who meet the conditions have been reported by a public call for the selection of deputies and deputy attorneys. But the D.A. spent an extra time saying interrogations. So she talked to the candidates. It was then conducted in the field of psychology, so the psychologist talked to the candidates, and a test was carried out in English language knowledge. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club believe that the Ombudsman chose well, i.e. after the test she had the opportunity to see which of the candidates indeed had the absoluteity to perform this honorable duty. The Ombudsman for people with disabilities is also a person with disabilities, so we are convinced that she recognized in candidates who have affinity, i.e. who has a sensitivity to the problem of people with disabilities. Following all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the prosecutor's proposal to elect these two candidates proposed by the Ombudsman for disabled persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18271	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18272	Sixth. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Deputy Advocate General and Deputy Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. Proposed by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities, the debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision to appoint Boris Jakov Geričić as deputy and Mira Pekic Knezevic as deputy attorney for disabled persons. Please, let's get involved and vote. What's the score? This proposal was adopted with most votes, 82 votes in favour, 26 abstentions and 1 against in the text as proposed by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18273	We are now moving to the next point - Proposals for a Decision on the resolution of the so far and the appointment of a new member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is the Proposer who proposed this decision on the basis of Article 16. Law on energy regulation. Proposer representative State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Tamara Obradović Mazal will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. By virtue of the Law on the Regulation of Energy Activities, the President and members of the Governing Council of HERA shall appoint the Croatian Parliament and the Council on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The member, one of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency appointed on time from one year, expires on 30 September of this year, and the next, the Government, at its meeting on 12 September, established a proposal for a decision on the resolution of the member so far, and laid down a proposal for a decision to appoint a new member of HERA. As the Government sent to the Parliament a proposal for a decision on the discharge of HERA's member of the Governing Council of Doctors of Science Milan Puharic, while also proposing the appointment of a member of the Governing Council of HERA Professor Ante Marusic, on a time of 5 years with a date of 1.10.2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18275	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18277	Seven. Proposal for a decision to resolve the current and appointment of a new member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Dr Milan Puharić as a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 28 abstentions and nothing against the resolved Milan Puharic is a duty in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint Professor Ante Marusic as a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 26 abstentions and nothing against the accepted appointment of Dr Ante Marusic as member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18278	Go straight on to this other one, to this one right now. The motion for a decision to declare "National Day for Epilepsy" is proposed by the Government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were held by the Committees on Law, Health and Social Care. You've received reports. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Dorica Nikolic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18279	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So before you there is a proposal that the National Day of Epilepsy be declared February 14th, so on St Valentine's Day. Epilepsy is the most common chronic neurological disease in Croatia and in the world and the World Health Organization in fact back in '97. She launched a global anti-steam campaign related to epilepsy and recommended the establishment of a National Day of Epilepsy. I must say that Croatia is in an environment and many countries in Europe one of the few who do not have a day of epilepsy because St Valentine is the 14th of February protector of epilepsy we suggest that this day be the National Day of Epilepsy and that is because in fact about 50,000 people with epilepsy in the Republic of Croatia, 3 to 4 thousand patients every year are newly diagnosed, and even 40% of such patients are under 18 years of age. However, given that Croatia also signed a memorandum of social inclusion, and since they were suffering from epilepsy because of their illness, which they showed in a study of Stigma and attitudes towards patients with epilepsy in the Republic of Croatia, which was carried out in January 2007 by the Centre for Epilepsy, Zagreb at 1500 healthy subjects at 450 locations throughout Croatia where it was shown that most of the respondents considered it to be a mental and infectious disease and that the patients should go to special schools. Many patients also do not have children because they think the disease is hereditary. So, because we really want everyone to be socially involved and that no one is due to anything stigmatized, and not because of the disease, even though it is chronic and incurable, but 80% of people who have this disease when they receive and they are completely controlled, they are actually in their lives, we can say that they spend one quality life, and when it comes to people who are employed, they really see that there are not a lot of illnesses or any kind of problems if they are controlled and the disease is controlled, and even there are regrets that many can't get a job, or that many do jobs that are less valuable than their professional equipment. So I ask the esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the MPs to support this proposal and yes, that Croatia joins the community of those countries that already have that day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18280	Thank you. Legislative committees? Work? Health and social policy? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18281	Dear Mr. Vice President, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Many people believe that epilepsy limits life’s prospects, but it is worth remembering that many famous people suffered from epilepsy, Julius Caesar, Peter the Great, Napoleon, Dostoyevsky, Nobel and Van Gogh. Moreover, they lived at a time when epilepsy could not be treated. Epilepsy is one of the most common neurological diseases. Nevertheless, the facts of this disease are still little known among the sick and in the overall population, which is not knowing much of the consequences of fear and certain prejudices. It's a Greek word that usually means epilepsy, which means seizures or possessions. It was first mentioned 500 or 700 years before Christ. The stone plate found in Babylon contains a detailed description of epilepsy, types of seizures, factors that cause it, signs after seizures, etc. Of the 40 records found that describe disease, they are already known at the time 4 or 5 are considered just epilepsy. The ancient Greeks believed that epilepsy was a supernatural phenomenon, a sacred disease, because only God can throw people away like that. However, Hippocrates, a Greek doctor, resisted that belief by pointing to natural causes. He's the first person to localize a brain disease. Over the next 2,000 years, there have been different theories about the development of this disease, according to one theory, patients are obsessed with evil souls or devils. This one prevailed at the time of Christ, the book of Mark, IX. Chapter. Today, there are two international associations in the world that strive to expand and complete their knowledge of this disease. The first is the Association of Professional International League against Epilepsy, which includes our Croatian League. The second is the International Epilepsy Bureau, whose member has recently become Croatia, the Epileptologists' Bureau gathers all interested in combating epilepsy. And what is the situation in the Republic of Croatia? We have about 50,000 people suffering from epilepsy, and each year about 3 to 4000 are newly diagnosed with as many as 40% under 18 years of age. Unfortunately, I have to say, as Mrs. Secretary said, although it is a common disease that many citizens face, this disease has been severely Stigmatised and patients are exposed to discrimination at home, during schooling and at work. What the polls have shown is truly devastating, as it should be pointed out that most respondents believe that epilepsy is a mental and infectious disease and that patients should go to special schools. Many patients also do not have children because they think the disease is hereditary. It was a major survey conducted by the Centre for Epilepsy of Zagreb on 1500 healthy subjects and at 450 locations in the Republic of Croatia. It should also be pointed out that unemployment among patients with epilepsy is at this point twice as high as the general population, and the patients often do jobs that are lower than those for which they qualify. The study results clearly show that patients do not have a greater number of job gaps or the quality of their work differs. More than 80% of epileptics are successfully treated so they almost never have seizures. Given what we know today about epilepsy, it's hard to understand that these people are still disfigured. So two are the most important causes, it's fear and lack of knowledge. Saint Valentine, the guardian angel of epileptics is considered a protector of epilepsy. Next, let us support the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to declare itself "the National Day of Epilepsy" on 14 February. I hope that the result will be a sure reduction in the discrimination of patients with epilepsy and improvement and the quality of their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18282	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18283	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. What is most important to emphasize today when we are discussing the day of "National Day of Epilepsy" is that there are many diseases that the public is not sufficiently familiar with, and precisely for reasons why such people do not know enough about the problem of epilepsy, discrimination, and just an example of epilepsy where some of the public-known persons have become involved in promoting this disease, it has shown that raising public awareness of the problem of epilepsy allows them to create a prerequisite that, with the quality treatment of this disease that has been provided in Croatia today, these people are equally involved in all those activities in everyday life from family life through schooling to work because this treatment allows them. So I believe that this decision, which we will undoubtedly make unanimously, will contribute to the creation of a prerequisite for a better inclusion of all people suffering from epilepsy in everyday life, with a particular need to point out once again that 40% of those under 18 years of age are, so that they can have quality schooling and start working relationships for that professional device they have acquired, will certainly be something that will allow these people to have a better quality life than they have at this point in particularly smaller environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18284	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18285	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I'll do with a few words. Namely, here is what is said, epilepsy is the most common chronic neurological disease in Croatia and the world. In the Republic of Croatia there are therefore 50,000 patients with epilepsy, and every year 3 to 4000 are diagnosed new and, unfortunately, up to 40% so younger than 18 years, which means that it affects a really young working-age population. And in that part, even though it's a known disease, etc. many of us have had and had the opportunity to see an epileptic attack and no matter what form it is, either generalized or focally it always sort of looks a little dramatic, etc. But it is necessary to say what is said, even though it cannot be cured, but it can be kept up to 80% under supervision by regular therapy and in some ways can be lived in quality. So let's say the health system works, diagnostics, therapy, medications, so what's the problem? The problem is that what Mrs. Secretary of State and colleagues said earlier, that this disease has been stigmatized by these people who have been affected, and these patients are exposed to discrimination at home, during schooling, of course, and at work. So if we remember that information that it's a working-age population, and we're going towards a reduction, and that's for sure all unemployment indicators, that part needs to make additional efforts. The World Health Organization is aware of this and therefore launched a global campaign in 1997 against epilepsy-related stimuli and recommended the establishment of a "National Day of Epilepsy" in each country separately depending on customs. The national day of epilepsy exists in all of us neighbouring countries, and in the Central European countries it is the 14th day of St. Valentine, which is apart from the protector of loved ones, protectors and patients with epilepsy. So, following the above mentioned Government of the Republic of Croatia, it proposes to declare itself on 14 February a national day of epilepsy, and as a need for conditions of destigmatisation, a reduction in the discrimination of patients with epilepsy and an improvement in the quality of their lives. So I have no doubt as the predecessors have said, that we will all support and, of course, reduce unemployment among patients with epilepsy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18286	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18287	Eight. Proposal for a decision to declare the national day of epilepsy. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day for Epilepsy. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that, unanimously with 113 votes, the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Epilepsy in the text was adopted as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18288	We'll discuss one more point. This is – - The proposal for a decision to declare "The Day of ties in the Republic of Croatia", proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, was delivered by the Government. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. Representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18289	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Committee on Education, Science and Culture at its 8th session, which took place on 24 September, adopted the Proposal for a Decision declaring the "Croat Day in the Republic of Croatia" and submitted it to the Croatian Assembly for adoption. Here's why. The Croatian origin of the tie is based on both historical and ethnological and linguistic facts. The tie is indeed, and in the light of our committee you have received an exceptional example of Croatian design. The Croats gave the world a tie, but other nations have perfected it throughout history, so it has become an exceptional symbol and a general symbol of class, a culture of dress, a fashion detail, but not only of men to whom it is most often, but also of women. At the end of the 20th century, ties returned to their Croatian source again. Since '90. We know that we are all celebrating Croatia as a homeland of ties and that is why we simply wanted it because on 18 October 2003 it was the day that the very famous installation was a tie around the arena, the pulse Arena, which marked in some way the beginning of the marking of the tie as symbols of Croatian cultural heritage and later, after 2003 almost always on that day, each year marks the tie as the day of the tie. The led committee made the decision at its session and proposed that October 18th simply be declared the Day of the Cows. It may be an incentive to others, to the European Union, and perhaps to the United Nations and others who truly mark the world’s tie as a special symbol for them to do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18290	I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richemberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18291	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As my colleague, Roksandić, has already pointed out on behalf of the board of directors, there are many reasons, as well as traces of us on the linguistic, ethnological pathway to the origin of the water tie towards Croatia. Of course, no one in this world wears a tie, does not tie it in their own way because, if it did, it came from Croatia and the fact is that it has long gone beyond what we say is a fashion detail. However, it is also a fact that Croatia and the Croats can and should be recognized through the works of the greats that we are proud of, from Faust Vrančić, Nikola Tesla, Lavoslav Ružičko, and to Andrija Printar, but we are equally happy if we can contribute to a civilization in which we live and those details, especially those who have the useful value, whose relatives, initiators, inventors, drivers or something like that were people from our homeland, so it was both about Penkali and the tie, anyway, but in any case we can look at it, of course and with a mockery, thinking that a trivial detail from our dress was raised to the level of day and to celebrate and mark, but we can also look at the fact that we are satisfied and proud that we have contributed to something beautiful and useful civilization in which we live, we can also think of economic, tourism, touristic, promotional, culturally speaking, in fact, the name of the Croats, to speak of the Croats, to speak. According to one, and it seems to me to be the strongest surrender, a tie is made from an earlier one called a Turopoly scrawny. It was a red scarf, with a right that girls tied to their husbands, boys going to war. More specifically, it was reportedly the scarf from Turopolje, through a Turkish bandery in the Croatian Army that joined the army of the then monarchy in the 30-year war, appeared in many European cities where the Croats fought, and especially when they clashed with the French, then there was a saying, they bonded their scarfs a la croat. It's a story of course. There are many myths, legends and stories in our history and some are nice to hear, but hard to prove. But soon, a romantic story about it will come out in a day, and I hope for a few months we can read the first novel about it from the pen of the great writer Bozidar Prosenjak, so when we already get the chance to take advantage of it and use it as one of the possible elements of some identity or promotion of what we are or at least what we want to be, why don't we take advantage of it. Especially when it gives space to entrepreneurs to develop their creativity, to make our name known and wider than our region and not only to be recognized by football but also by some other things that are a little less or a little more important or more important than it is. In this sense, as a representative from the 6th electoral unit as a representative from Turopolje, I want to convey to you a sense of pride to the people living in the area of the story of the beginning of the tie very much related to their origin. And in this sense, I certainly support this proposal and I pray that we vote this month 17 that from the next day in the Republic of Croatia the 18th will be an opportunity for those who think it is good, smart and useful everything they know about ties to show and take advantage of and show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18292	Thank you. Replica Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18293	Well, I won't be as lyrical as a colleague since I didn't sign up, and I've been challenged by local patriotism in a lot of expressions like this. First, I would like to stress that the tie tied around the Pula arena is sewn in Donjo Bedekovčina, the municipality of Bedekovina Krapina-Zagorska County. Another thing that I absolutely think is that there is little provocation and others when it is mentioned that some can treat it trivial in the world parliaments, city parliaments make daily decisions on the days of individual events, with certain activities. Here's a fellow Huška now gone we were in America when the capital of a state declared one day a day of heart patients. On which day you take action running, staying in the fresh air and so on. And I don't think that in Croatia we should run away from it and absolutely support what a colleague of Tesla's said from the day of some others not to list the famous people who have marked the history of the world and done for the world a lot, that they shouldn't run away, that they are also a small marketing "tricks", but a small nation has the right to small small marketing ventures that allow entrepreneurship to promote tourism and stay to the world that we care about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18294	Thank you. The Scots have a kilt, too. There's a little bit of a dilemma about a kilo under the kilt. The Welsh have a vice. Beneath the counter behind the kilt. I'm closing the debate. We continue the session, we interrupt it now and continue it tomorrow at 9.30 with a debate on that point 51st annual report of the Agency for the Protection of the Competition for 2007 and thereafter on the appointment of the president and part of the members of that council, and then immediately discuss the united debate on points six, seven and eight.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18295	Nine. Proposal for a decision to declare the Day of ties in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to declare the Day of ties in the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I note that, unanimously with 109 votes, the proposal for a decision to declare the Day of the Cow in the Republic of Croatia was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18328	Next item - Proposals for a decision on the resolution of the president and part of the members so far and on the appointment of a new president and part of the members of the Competition Protection Council Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is the Proposing Government who proposed this decision on the basis of Article 31. The law on the protection of competition. Representative, please? Here you go, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18329	In view of the fact that it is also on the agenda of the 6th session, the report would in some way be logical to discuss the report first before we resolve and appoint members, because the debate on the report should be the one that will result in giving new trust or mistrust to the current composition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18330	It's true that, at what point do you say it is? 51. Annual report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Competition for 2007, which are the reasons for, now according to this decision to resolve the current president and members and parts of the members and appoint new ones. Yes, this is now for the protection of the competition. If it's just the end of the term, then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18331	We also join this initiative, given that it is a resolution due to the termination of the mandate, but at the same time we have a decision to appoint in the same composition. It would be normal to discuss the 2007 report first, and then we have an appointment. And appointments. So, on the resolution and appointment of the new president and members.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18332	I see. Secretary of State, give me your comment, and we'll make a decision on this proposal by Mrs. and Mrs. Agents.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18333	Thank you. As we know, the report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency is submitted by the President of the Council, so in this case, Olga Spevec. The one I see is not present, and the Ministry of Economy cannot therefore assume that obligation. And as for the reason, we're talking about the end of the term of office. Therefore, this is the basis for the resolution as well as for the re-nomination of members of the council.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18334	I see. So the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency is submitted by Council President Olgica Spevec, and this proposal for appointment, is this a new one instead of Olga Spevec? Thanks for your help, but I can see that. [[/Intruder: No, Olga Spevec is confirmed. It's all the same, exactly the same.]] So it's not about, everything in the reassembly [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18335	That's exactly what this is about. In fact, the logic is that if the composition is changed, then so much just the report is not relevant for the impact on the future composition, but if it is about extending practically, or renewing the mandate to the same people, then the same president is the relevant document. Let's take it theoretically, don't let God make that happen so the report won't be accepted, and let's say the debate comes in a few days, and in the meantime, we give the same team trust again, there'll be a illogical break. So we would actually suggest that we try to avoid it. The honor of every member of the council, but we think the report makes sense if it affects the general assessment of the work of the council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18336	When does the term of office expire? The mandate expired yesterday. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That's exactly what I was gonna say. The council members expired yesterday. The report is in order for a few days, probably after this item of the agenda. I don't know who's gonna take it if there's no president or council members. And I can comment on the agency's report that received an extremely good rating on the boards, and I believe that most of the Parliament here will accept it as well as the government and the old and new members of the council that it proposes to appoint here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18338	Tomorrow we'll discuss that report to the Council for 2007, and then tomorrow we'll discuss this point. That's what we're postponing for tomorrow, and tomorrow we'll start with this work report, item 51. Tomorrow we'll start with point 51. We are going to the next item - Proposals for decisions on the resolution of the current president and part of the members and the appointment of a new president and part of members of the competition council. The applicant shall be the Government which has proposed this decision on the basis of Article 31. The law on the protection of competition. State Secretary, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Tamara Obradović Mazal will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Protection of Competition provides that the Competition Protection Council has its 5 members, one of which is the President, and is appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Given that this item under the agenda was to be discussed last night, however in accordance with the intervention, it is being discussed today after the discussion of the Report of the Agency for the Protection of Competition. I use the opportunity to thank the introduction into this point through really positive references to the work of the Competition Protection Agency that could be heard here. In this regard, due to the end of the term of office, the Government proposed to the Croatian Parliament the discharge of Ms. Olga Spevec from the post of President of the Competition Protection Council on 14 October. Also in the duties of members of the Council on 14 October, the Master of Science Nikola Popovic, PhD in science Mirna Pavletić Zupić, as well as Milivovo Marsic. At the same session, the Government proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the appointment of the president and part of the members of the Council for the Protection of Competition and, as follows, to Mrs Olgica Spevec to the President of the Competition Protection Council, and to the members of the Council of the Master of Science Nikola Popović, Science Doctor Mirna Pavletić Zupić as well as Mr Milivoj Maršić. I once again use the opportunity to thank the members of the Board of the Competition Protection Agency for outstanding quality of work for the strengthening of the competition in the Republic of Croatia, as well as personal and professional cooperation in the past 5 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18341	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18342	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It is a pleasant task to hold such a debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club at a point such as this, and this is a proposal for a decision to resolve the president and members so far and on the appointment of a new president and part of a member of the Competition Protection Council. These are proposals submitted by the Government of the Republic to the Croatian Parliament under the 2003 Competition Protection Act. It is a pleasant task primarily because it is visible from the reasons, and also from the debate on the first point that it is the resolution of the current President of the Competition Protection Council, Ms Olgica Spevec, and part of the members of the Competition Protection Council, that is to say, the decision to appoint the President and part of the Competition Protection Council, which proposes the appointment of Mrs Olgica Spevec as the President of the Competition Protection Council on 15 October 2008, as well as the appointment of members of the Competition Protection Council of Mrs Mirna Pavletić Zupić and Mr Nikola Popovic and Milivo Marsic. It is clear that it is the same persons as in the previous term of office and I believe that we will support their renouncing for a period of 5 years, which the Law on the Protection of Competition allows, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, after assessing their work in the past 5 years, has proposed. It is certain that the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have closely followed their work and performance results, as well as certain projections and plans for the future period, that they have been positively assessed and that the Government expects them to, as one of the candidates says in his résumé, and believes that, in the follow-up to the work of the Competition Protection Council, they would make a professional contribution to further development of the Competition Protection Agency and the affirmation of competition in the Republic of Croatia, in particular in the light of the upcoming accession of our country to the European Union. Such an opinion is shared by members of the Croatian Democratic Community club and fully supports the proposal for a decision to resolve the president and members so far and to appoint a new president and members of the Competition Protection Council and wish them successful in the next five-year period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18343	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-15-0.u18344	And the eleventh. Proposals for a decision on the resolution of the President-in-Office and part of the members so far and on the appointment of a new president and part of the members of the Competition Protection Council. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. First, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to resolve the president and part of the members of the Competition Protection Council. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 110 votes, and 2 abstentions, are nothing against the motion for a resolution. I would also like to vote on the proposal for a decision to appoint a new president and part of a member of the Competition Protection Council. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 97 votes in favour, 13 abstentions and 1 against the accepted proposal to appoint a new president of the Council for Protection against competition in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Gentlemen, MPs, everyone, good morning! We continue with the session and move on to the agenda point: - Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2007 Proposer of the Competition Protection Agency. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This year's report has been submitted by the Competition Protection Act. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was held: the Committee on the Economy. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. President of the Competition Protection Council, Ms Olgica Spevec. Here you go.
