ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18297	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs before you is the Annual Report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Competition for 2007 which the Agency, in accordance with the Competition Protection Act, is obliged to submit to the Croatian Assembly for adoption. First of all, let me refer to the basic tasks and obligations of the Agency and its role in the implementation of two laws: the Law on the Protection of Competition and the Law on State Assistance, and then I will introduce you to some concrete information that you can also find in the report itself. All activities of the agencies under their responsibilities since the establishment of the so-called 1997 to date have been implemented by a competition protection policy, it implements regulations aimed at creating conditions for economic growth based on the competitiveness and efficiency of the national economy. In doing so, the task of this institution is to implement this policy, i.e. to ensure equal market conditions for all market participants and to prevent any behaviour that may distort, limit or prevent competition and thus question the principle of free market and ultimately economic growth. Here we can say the control function of the Competition Protection Act trusts the Agency when it comes to the business of entrepreneurs, when it comes to agreements between entrepreneurs, abuses of the ruling position, or assessments of concentrations among entrepreneurs, or their mergers and takeovers. On the other hand, the agency also has a control function when it comes to the State aid Act which is entrusted to it for the purpose of granting and monitoring all forms of State aid which can unduly and selectively provide economic advantage to certain entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs, certain sectors and thereby distort the principle of free market, competition and the irrevocably spend taxpayers' money. It should not be forgotten that the Agency's work and its activities are also conditioned by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that Croatia concluded with the European Union in 2001, which imposes certain obligations in relation to the application of the rights and policies of the protection of competition but also against the institution whose job it is to implement these regulations. Also related to negotiations on the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the membership of the European Union the Agency has been entrusted with certain powers or tasks. As shown by the European Commission's 2007 Progress Report, the Agency can be satisfied with the results achieved in creating the current legislative framework and implementing rules in the field of competition protection. On the other hand, the detailed system of granting state aid and its implementation remain one of the priority tasks of this agency. There is also an expression of its other function other than that of control or regulatory, which is the responsible and active promoter of competition protection policy and the legally defined and transparent system of granting control and control of state aid. If the Agency's work were to be summarised in several basic points over the past year, it could be aware of the following: initiatives and activities on amendments and additions to the current Competition Protection Act, which was adopted in 2003, in order to eliminate the failures of the existing system most effectively. This refers specifically to giving authority to the Agency to effectively punish those entrepreneurs who violate the rules of competition and thus effectively act on the repeated ignoring of the rules of the game by some entrepreneurs. As they called the agency a tiger of paper given the importance of functioning of the market and creating equal conditions for all in the Croatian market, it is necessary to take seriously the violations of entrepreneurs and thus seriously punish them. In this regard, the establishment of a single and effective judicial protection system against the decisions of the agency, which, according to experts in this area and the experience of other countries, would most effectively be carried out by one court, which is the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia, seems to us an important step in the right direction. We must also not forget that the future Member State of the European Union is expected from the first day to be ready to participate in the common market, taking into account the rules of the game there. Furthermore, a special part of the time and human resources in the agency last year is dedicated to intensive cooperation with other regulators, i.e. institutions such as the Croatian National Bank, HAT and other regulators, so that they actually work together in cases where competition is disrupted. The third most often represents the most complex part of the work of this agency is the work of course on specific subjects or on the implementation of regulations. As I mentioned, it's about two laws. In the report you will find that 45 total agency employees with a budget of about 10 million kuna and about 5 million kuna received from the FAR received in the last year 302 items. Some 229 cases relate to the implementation of the Competition Protection Act. 217 of these were resolved, suggesting an increase in the agency's urgency. So we got to about 95% of all the items received were solved this year. In the past year we had, or in 2006, that percentage was 92% So we're trying to be as efficient as possible. Of course, the largest number of cases relate to the assessment of the concentration permit, to the determination of abuse of the ruling position and to the assessment of compliance of the agreement with the law. It must also not be forgotten, perhaps less exposed, but also an important part of the agency's work is to give an opinion on draft draft laws and other regulations, and in particular to give expert opinions on the demands of entrepreneurs that show a real increase we would say the awareness of entrepreneurs and trust in the opinions given to them by the agency in their business so that this number of cases is growing every year. The Agency is also conducting research into certain markets, as it did last year, investigating the market for audit services, and of course what I would like to particularly highlight is a large part of our activity aimed at concrete subjects. For example, when establishing a cartel agreement between 14 bus carriers on the establishment of a single price, we established a prohibited agreement. We also made decisions on the abuse of the ruling position by HT and T-Mobile, Press, Distri Press, etc. In the application of the State aid Act, the agencies closed 53 cases last year. You will find all of this in Appendix 7 of the Agency's report, of which, in addition to the approval of state support, a large part also referred to questions referred to by state support providers because it is relatively new matter in Croatian legislation, about a new system of support where both necessary cooperation and with ministries are needed, but also with authorities of regional, or local administrations, as well as with all those who grant or participate in the system of granting state aid. It is also important, therefore, to educate all of them on the possibilities of obtaining support that their potential users still lack knowledge of. Therefore, the Agency shall make sure that it has as direct cooperation as possible with state support providers, so that it organises regular coordination meetings and participates in various forums and in various ways actually provides and allows, for example, as in the wood industry, for entrepreneurs to receive support that is in accordance with the rules and which strengthen their competitive capacity. Although a positive shift in state aid policy remains to address a number of problems of granting state aid in activities whose business and survival on the market is traditionally dependent on State interventions and the system also needs to be brought into line with the support system. We know that there are still several industrial branches, namely shipbuilding where restructuring is essentially something that has no alternative and the agencies in this regard has been and will remain an active participant in the process, and is ready to cooperate with the government and with, of course, users and all those interested in ending this problem and to find a solution that will allow for further development of this activity, but on market principles. Of course, all these activities as well as the shipbuilding mentioned once they pass the restructuring process and stop doing business with the loss will be able to receive state support aimed at strengthening their competitiveness, such as support for innovation, research and development, environmental protection, new investments and the like. So, those that will facilitate their rerouting to new products and new technologies. The dynamics of the market economy are also unambiguously changing the rules on the protection of competition, so the Agency's obligation is to continue to monitor the changes in this area and to propose appropriate solutions together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in Croatian legislation that will allow for clearly defined transparent and predictable action, all for the purpose of effective protection and promotion of fair competition, market monitoring and integration of the Croatian economy into global economic flows and changes. I would also like to stress that the task of protecting competition is to protect the consumer and its right to choose. Protecting consumers does not necessarily mean protecting market competitors, competitors on the market. We do not want to and will not protect those entrepreneurs who are unable to offer products that are not and do not meet their needs both in terms of quality and price or innovation. If some entrepreneurs have to get out of the market because they are not good enough, they want to admit it to me or can't prevent the agency, because it's something that's an integral part of the market business. There, of course, we are no different from other countries. Limited sources of funding are known obstacles to bodies like this agency not only here, but in the world. Therefore, all our forces need to focus on creating such an implementing policy, which will only intervene where this will produce the most significant effects on the business of entrepreneurs and bring the most benefits to consumers. We need to keep this in mind, and we need to know that the Agency can be successful and effective only if it is followed by the other bodies of the institution involved in the same process of the regulator Government I have already mentioned. But there are courts, primarily courts. Much more important issues on which decisions must be taken by cooperating and prepared for joint steps, as the agency cannot be present at every place at the same time and face itself problems which are common problems for all state bodies and judicial authorities as well. So, legislation in this area must be promoted, not abandoned, but what we must do is actually ensure its effective application. So that's it. Predictability and transparency are extremely important for business and legal certainty on the market, and therefore this agency works not only through initiatives to improve regulations but also through the dissemination of a culture of competition to get to know the public, educate entrepreneurs, co-operate with consumer associations and all those who have an interest in this cooperation. However, the development of a culture of competition is a process. It requires time and cannot be realized within a few years. For us, the real question is how things are going to look tomorrow, or are we better today than we were ten years ago or yesterday. If we can confirm that, then we can conclude that there is progress and that this agency has a purpose of its business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18298	Thank you very much. Does the government want a representative? No, I don't. Does the rapporteur want a committee? Yeah. Chairman of the Committee on Economy, Mr Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18299	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament MPs, esteemed promoters. The Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament at the 14th session held on 16 September 2008 discussed the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2007. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the above annual report as a parent working body. The opening representative explained that the agency primarily deals with the evaluations of the restrictive agreement between entrepreneurs, by establishing the existence of abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs and by assessing the permitted concentration of entrepreneurs. It pointed out that the Agency’s basic tasks would be its preventive action and significant assistance in the work of the Agency would be if administrative courts in which the Agency’s solutions are resolved would impose stricter penalties, which would also be in the function of prevention and would certainly contribute to the reduction of infringement of competition rules. In the debate we also had the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 28 August. In the debate followed by all participants, they supported the report by assessing it professionally and thoroughly. The question of the existence of monopoly in Croatia has been raised, as the proposing representative replied that there are two main types of monopolys and this monopoly of efficiency, such as Microsoft with new products and monopoly based on state decisions, public enterprises, so Croatian mail, HZ, HEP etc. It should be pointed out that in the case of a state-based monopoly, the agency has the right to exercise control in the event of possible abuses. It is pointed out that under free market conditions, therefore free flow of goods and capital is harder to achieve any kind of monopoly. The question has also been asked how the agency resolves the conditional concentration of entrepreneurs, how it sees the same collection of all daily newspapers in the Republic of Croatia and whether it has ever reacted in the case of a possible monopoly of the tobacco industry. In her reply, the proposing representative pointed out that the agency had made a dozen solutions in the case of the tobacco industry, but that the courts had in no case imposed any penalty. As regards the conditional concentration of entrepreneurs, it has explained that it is an accepted standard and a labour rule in the European Union countries. Such a situation is largely determined by the fact that entrepreneurs in the European Union may, before taking decisions on the responsibility of the Agency, hold talks with the representatives of the Agency and propose solutions that prevent any illicit association. In this way, the agencies and entrepreneurs act preventively and the proposed solutions in advance remove possible negative effects. This practice should also become a common practice in the Republic of Croatia. As far as daily newspapers, medicines and books are concerned, they are in a specific position because of all kinds of public interest. Following this, the Agency shall consider individual cases from those activities as it has done in the event of a simultaneous and equal collection of daily newspapers from 6 to 7 kuna, although they were different newspapers. The applicant's representative also cited an example of the recent equivalence of food products in commercial houses, pointing out that there is a significant problem in assessing whether a competition has been disrupted when the same person and the owner of the trading house and the manufacturer of the products sold by that trading house. It is answered that the Agency's primary role is to prevent cartel agreements when it comes to price agreements. In order to prevent unauthorised cartel agreements, the Agency shall make different decisions and statements published in the national newspapers and professional texts. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a conclusion to adopt the Annual Report on the work of the 2007 Competition Protection Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18300	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18301	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State Mrs. Spevec with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. When we talk about the work of the Competition Protection Agency, when we talk about such an important topic, we must be aware that as Mrs Spevec mentioned in her discussion, we are talking about the interests of citizens, all citizens in the Republic of Croatia and we are talking about the interest of all entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia that there is a market, that the market is developing and that all entrepreneurs can ultimately participate in the market under equal conditions. On the other hand, only the market can create such conditions that Croatian citizens have quality services at the prices most favourable at the moment and that competition guarantees that they will be so. As stated in the Agency's report, implementation, and I agree, this opens the entire report, i.e. the SDP club agrees with this, the implementation of competition law and policies, the importance of the independence forces and the expertise of the market regulatory authority in implementing rules, fair competition with the ultimate objective of protecting consumers and ensuring free market access, i.e. free access to the market for entrepreneurs, are conditions without which cannot be met. Freedom of competition is crucial for all countries, as well as for our economies, based on the principle of free market rather than national interventionism. What we at the SDP Club are not satisfied with is that we are not satisfied with the situation, i.e. with the protection of the competition in Croatia. For what? We believe that neither Croatian citizens nor entrepreneurs, all entrepreneurs on the market fully benefit from this law that our country recognized 10 years ago, the establishment of the first commission, and then the agencies, and neither the implementation of the law in practice. There's more to it than that. So Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs do not realize the benefits that should be achieved through the implementation of this law. We primarily believe that this is the reason why there is no political will, that this positive law applies and that in Croatia we have a situation that our consumers on the market are protected. What am I getting out of, or where do you see it? If you will read more carefully in this report, the national regulatory authority has already established certain contacts with different state bodies, the Ministry of Justice, etc. in the last year 2007. and proposed amendments to the law adopted in 2003, which he considers to be the reason why it cannot effectively establish normal market relations in Croatia. The reasons are that, such as the practice in the European Union, this regulatory body could only sanction those who do not behave marketably, who abuse their position. And on the other hand, it could impose penalties on them, and on the other hand, we don't have what all European countries have, which is to protect so-called. whistles in the detection of cartel agreements among entrepreneurs. To reduce their sentence or to release them from punishment for it if they report that there is a cartel association. So, from this point on, we at the Club of Representatives of the SDP, we see that there is no will, political will in the Republic of Croatia to put an end to illicit behaviour on the market, to sanction cartel behaviour and to in some way protect the interests of Croatian citizens and Croatian businesses. On the other hand, when we talk about political will, I'm going to remind you of only two moments in the last year, I said in the first sentence we don't want state interventionism, we want a free market. I will remind you of two moments in the last year when after the election, so at the end of 2007, justified or unjustly jumped prices especially in the food trade, etc. And when we had situations that the state was communicating with entrepreneurs trying to lower those prices. They jumped some products 30.40%, as a rule a diet of 20 percent and then decreased by several percent, and it was presented as success. Is that how we provide Croatian citizens with better prices, better quality service? Could the state, even with this communication with entrepreneurs, create this framework and will Croatian citizens have lower prices? I believe that it is not because it is not the primary task of the state to negotiate with entrepreneurs about prices, but rather because it is the country's primary task to create a favourable environment and to adopt and adapt the Law on the Protection of Competition with European legislation, and that the regulatory body and the situation on the market determines that prices are best for Croatian citizens. So, in our opinion, we are going back to the story of last year's economy and state interventionism with such messages, and we are not going in terms of market development or the creation of a favourable market environment for Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian citizens. On the other hand, we consider this another example not to adequately punish those who violate the Competition Protection Act. This is very clear from this document, and when we look at the comparison of Croatia and Europe, here is an example. In Europe, 3.5 billion euros in fines have been imposed in the past year for such entrepreneurs who have violated the rules of conduct on the market. In Croatia, these penalties are symbolic, they seem to be moving at the level of a million kuna, which is one statement by the public Mrs. Spevec. But when you take some equivalent in Croatia when you apply it means European experience that would be about 200 million kuna, so something's wrong. Or in Croatia entrepreneurs tend not to break, which I don't think is because the market is more developed in Europe and there is more pressure on entrepreneurs to perform more correctly in the market than in Croatia, I think the situation in Croatia is much worse or something wrong. We don't understand the legislation or we don't understand it, the way we punish those who don't behave properly. So the difference is also evident in that sense. What I think is not good, and it has been happening in Croatia in recent years, usually small fish get hurt. And in this case, although we have in the report examples of violations of large Croatian companies of certain segments and laws and illegal behaviour on the market, some of them have violated it for four years. According to the report, from 2003 to 2007, there are large Croatian companies that have violated the system law and have in some way placed Croatian citizens in an unfavourable position. I don't see, or I'm not informed, and perhaps Mrs. Spevec will deny me that these companies have paid the fines they should pay. I'll give you another example. In the past year, one Microsoft has been punished three times by the European Union for its illegal behaviour, because it did not want to place within its software that everyone has access to those software that it did not produce. Then why do our companies go through only with warnings that they have to correct for four years, and why does it take them four years to remove these shortcomings? What we think and what we think the agency should pay more attention to is, above all, banning or disabling concentration where it puts Croatian citizens in an unfavourable position. In the report, you also have one example of merger or concentration in the trade branch where the agency has qualified it as conditional and will monitor for three years how things are developing and whether this employer, this entrepreneur, violates the law and puts others in an unfavourable position. So why did it even come to this situation that it must be brought to us to see and that it is even possible for him to put someone in an unfavourable position. Is this the only entrepreneur in Croatia who can invest in trade? We think that the agency can do much more in terms of protecting Croatian citizens in order to have a quality service and cheaper prices, we also think that entrepreneurs have equal and equal legal access to the market and the possibility of developing their jobs without allowing them to be more favourable on the market, but we believe that they must react more resolutely. Once the agency has the current law to punish someone who has not acted in accordance with the law up to 10% of traffic, so let the story be initiated and let it be seen if any of these larger players in the market have ever paid a penalty which is why they behave in a way that is not allowed. If someone in Croatia paid 100 million kuna, and such entrepreneurs are among those who violated the Competition Protection Act, I believe that such situations would be much less in the future and they would not accept the agency's opinion as if they themselves were not aware that they had done something that was not allowed and not allowed in countries where they also operate and where they came from. So it's not just a matter and it's not a matter to leave things to some entrepreneurs, but we should also create frameworks and ultimately prevent such adverse situations from happening in the future. What do we think we should do? It is primarily necessary to adapt legislation, to protect those people who are, as in other parts, we have had examples in the laws dealing with corruption, who would like to report illegal agreements that are most often also in Europe oral, very rarely have written arrangements... the behavior that I can report, that I can help the state agency discover. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, the legislation needs to be amended so that the agency can react without delay, give the punishment, and ultimately, that the punishment does not go on in courts for many years, because then some consciously calculate we go to court rather, there is even an age-old law defined by the law of 3 years, an absolute age of 6 years, as it all works out together, we may never even pay the penalty. So we believe that legislation should be adapted in this sense that the agency has the opportunity to cut off the penalty of one who does not behave in a prescribed manner and that the payment of the fine is not delayed by appeal, i.e. that it may appeal but that it must be within a more concrete period, not that it takes six years. And on the other hand, although we will have this likely case and in the next period does not allow for the creation of concentrations that can, not only which are clearly not allowed, but which can lead to certain entrepreneurs achieving potential in certain branches of the economy to go to the harm of other entrepreneurs fighting in that market. I'd like to do that briefly. We will support this part of the legislative adjustment around this report and we think it should be done, but in the end I will say we are not satisfied with the state of freedom and the protection of competition in Croatia. We believe that there is no political will to deal with it, and we should also think that it is one of the key things that Croatian citizens through prices, so if such a thing is regulated, through prices they can achieve as benefits to get services that are affordable, and with quality they meet their needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18302	Thank you. It's a little prolonged, but hopefully it'll be just an exception. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18303	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's counterpart Maras claims, clearly incorrectly, that Croatia does not want to change the situation, but that's why it does not want to protect whistles and so forth, which is not true. It is strange, however, that this comes from the SDP, which is best known for the whistle whistle, Vesna Balenovic, who discovered irregularities and thieving in INA, simply the SDP government forced her out of work and we know in which situation she was in courts and the like. The second inaccuracy is that the prices of the product remain high because the purchases were, as a percentage, higher than the percentage of the decreases. Here's a simple example for all our listeners and viewers. If a product of 5 kuna is collected by 100% he is 10 kuna, it takes only 50% reduction from 10 kuna to come to 5 kuna, so it should be cleared once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18304	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18305	Thank you. In 209 he was injured, didn't the gentleman correct the incorrect allegations, and as far as Mrs. Balenovic was concerned, the INA director who was the director of the INA today, who Sanader's government advocated to remain. So ask Mr. Sanader about INA's behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18306	Neither was nor was it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So you know. And it's no excuse if someone hurts the Rules of Procedure that I can go on, so we can move on, that all 153 can answer. Right? Let's not use that anymore. Let's move on. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18307	Dear Mr. President, Madam Representative of the Government, Agency, colleagues and colleagues. In a series of reports that we have in this session of the Parliament and a large number of reports waiting for us, and by listing those reports, I believe you agree with me that this report, a report on the work of the 2007 Competition Protection Agency, is one of the most qualitative and extremely clear, clearly written reports. In the opening part itself, this report is very clear in terms of the need for a reliable and predictable legal framework in order to carry out the Agency's tasks and to indicate the lack of a legal framework. It is obvious that this, as well as the need to comply with European Union legislation, should also be amended by the Competition Protection Act as provided for in the 2008 legislative harmonisation plan. Because the fact that no matter how well or professionally the agency works, if there is no transparent legal framework, that work cannot be done and effective. We also fully agree with the finding of our colleague Maras, which is that the Law on Competition is the interest of all citizens, the interest of all entrepreneurs and the area of competition in the process of approaching the European Union is of paramount importance, above all, for the timely preparation of Croatian entrepreneurs on the terms of business that apply to the single European market, but the harmonisation and constant adaptation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union as important and cannot be targeted in itself. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that this legislation is applied at the same time and that the continued institutional strengthening of the Agency as an institution which is tasked with carrying out these tasks is properly prepared by the Croatian judicial system for the requirements put forward by this legal issue. Also raising the awareness and level of knowledge and information of government and other state bodies, businesses, consumers, the judiciary and other public in the importance and role of policy and competition rights for the further development of the market economy in our country and its role in raising the competitiveness of Croatian entrepreneurs is of equal or even greater importance than the adjustment of the legislation in this area with the acquis of the European Union. Only insurance, the full effectiveness of implementing competition protection rules can be achieved only if two basic preconditions are met. The first is the effective work of the agency which will continue to be possible only if we enable this body to institutionally strengthen, a larger location of funding from the state budget so that an optimal number of employees can be employed and material resources provided for their work. The second prerequisite is somewhat more feasible, but it is an effective work of the courts that decides on the legality of the Agency's decisions. In the existing legal solutions, the solution is necessary for deeper changes in the Croatian judicial system, because the fact that the agency does not have the power to impose penalties, so despite the great effort of the agency, a detailed economic, legal analysis in each particular case of the Agency's solutions is more declarative. Unlike existing legal solutions in the Member States of the European Union, bodies related to the Agency have the powers to impose penalties and are therefore more effective than our agency. Furthermore, penalties on the basis of the agency's solution are imposed by misdemeanor courts, complaints against the resolution of the criminal courts are decided by the High Court of Violation Court of the Republic of Croatia, the appeal against the decision of the criminal court delaying the execution of these resolutions. On the other hand, the decision of the Agency shall be decided by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia on the legality of the decisions. Such an arrangement is followed by a general regulation of judicial protection against decisions by administrative authorities which we consider inappropriate in this case because it also does not provide quick and effective legal protection and leads to the legal uncertainty of the addressee of the rules on the protection of competition. The problems in practice, and they are largely clearly summed up and read from the report, is the long-term sustainability of administrative disputes, non-encouragement by law enforcement courts due to statutes, misdemeanor courts also avoid imposing penalties on the basis of the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Competition and use the possibility of easing penalties under the Law on Violation and impose inappropriately low penalties for serious infringements of the rules on the protection of competition imposed by other European countries with fines in millions of euros, not to mention in particular the report both the said and the cartel agreements and the prohibited concentration. In addition to these reasons, given that it is a commercial or economic problem, it would be more logical and an economically meaningful solution if jurisdiction had been defined if the jurisdiction of a court such as the Commercial Court in Zagreb had been defined, that the court should be the control of the legality of the decisions of the Agency and the control of penalties imposed by the Agency. Such an arrangement would be in line with European standards and would allow for systematic education and specialisation of judges. Today, it is impossible to educate all judges who will eventually be once and perhaps never in a career in charge of deciding on a very complicated subject in this area. Such solutions, such a solution do not have rich European countries either, but decide the legality of decisions by a related agency, not without reason, entrust one specialised court, for example, France as one of the European countries with the longest tradition in the application of this branch of law. It's final. The effective implementation of the rules on the protection of competition can only be achieved through a different treatment of the Agency, i.e. by its further urgent institutional strengthening and strengthening of its powers, above all, the right to impose penalties, i.e. by amending the applicable Law on the Protection of Competition and the Law on Courts, which will give jurisdiction to the control, legality of the decisions of the agencies and the control of penalties imposed. We in the Croatian People's Party will support this report with the faith that the political will needed to enable the Competition Protection Agency to work more effectively for our citizens as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18308	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18309	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representatives of the applicant in the report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency. In its 2007 work report, the Competition Protection Agency is in charge of implementing the Competition Protection Act as a legal person. In addition to showing its work and activities during 2007, it also showed progress made during the ten-year period of existence. With regard to the protection of competition in a narrow sense, which includes the assessment of the agreement between entrepreneurs of the abuse of the ruling position and the assessment of the authorisation of concentration and of the tasks relating to the implementation of the Law on State aid, the Agency is actively engaged in and the promotion of competition law and competition policy and, successfully, in part of its international activities, continued good co-operation with the European Commission and bilateral and multilateral cooperation with the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union. 40 agency employees in 2007 resolved a total of 270 cases. Also, 217 from the field of competition and 53 from the area of state aid amounting to 94.7% of solved cases. I am, therefore, surprised here to see the presentation of individual representatives especially Mr Maras who compares Croatia with other European countries, and he would insist that there be far more unresolved cases in Croatia and probably does not respond to what this Agency is really doing its job well and that it is really effective that I am here a little earlier and said. When we're talking about support, I'd touch myself here through a few words and say what are actually state support? In Croatian legislation, as are all real and potential expenditures and reduced revenues of the state allocated by the state support providers by granting benefits on the market to the beneficiary of state support regardless of the form of state support. State aid directly affects competition freedom and should therefore be monitored in particular in countries with a market economy. The ultimate objective of the control of state aid must be to gradually reduce and, of course, abolish them. State aid in the Republic of Croatia is regulated by the State Aid Act, which entered into force on 2 April 2003. When we talk about aid, I must also say that state support is considered to be all real and potential expenditure or reduced State revenue granted by state support providers that violate or threaten to distort competition by favouring the market for the user of state aid regardless of the form of State aid to which it may affect the fulfilment of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia arising from the Stabilisation and Extension Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and their Member States. Also when we talk about aid then we must mention that there are several types of state aid and these are regional state support, sectoral state support and so on. They're the most important, so I'm going to say a few words about state aids. This category of State aid is intended to promote economic development of an area with an extremely low standard of living or high unemployment. Regional State aid aims at all new investment investments and job creations related to such investment. When we talk about sectoral state aid, they relate to the general sector, to transport and to agriculture and fisheries. In the general sector: shipbuilding, steel, synthetic fibre production, audio visual production, broadcasting and production of radio and TV programs and so on. What is important to say about transport is that transport includes road transport, inland waterway transport, rail transport, maritime transport and air traffic. In agriculture and fisheries specific rules apply to this sector, so that, in accordance with both the Member and the item of support for agriculture and fisheries, they are not covered by this law and are not within the authority of the Agency. I must also say that in 2007 the Agency supervised state aid, which in any case the Agency approves and oversees the implementation of state aid and orders their return if it is given or used against the rules. If the Agency determines irregularities in the implementation of State support, it shall set a period of no more than 3 months for the purpose of removing identified irregularities by means of a solution to the donor or user. The Agency continued its work in 2007 with negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union in particular in Chapter 8. This is also the competition in the field of harmonisation of fiscal laws in the field of shipbuilding, steel industry, the adoption of regional support maps and similar to the preconditions for meeting the measures set out after the process of an analytical review of legislation. The process of strengthening the co-operation of the agency and state support providers has also been continued. Despite limited material and human resources, the agency has actively worked to improve the competition protection system. The system, however, needs to be improved by building up the legislative framework in such a way as to amend and supplement the current Competition Protection Act in order to enable an effective fight against cartels and all forms of abuse of the ruling position of individual entrepreneurs. In addition, it is necessary to introduce the possibility of releasing or easing a penalty to an entrepreneur providing the Agency with evidence of the existence of prohibited cartel agreements as an amendment to part of the procedural provisions in order to allow the conduct of the procedure in a way that is faster and more economical for both the Agency and entrepreneurs. The Agency's further work should be focused on the conduct of business and the conduct of procedures aimed at entrepreneurs and their associations, which prevent cartel agreements from developing effective competition in such a way as to share markets, negotiate product and service prices, and thus harm consumers, i.e. users of these products and services, and affect inflation growth. The Agency should also focus its attention on large market power entrepreneurs, who abuse this force, impose unfair conditions on suppliers such as high margins that enter naturally through goods on shelves, etc. In order to prevent a proportionate spillover of the benefits of the competition on consumers in order to train the agencies to carry out these activities, the Government will also provide for conditions for the development of this institution whose activity is of paramount importance for the development of the market economy in the Republic of Croatia as well as for Croatian citizens who are most often victims of the behaviour of entrepreneurs who are putting their behaviours at risk the freedom of competition. I would also say here a few words that the agency also had international cooperation, which is very important in 2007, and in part of its international activities, the agency continued to cooperate well with the European Commission, among other things through the internship of two employees in the general competition administration, and, on the other hand, further strengthened cooperation with the relevant authorities of the countries of the region. The implementation of the largest part of the CARDS, European Union aid projects has been completed, and the PHARE project has been launched in the area of competition and state aid. The training of the Agency’s professional service and other participants in the competition system was continued both within the framework of the projects and through the organisations responsible for issues in this area. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the 2007 Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18310	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Lucic, said that the SDP, or SDP's club, is not responding effectively as he says 250, 220 now cannot remember exactly the figures. Not a fellow Lucic exactly the opposite. The SDP would also be pleased to see that those entrepreneurs, not only the small ones, but those who are even more significant punishments, are no longer thinking about being unauthorized on the market in the coming years, as has been written in the report for 4 years by a large company. Exactly the opposite of fellow Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18312	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. Then Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18313	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues from the Government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. As the predecessors have already said, the work of this agency is a good part, and they have in mind the development of the Croatian economy in the focus of both the Croatian public and even more related to the professional assessment of their work itself. The introduction already said that this agency has been working in this form for more than ten years, which means that certain birth pains have passed in its work, and the consequences, in view of the fact that the Croatian economy itself has been developing since that war and the first postwar period, during this time which is now current, and it is well related to the rounding of a particular sector of the economy, especially that of the serviced type. It is clear as in the specifics of its work that the Agency is in charge of implementing both the Competition Protection Act and the State Aid Act. Here and all the speakers so far, or at least to a greater extent, have expressed their gratitude about the work of the agency itself, with respect to the fact that I am the work of the agency and its services in its finality must also have quality measures which are then certainly within those criminal limits and at the appropriate levels of penalties for non-compliance with the provisions of those decisions made by this agency. The Agency, with the very affairs of competition in that narrow sense, is primarily an assessment of the agreements between entrepreneurs themselves, abuse of the ruling position, and an assessment of the authorisation and concentration it performs and of the tasks that the colleague said on behalf of the club. Therefore, matters particularly related to the Law on State aid itself, and it also gets a stronger and more important role in co-operation with the European Commission, both bilateral and multilateral, especially in part of those activities related to state aid and state subsidies related to the economic sectors in Croatia, which are burdened by the competition and are in a relatively difficult situation when it comes to enforcement, in particular we think of shipbuilding and similar industries. Of course she did, and this is also seen in the field of harmonisation of the fiscal laws themselves, and I think it is one of its dominant roles when it comes to protecting competition. Having in mind my previous work and prior to politics actively participating in the economic and economic life of this country, I will make several comments about a segment of her work that has been linked in recent years to the accumulation of part of the Croatian economy, i.e. especially that of the service type, which is a large or larger number of new trade chains that are actually coming into the Croatian area, should certainly increase the competitiveness of the offer, which should be of the greatest benefit to Croatian consumers, i.e. Croatian citizens, and that is fine. At the same time, however, it is very important that both these trade chains and service organisations treat Croatian suppliers, i.e. their partners. I hope and actually ask that it be a large part of the Croatian businessmen because foreign chains bring with them imported goods, but first of all, putting themselves in a position of great condition for certain business things that should not normally be carried out, and that is, above all, extra and use beyond the usual context of business. I will say additional blackmail on the entry of certain goods onto the shelves, which further impoverishes the production brand itself and generates extra profits and extra profits just like these chains. Certainly, the business of assessing such events is relatively difficult because business operators and they find it difficult to decide on certain types of applications precisely by fearing the results of these and such investigations because in the good part they can lose jobs so when we talk about some labour-intense industries such as textile or some other then commercial segment of consumption takes up a large part of their production, it is year-round and puts production into a difficult position, and when it comes to this model and this way of behaviour of business operators. Here I think that such a framework of legislative resolution, and in the subtlety of the Agency's work, needs to be found to protect the manufacturer on the one hand, and, on the other hand, certainly within normal competition, respect the free market. If we add here today intensive activity about narrowing down the problem of recession, which inevitably comes within the context of the world, European and Croatian frameworks, then this gets even more of an additional, special and greater weight, and I hope, and I believe that in the time ahead, the agency will find ways and models to ensure that, in the context of the existing regulatory framework, the protection of Croatian consumers, as well as all kinds of Croatian economies, and on the other hand, in the proposal and the new legal frameworks, find ways to make this aware in a measure that is appropriate to the uniform development of the economy. And I'm going to end up with another one of my comments, and it's about the seriousness of state aid itself, that is, because at a time when these countries support companies create a potential of competitiveness beyond what is common, then through that state aid itself, which is the means of our taxpayers and we put them in a better and better position than would be common, and therefore I also point to the need for a really professional relationship between the bodies that determine and control it, which is again a good part and the agency. And by finishing the presentation, I find this report to be accepted and voted by the agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18314	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18315	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the agency, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2007. The Agency shall carry out market competition protection and surveillance, enforcement and recovery activities in accordance with the provisions of the Competition Protection Act and the State Aid Act. The Agency’s operations in 2007 focused significantly on achieving the objectives set before the Republic of Croatia as conditions for opening negotiations on the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union in Chapter 8. During 2007, the Agency worked intensively to prepare and amend and supplement competition protection laws as well as other rules to ensure effective implementation of the competition protection system. The agency also dealt with items from its work cycle. Even though she's faced with the draining of personnel mostly in the private sector. The core part-round of the Agency in implementing rules on the protection of competition consists of administrative transactions covering the following areas. Assessments of restrictive agreements between entrepreneurs, determination of abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs, assessment of the permitted concentration of entrepreneurs. In 2007, the agency increased the level of urgency so that the execution rate is almost 95% of the cases solved, which is commendable for each. As for the assessment of restrictive agreements between entrepreneurs, the agency received 4 cases during 2007 and successfully solved all 4. With regard to abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs, the agency has received 12 requests, solved them all, and in three cases it has identified the abuse of the position. It is significant to point out that entrepreneurs are acting on issued solutions by the agency, although most of them are also complaining to the administrative court. The assessment of the authorisation of the concentrations of entrepreneurs of such requirements during 2007 took 29 and 24 assessed the authorised and found that they would not cause negative market effects, and only two concentrations required detailed analysis of the legal and economic relevant markets on which the concentration has or may have an effect. As regards the Agency's activities in the field of State aid. State support within the meaning of the State aid Act shall be considered to be all real and potential expenditure or reduced State revenue granted by state aid providers which distort or threaten to distort competition by favouring the market for the beneficiary of State aid regardless of the form of State aid to which it may affect the fulfilment of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia arising from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union and its Member States. The Agency therefore approves and oversees the implementation of State aid and orders the reimbursement of State aid granted or used against the rules. If the provider, i.e. the State support user does not remove irregularities within that time limit, the Agency will order the reimbursement of the amount of State support in the area of irregularity. In 2007, the Agency launched three procedures to monitor the implementation of State aid. The Agency should continue to improve the competition protection system by building a legislative framework. The effective and effective implementation of regulations in the field of competition protection and state aid should also continue to strengthen the professional and administrative capacity of the Agency to work on the most complex subjects in the field of competition protection and state aid. Full harmonisation of legislation with the rules on state aid applicable in the European Union in the field of fiscal support and the harmonisation of all remaining support schemes listed in the list of State aids which do not comply with the European Union rules. The adoption of legal solutions that will allow effective control of competition especially when it comes to penalties and judicial protection. These are also the obligations under Chapter 8 of the negotiations with the European Union and I am confident that the agency will successfully implement them, and I remain in favour of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18316	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18317	Dear Mr. Croatian Parliament, Ms. President and other representatives of the Competition Protection Agency, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are today discussing the 2007 Report of the Agency for the Protection of Competition, which the Agency has provided us for two basic reasons. So, on the one hand, because this is an act prescribed by the Competition Protection Act, and on the other hand, I would particularly like to commend from the intention of ensuring transparency of the Agency's work and its openness to the business and the overall professional public. The freedom of competition is crucial for all countries, as well as for the Republic of Croatia, which is based on its economy and its development on the principle of free competition, and not on state intervention, which generally leads certain entrepreneurs or sectors to a preferential position compared to others, thereby derivating laws and market equality. The Agency for the Protection of Competition, which represents a legal person with public authority, was founded on the basis of the decision of the Croatian Parliament and began its work more than 10 years ago, so in 1997, and its basic tasks, its basic tasks are related to the protection of true competition and the surveillance, enforcement and return of state aid provided by the Law on the Protection of Competition and the Law on State Aid. In its 2007 work report, which I can say with full responsibility that it is truly comprehensive and quality, the Competition Protection Agency, with its work and activity in 2007 has also shown the progress made during the ten-year period of action in raising awareness among state bodies, justice, academic community and what is most important for consumers and the public about the role and importance of competition. The report shows that, with respect to the protection of competition in a narrow sense, the Agency, which includes evaluations of restrictive agreements between entrepreneurs, abuse of the ruling position and assessment and control of the authorisation of concentrations and transactions related to the implementation of the State aid Act, is actively involved in promoting competition rights and policies and continues in part of its international activities successful and good co-operation with the European Commission as well as cooperation with the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union in this area both at bilateral and multilateral level. With its 40 employees, the Competition Protection Agency resolved a total of 270 cases in the area of competition and 53 in the area of state aid, which represents a high 94.7% of the cases solved, which is indeed commendable. In 2007, the Agency continued its work on negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, in particular in Chapter 8, competition in the field of harmonisation of fiscal laws, shipbuilding issues, steel industry, the adoption of regional support maps, etc. The quality legal arrangement of these areas is a prerequisite for meeting the criteria set by the European Commission following the completion of the process of the analytical review of legislation, so-called "the European Commission". screening. The process of strengthening the co-operation of the agency and state support providers at all levels has also been continued. Through effective implementation of the system of application, approval and supervision of approved state aid through the established permanent working group and in cooperation with the Committee on the Monitoring and Preparation of the publication of rules on State aid to the European Community in Croatia. Despite still limited material human resources, the agency has been actively working to improve the competition protection system in the Republic of Croatia. However, this system should continue to be improved by the addition of the legislative framework, i.e. to amend and supplement the current Competition Protection Act in a way that will enable an effective fight against cartels, so the concentration and all other forms of abuse of the ruling position of individual entrepreneurs. In this context, it is necessary to introduce the possibility of releasing or easing a penalty to the whistle-blower providing the Agency with evidence of the existence of prohibited cartel agreements and to amend part of the provisions relating to the procedure itself in order to enable it to be managed in a manner which is both for the Agency and for entrepreneurs to be significantly faster and more economically. The Agency should focus its work in the next period on the conduct of operations and the conduct of procedures aimed at entrepreneurs and their associations which, by mutual arrangements or cartel agreements, prevent the development of an effective and free competition through the mutual division of market and product price arrangements, because this is the way in which consumers or users of their products and their services are harmed, and also affects the growth of inflation. I also believe that the agency should focus more on large market power entrepreneurs, who abuse that force and their monopoly position on the market, impose unfair conditions on suppliers such as high margins, policy entry fees and the like, which has been mentioned several times during this debate, which make it impossible to equate the benefits of free competition with consumers. Finally, in order to train the Agency to carry out these activities, the Government will have to create and ensure conditions for the further development of this institution whose activity is of paramount importance for the development of the market economy in the Republic of Croatia, as well as for Croatian citizens, so consumers who are most often the victim of the behaviour of entrepreneurs who knowingly endanger the freedom of competition by their actions. Because the report shows a significant step in the segment of the development of freedom of competition, and for the reason that I initially said, which says that the report of the Competition Protection Agency is indeed comprehensive and quality, I will personally give my support for its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18318	Thank you. It just expired at 10.56 hours to report 10 minutes. And Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18319	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. By discussing last year, we're trying to ask ourselves whether we're satisfied with market relations. I'm just going to try to evaluate some segments of the market from that aspect, first of all, the food market and try to tell if it's all done by the Commission that we have quality relations on the food market. It is evident that we are more expensive than the environment and it is evident that the relationship between the store and the manufacturer is not good quality. And it's obvious that there's monopoly behavior here, perhaps cartel behavior. And the answer is there, the commission hasn't done enough. Let's ask ourselves why. We have witnessed a discussion about whether there is a monopoly in the store, but it is evident that on such a number of chains there is no monopoly in the store, but there is a monopoly behaviour of traders towards manufacturers because at the same time the traders are producers. So let's open up their contracts and see what you see in those contracts? Food manufacturers, in order to be in domestic stores, pay enormous additional discounts, pay special contractual obligations and what is unacceptable, payment deadlines are economically unsustainable. That's the state of the store. This is the situation in the relationship of contracts between traders and producers. That's what the board members know. At the same time, food producers in Croatia often use these traders to buy half-products from them for their production. Then let's look at the contracts. There are no additional discounts, no contracts, no current payments and no counter-deliveries. It is a relationship on the Croatian market. That's what every one of us knows who deals with the economy. Do the members of the committee know that? They know. Is that market behavior? It's not. And that's why Croatian citizens pay for expensive food. That's why they pay for expensive food. These are evident disturbances that, at the moment of the rapid rise in food and inflation prices, also have a consequence of the poverty of the population, the citizens of Croatia. For this reason, I believe that the commission must do something about it because it has powers to change. It must enter into contractual relations between traders and producers, it must go towards those who, in their same companies, have both trade and production because it is evident that there are no regulatory market relations in that part. These things have to change this year if we don't want further problems, because the problems will feel like ever-increasing indifference, the growing problems of non-payment, and, of course, at that moment, further collection of costs of production. Further gatherings that are not the result of work but not of market relations in Croatia. Is it possible to change that? It's obvious. And it is evident that the Commission, or the Competition Agency, must enter these contracts and must find, I would say, a way to sanction the behaviour of individuals in Croatia. At that moment, we will also have the thinking of the manufacturer that if they are allowed to have a regular relationship on the Croatian market, they are beginning to think about increasing exports. Because essentially exporting is a burden on the manufacturer who is very competitive in Europe, but he cannot afford it because he has problems on the Croatian market as well. And we in that part, even though we have institutions, do not work to protect the interests of domestic producers. We're not working. And it's whether or not it's about supplies, is it about... Production, is this about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is why we, in the SDP, want to say that regardless of the fact that there are shortcomings in legal regulations and giving greater authority to the members of the Agency, it is evident that they must do more in this part of the Agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe two more words about and relations on the car import market. We have more and more of those who have a monopoly position as an importer, are only one, but these same importers appear as small traders, dealers who sell and essentially destroy competition among car dealers. And it's a phenomenon that is present, that monofil the position of the only importer they use to have an impact on car retailing. And in that part, I expect the agency to turn around and start checking out what's going on in the car markets. And thirdly, I estimate that the agency should not have given permission for certain traders to expand their activity and to trade that is facing the media area, because it is very risky. Extending the ability to act as a monopolies, while at the same time it is a problem of both advertising and advertising competition. I believe that such an act of permission has made it difficult for the agency to do its job and will have a very difficult job, because it will be impossible to meet its requirements. And it is evident that there will be a breach of the permits the agency has given. And all of this has an impact on higher food costs in Croatia and on the difficult living conditions of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18320	Thank you. SDP club. We're terminating the debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18321	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Mrs. Spevec, colleagues and colleagues. Here's at the end of this debate just a few sentences in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. The first is that as I said in the introduction, we are not satisfied with the situation in certain branches of the economy and with the situation on the market in certain branches of the economy, and therefore we will be restrained about this report. We want to give a clear message to the Croatian citizens when you see the Government calling for a price deal, know that this is not going to your advantage. There is no government to negotiate with entrepreneurs on the price market. You've all paid for it in advance. So what I'm saying is, the government is not an entrepreneur, the government is here to create a framework. The government was 5 years old since 2003 when the law was passed, to bring about changes that would allow the agency to have greater powers, to control what is happening on the market and sanction those acting inadmissible. That the government has a duty to do, I'd say. And this isn't her job. So there's nothing to negotiate prices with individual producers, traders, etc. And then it represents a great success. And after all, these merchants are using it in their marketing campaigns, as here we have lowered prices, we understand problems etc. as if they had not already made a certain profit in advance that allows them to behave accordingly. Therefore, a clear message that the SDP Representatives' Club will support the amendments to the legislation and we call on the government to do so. In 2003, 2008, five years had already seen this as a failure and nothing had changed. The Agency has already been in communication with the Ministry of Justice as we have seen from the reports, I do not know what it takes 2 years for some of the things that European legislation also knows to be included in our legislation. Some things we do overnight, then we change in a week, and this is very important we haven't done. And finally what the agency may not now have in its power, means that sanctioning it directly, but I think it should work more to prevent concentrations that may be questionable. There and now fellow Linic mentioned one such, who will tomorrow establish whether it is a concentration which perhaps in advertising will be controversial, because let's be, I think a public document... And advertising space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tomorrow someone can also open an agency that will deal and is a larger owner in... advertising, creating problems that the agency will not simply be able to control. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And especially not to talk about trade and about controlling the use of that position in trade is almost impossible. Such concentrations of the agency already have the opportunity to disallow and should do so in the future. So in the end here I say we will be restrained about the report, but we look forward to a proposal from the Government and we will support it if there is no proposal from the Government, it will be proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club in order to improve this law and in order to ultimately be enforceable in practice for the benefit of Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18322	Thank you. Does the government's representative want to? State Secretary Tamara Obradović Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's really very short. First, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who positively assessed and accepted the report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency, I take the opportunity not only to congratulate on good work, on good indicators, on good results, but also to highlight the role of the Competition Protection Agency which may be somewhat less heard, and it is unusually important for us in view of the weight of the work that the Agency faces, which is its educational role. And on this occasion, I would like to thank the representatives of the agency for their selflessness in consulting in meeting the really great challenges we have in our business and in this segment, the experts at the Competition Protection Agency are not really saving their time and their good will and in order to share their expertise with everyone who needs it. In this segment, I would just like to look back on two things, which is that, as we have already heard in individual discussions, the Government will refer the new proposal of the Competition Act to the Agency, which has shown since 2003 the need to give stronger, larger powers to the Agency. Over the past 5 years, the agency has gained both strength and visibility, but above all, the professional experience that needs to be done in dealing with matters under its jurisdiction. In that segment, sentenceing will definitely be one of the biggest novels that we will yet propose to future amendments to the law. As the current draft law stands, we go so far as to punish the potentially punished, so illegally punished entrepreneurs on a special account will pay the amount of fines that will increase by a certain amount of interest, reduce or return if it is proved that the entrepreneur was unfounded. Since "whispers" related to cartels have been mentioned, just to look at the fact that the European Union has been working out its "whispers" scratch in cartel agreements since 2001, so in the full range of dealing with the "whispers" issue under cartel agreements, the European Union itself has only had practice for 7 years, we will sum it up in amendments and additions to the law. Finally, I would also take the opportunity to address our listeners and viewers as a representative of the SDP club, Mr Maras, to tell them that the government will always, in their interest and in the interest of the standards of our citizens, always use the instrument of calling the price monitoring committee to directly hear the reasons from market participants, discuss the reasons why, why increase prices, where to find and how to find a place to lower them? The government is sensitive to the standard of our citizens. It will continue to use a price monitoring committee to see first hand directly from participants in our economic market what reasons it has shown its sensitivity to the standard of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18324	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18325	Thank you very much. I would only correct the incorrect assumption that by agreeing such prices with entrepreneurs on the market the government is going in the interest of Croatian citizens. That is not true, and that is so, it is evident that more and more Croatian citizens are going to buy goods, supplies daily outside our country. I mean Slovenia first. So that can't be the way the government works. The government is creating a framework, yes, yes. The government creates a framework and does not create and is not an entrepreneur on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18326	Comrade Maras, that's comment one. Comrade Maras, please, that's comment one. You're making your point of view and your point of view. You know Ingrid what that is. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18327	Ten. Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2007. Proposer of the Agency for Protection against Competition. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote a consensus on the conclusion of the home working body. The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2007 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 32 abstentions are accepted Annual Report on the work of the 2007 Competition Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18345	We are now going to a united debate on the points - The report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2007 - The report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2008 The First President of the National Committee, Ms. Vesna Pusic, will present a proposal for a report for both parts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18346	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. You've received two reports on the work of the National Committee. I note here and underline that this is the result of exceptional circumstances. The decision to set up a National Committee for the Monitoring of Accession Negotiations of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union provides that the National Committee shall report to Parliament, the parliamentary body and the form of parliamentary oversight of the process, that Parliament shall report every six months on the work it has carried out. However, by obtaining extraordinary and sad in some cases circumstances, the 2007 report has not been submitted so that we have now proposed a report to the Parliament for 2007. As you know in 2007 in the last year of the term of office of the last Parliament and the last National Committee, the president of the National Committee was Mr Ivica Racan first. After his death, the leadership of the National Committee was temporarily taken over by the vice-president of the National Committee, Mr Luka Bebic. In the second half of the year, the presidency of the National Committee took over the newly elected SDP president, Mr Zoran Milanovic. In the meantime, there were elections at the end of last year so that there was no fulfillment of this reporting obligation and therefore this report is now ahead of us and I will only sum up a brief warning you of the main points of this report. Then I'll be more dedicated to the report for the first six months of this year. So in 2007, as you can see from the text you've been given, the National Committee held 7 sessions. In 2007, 11 chapters were opened and temporarily from our famous 33 real and 2 technical and closed temporarily 2 chapters. These are Science and Research and Education and Culture, chapters that did not have an opening or closing criteria. From the open chapters, in chapter 11, 2007 The European Union has established criteria for 11 chapters. You further have a brief summary of what happened at each of the 7 sessions of the National Committee in 2007 and then you have a summary of the changes that occurred or the status of all of the 33 chapters and that is the longest part of this report. Finally, the 4 points also talk about the additional activities of the Committee or of the President or of the Chair of the National Committee during a given period. These are mainly international meetings, whether chaired or whole of the National Committee with individual officials of the Member States or of the European Union. The end of this 2007 report stresses that the National Committee has had, expressed its satisfaction with the co-operation with the main negotiator and with the negotiations so far and with high quality co-operation with the negotiating group and the Office of the Chief Negotiator. It's mostly 2007. For the first six months, of course from now we will report to this Parliament every six months. Introducingly, I'd like to say that in some ways this report has always been a little late for the occasion. It was completed and handed over in early July of this year, however, and it was already a little late because the dynamics of the negotiations are now such that fortunately at this time the situation is quite different from that described in the report, as it refers to the first six months of this year. However, it is important that Parliament monitors. I'll say and briefly in the end just a few words about where we are today although of course it will be an integral part of the report for the other 6 months. But since we're talking about this here, it might be good to know where we are today. The functioning of the National Committee, of course, as you all know, and the existence of the National Committee at all is the result I would say the first serious consensus in Croatian politics that we have called all together and we call the Alliance for Europe but de facto politicalally considered the first real consensus after the Homeland War on some strategic political goal of Croatia. In this respect, the National Committee, of course, also plays an important role in trying to keep this consensus at work, at work until the end of our negotiations and until Croatia joins full-fledged membership of the European Union. It is a body that no Parliament, not in any Member State, so of the 27 Member States that the European Union has at this time, such a body did not exist in any Parliament, and especially given the fact that the negotiating positions are approved, discussed and approved by the National Committee in the principle of consensus, so in translation, this means that each member of the National Committee has the right and the possibility of vetoing every negotiating position. So, so far, but already after these six months, in all our discussions with some of course modifications, we have succeeded within the National Committee on this principle of consensus to approve 31 negotiating positions. However, to return to the report itself. In the meantime, I'm asking for an apology, and I'm warning you of two errors that have been made in the copy. The first one is on page six, where under Chapter 8. – The market competition was mistakenly put the wrong text in Chapter 5. – Public procurement, so the text should be read, of course it refers to competition, and to Chapter 5. – Public procurement and in this chapter competition we got four, I repeat four criteria for opening. It's like you know one of our most complicated and difficult chapters. And the second mistake is on page eleven, where in chapter 28. – Consumer and health protection is listed as one criterion, and we did not get one closing criterion, but we got four closing criteria. These may be technical details, but given the accuracy of the data you have, I think it's important that I warn you. Short on the status of the negotiating process on the day of the election, i.e. my President, Vice-President and members of the National Committee on 20 February 2008. At that moment, two chapters were closed, 14 chapters with closing criteria were opened, and 17 chapters had not yet been opened. During that period, the Croatian Parliament also adopted a bill on harmonisation of legislation, i.e. the law of the Republic of Croatia, with the acquis of the European Union and planned to adopt 121 laws under that plan for 2008. Until 20 February 2008. The National Committee gave its opinion on 22 negotiating positions at different stages. Some of them were coming back, of course, because there were additional demands from the commission. So, since the election of the National Committee in Parliament on 20 February, by 30 June, a total of 6 sessions of the National Committee were held, plus one session where members of the National Committee received a negotiating position, but because of the speed and urgency, the need for urgency of the procedure, I will also say something about it, after reading the negotiating position, they agreed to this form by consensus and gave their consent by telephone. In the entire report you received for the first 6 months of this year, there is a re-description of each of these sessions held by the National Committee and there is a description of the events and developments in certain chapters that Croatia is negotiating. I must say that at its first session, the National Committee also adopted a work programme that was somewhat extended in relation to what the National Committee had been doing until then, because we came to the conclusion that, of course, everything within the framework of the decision to establish the National Committee that in its first term, the National Committee was in the first place a major newspaper in so much that it symbolized a consensus regardless of the party differences and the difference between the position and the opposition and, in that sense, it largely fulfilled its function by formalising the consensus that was reached in Croatia. In its second term, the National Committee cannot, of course, deal exclusively with the role it has already done in some way or with the task it has already done in some way, so it is with a regular job which is its basic task, which is the debate and adoption or not, of course, the negotiating positions with which Croatia is presented to the European Commission and then to the European Union in Brussels. The National Committee has also decided to join the organisation of roundtables, as following the decision of this National Committee session or their cameras, they are closed because it is considered that during the stage of the preparation of the negotiating positions some of the requirements or positions that Croatia will take in those negotiating positions, they are not, of course, definitively, because the European Commission will then come to their negotiating position. I believe that this is a topic which can be discussed of course but the decision is conceptually ours so far that the meetings of the National Committee are closed and precisely because we are a parliamentary body, we considered it important to consider some of the topics which are of particular interest to the Croatian public which in some ways I would say neglected in the clear communication of our European objectives and advantages and reasons for Croatian membership or accession to the European Union, that it is important to open some of these topics to the public and that it is important to include so-called. staffholders or simply representatives of all interested groups in society in the debate on certain topics. We have made that decision on the National Committee and organized in the first six months one such round table, so de facto four months of work if you count that the National Committee was elected on 20 February, we have organised one such round table on the subject of "Protection of Consumers and Health", so one of the negotiating chapters on consumer protection where the European Commission's representative, Commissioner for this chapter, Meglena Kuneva, and of course the form and form of the organisation of these round tables, is always the same. Introductory person who is in charge of this chapter on the Croatian negotiating team speaks in the introduction, someone from the commission also introduced and then representatives of the non-governmental sector, depending on the chapter in question, whether institutions or groups or regions, I stress depending on the chapter and the subject that is concerned, also something opening and after that free debate. This debate has made a summary, so it is available to everyone as some sort of insight into the different ideas and suggestions that are given on that round table. Representatives of the Commission in Croatia, the European Commission in Croatia also take part in these round tables, and this is one of the activities of the committee to continue, but one such public debate was held by June 30th. They're open to the media, of course. In the report you will find in the section on the meetings of the National Committee, you will also find information on which chapters, so on which topics Croatia has requested an exemption or permanent delay in its negotiating positions. Practically speaking, what does that mean? It means that in some areas, Croatia has committed itself in its negotiating position to apply certain laws which have been adopted in accordance with the directives of the European Union after its entry into membership or even in some cases before membership. In some cases, Croatia has requested that application and transposition into the legislation of certain European Union directives be postponed for a certain number of years when it was considered necessary or necessary to adapt individual sectors or individual institutions to the standards required by the European Union. In some cases, she has also requested permanent delays, so that some of the directives do not apply at all to Croatia. Of course, in this we must be quite cautious and conservative first because one thing Croatia is looking for, the other is what it can get on the other hand and any such intervention contributes to the extension of the entire negotiation process. You will see from this report in which the chapters of Croatia asked for some exceptions and delays, in which it did not, therefore, social policy and employment without delay, taxes with requests for some delays and with some adjustments to the fundamental negotiating position proposed by the National Committee to the negotiating team. Some national committee corrections have also entered this chapter. Freedom of movement of capital without delay, regional policy and coordination of structural instruments with some adjustments and amendments introduced by the National Committee at its session in that position. At the end of this report, you have a list of other activities of the National Committee. In its action, the National Committee of course has the task of obtaining total insight into the whole process on behalf of Parliament. So also insight into what is happening on the Croatian side, as well as insight into what is happening on the part of the European Union, or the European Commission, and on the views that are generated or which are on the agenda of the Commission, as well as the possibility of, say, achieving some harmonisation of views. In this regard, the National Committee was very active, and we also had communication with Enlargement Commissioner Rehn, with a number of European Parliament representatives. They were visiting or we were visiting a number of countries in the region, all of which has been reported in this text before you, so countries in the region who want to use the Croatian experience in particular parliaments who want to use the very experience of the functioning of the National Committee and in this respect, the countries with which we were in contact are Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia and Macedonia. All four countries were interested in this experience and, in this respect, the National Committee of course cooperates with these countries except what it is, we consider it a kind of investment in the future and contributes to the transformation of the region as a whole and, of course, communication with the countries of the European Union is a regular job of the National Committee. The National Committee will see it in this report communicated with a large number of NGOs, interested groups in Croatian society because we considered it necessary, useful and necessary. He also had good co-operation with the foreign ministry, so with the government, with the prime minister, with the chief negotiator who attended all the sessions. Therefore, the main negotiator attended all meetings of the National Committee and reported to the National Committee on the course of negotiations and the latest developments. We have also introduced this, of course, and at all times we have introduced regular monitoring of the status of individual chapters as regards the fulfilment of the criteria for opening, that is, the closure of both the opening status and the closure of individual chapters, and this updated report is given to members of the National Committee at each session, and of course that information is available to all MPs. During this period of the first six months in the meantime, we moved significantly. You heard those data 30.6. That's not the data anymore. In the meantime, we handed over 31 negotiating positions of 33 of these real ones, these two technically in the end don't count. So we moved. We've also handed over all pre-conditions or closing standards. It's just to put into perspective what we've been doing in the first six months in relation to today's situation. The assessment of the National Committee is that in this year, especially since March negotiations and the whole process has accelerated significantly. We feel that content is as important as the time at this point is not to go into details, but I can later if any of them are particularly interested. But we're with the process in the first six months, especially after March, we're positive and we're satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18347	Thank you very much. And now we will discuss - A report on the course of the negotiating process of the Republic of Croatia - the European Union during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union (the period from 1 January to 30 June 2008) is the rapporteur of the report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Head of State delegation for negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union on the basis of a statement by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on joint action in the process of membership negotiations in the European Union, and a representative of foreign and European integration ministers Mr Gordan Jandroković will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. We therefore have three reports before us, two relating to the report on the work of the National Committee for the period 2007 and the first half of 2008 and this third report is the Report on the course of the negotiations process of the Republic of Croatia – the European Union during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union. I will go with this first and let me briefly present the progress made by the Republic of Croatia in its negotiating process for membership in the European Union during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union. During this period, Croatia continued intensive activities in all areas of the negotiations. Equal attention was paid to both the quality of the negotiations and its speed with the continued implementation of internal reforms in order to meet all the necessary assumptions and conditions for the completion of the pre-accession negotiations as soon as possible. During this period, Croatia focused on all aspects of the negotiating process, so on opening and closing chapters, meeting the criteria, harmonising legislation and implementing the necessary reforms. Two meetings of the Intergovernmental Conference on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union were held during the Slovenian Presidency. One was at the ministerial level, and one was at the level of deputy ministers, i.e. at the state secretaries' level. At these meetings, Croatia opened negotiations in four negotiations. These are the freedom of movement of workers, social policy and employment, and transport policy and energy. In addition, all relevant documents have been formally submitted to the European Union in order to meet the criteria for opening the negotiations in seven chapters, thus providing all the criteria for opening the chapters and also the closing criteria in two chapters. All other chapters establishing the closing criteria have achieved results and progress in meeting the criteria in order to close them as soon as possible. During the Slovenian Presidency, Croatia also submitted 7 negotiating positions for the chapters of freedom of movement of goods, freedom of movement of capital, taxes, social policy and employment, regional policy and coordination of structural instruments, justice, freedom and security and foreign security and defence policy. In addition to accession negotiations, Croatia also continued to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, implementing priorities and recommendations from the European Commission's 2007 progress report on the Republic of Croatia and the accession partnership, as well as the enhanced use of the European Union pre-accession assistance programme. As regards the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the European Union Member States have assessed that Croatia has made exceptional progress in meeting all the criteria for membership in the European Union. This was confirmed at the 4th Stabilisation and Association Council meeting between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union when the Council particularly praised the progress made in meeting the political criteria as well as those of the economic ones. Political criteria welcome the continuation of full co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Also welcomed is the return of refugees and exiled persons, the protection of the rights of national minorities and regional co-operation, and in this segment Croatia is assessed as a leader in strengthening regional stability. Progress in judicial reform, public administration and the fight against corruption has been welcomed, with the natural need to invest further efforts in these segments. As regards the economic criteria, the Council confirmed once again that Croatia has developed a market economy that will be able to deal with competitive market economies in the Member States of the European Union. In addition to progress in meeting the political and economic criteria for membership in the European Union, Croatia has made progress in harmonising its legislation with the acquis of the European Union as well as strengthening administrative capacity. As for the negotiations themselves during the Slovenian Presidency, we can split those six months into two parts. In the first 4 months of the Slovenian Presidency, the dynamics of negotiations and decision-making within the European Commission and the Council of the European Union have been significantly slowed by the Slovenian Presidency. In the last two months following the decision of the Croatian Parliament on the temporary non-application of the ZERP to the Member States of the European Union, negotiations have been stepped up so that the Slovenian Presidency and the European Union institutions have worked hard on negotiations with Croatia over the last two months. The dynamics of decision-making have been intensified and this has resulted in the opening of 4 of those chapters. Also after a longer blockade in that period, progress has been made in Chapter 24. This is justice, freedom and security and 31: foreign, security and defence policies for which the Council has decided to invite the Republic of Croatia to deliver negotiating positions. The negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia have also been delivered on call. As regards the fisheries negotiations that were also blocked at that stage, Croatia delivered the negotiating position in September. We can conclude that if we look at statistical indicators that, during the Slovenian Presidency, accession negotiations have been given a content swing that has not been reflected so much in the number of open chapters, but is higher, more visible in the achievements of the Republic of Croatia in meeting the criteria that have been confirmed through the intensive verification process of the criteria. During that period, Croatia has handed over the maximum number of verification criteria to the European Commission, with 17 criteria for opening in 7 chapters and 2 closure criteria in 2 chapters. In view of their complexity, compliance with these criteria is an additional confirmation of the commitment of the Republic of Croatia to implement the most difficult and sensitive reforms in all areas. During this period, therefore, good assumptions were created for the opening and temporary closure of all chapters in the upcoming period, or in the one in which we are now sitting, and Mrs Pusic, the chairman of the National Committee, spoke about something. As regards this first part of the report on the Slovenian presidency, I would like to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia estimates that the progress made in the accession process and the high degree of technical preparations in the remaining chapters will result in an increased dynamic in opening and closing them during the second half of 2008. I would like to inform you that during the French Presidency, two other intergovernmental conferences will be held at which we expect to open and close a significant number of chapters. Of course we are still counting on the continued support of the European Commission, which we can absolutely say with certainty, indeed, by the ally of the Republic of Croatia. We hope and support from all Member States of the European Union in maintaining the rapid dynamics of the negotiations. You are well aware that there is one country that presided over the period I am talking about, which has some difficulties in a positive approach to the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia but we expect to see progress in these days and in that part. I would conclude as far as this report is concerned that during the Slovenian Presidency we can talk about two, two chapters on that period. On the one hand, we have an atmosphere that was not positive, which was burdened with certain political pressures that went towards the Republic of Croatia by the Slovenian Presidency. This atmosphere was not such as to contribute to enthusiasm both in Croatia and Slovenia and in the Member States themselves when it comes to enlargement. On the other hand, when we look at the figures when we look at the statistics of the Slovenian presidency period, it has not slowed our goal in any way, which is the conclusion of the negotiations in 2009. So although the political atmosphere was not good, even though the Slovenian side suffered a number of criticisms that certain bilateral issues put into the process of Croatian negotiations, which is not the custom within the European Union itself, we can ultimately be satisfied and say that the Slovenian presidency has in no way hindered the Croatian objective of closing negotiations during 2009. As regards the report of the National Committee, I would like a few sentences because Mrs Pusic very comprehensively and quite correctly informed about the work of the National Committee and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, she experienced it and without a comment, delivered her opinion on these documents. We believe that these reports faithfully reflect the activities undertaken in order to advance the negotiation process on all negotiating chapters. Reports have been drawn up as technical documents giving a joint review of the topics discussed at the meetings of the National Committee, in accordance with the specific chapters of the negotiations. The numbers were mentioned by Mrs Pusic, so I won't repeat them again. What I want to emphasise is that the National Committee is witnessing a consensus that exists between parliamentary parties on the future membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. The special force of the Republic of Croatia is just lying in that consensus. Many countries that went through a similar process of entry into the European Union and did not have a political and party consensus on the issue, and that made it much more difficult for the negotiations themselves but, of course, the internal political situation. I believe that what has happened so far will be the end of the Croatian Presidency, until the end of our negotiations, and I expect from all of you, also from all segments of Croatian society, that we will equally strongly and equally advocate Croatia's entry into the European Union, but also give our full contribution because it is a goal that exceeds the narrow party interests, a goal that covers all segments of Croatian society and a goal that will certainly ensure a better and better quality life for all Croatian citizens, especially generations that come behind us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18349	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for the documents we're discussing, the committees have discussed, so I would like to invite the committee's representatives. Does he want to speak to the Committee on Agriculture? No, I don't. The Committee on Foreign Policy? There are no presidents, so there's no interest in speaking on behalf of the board. We've received their views. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished colleague Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18350	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. At first, I would like to express my satisfaction that, after some time in this House, there is a chance to discuss the report on the work of the National Committee again, because if I am not mistaken, the 2006 work report was not discussed in the last election year of the previous Assembly. I will immediately say that the SDP club supports the report on the work of the National Committee in the last and first half of this year, but for us accepting or not accepting these reports and is not the most important job to be done in the Assembly. It will be much more important to talk openly and assess how the National Committee can be even more effective in achieving its task of monitoring and parliamentary monitoring Croatia's accession negotiations with the European Union and maintaining the political consensus of parliamentary political parties on the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the Union as a strategic national goal. The parliamentary debate on the work of the National Committee is extremely important because during this mature phase of Croatia's negotiations with the European Union, it cannot be just a reform of the debate that will highlight that the negotiations are making good progress and that the National Committee has carried out its task of parliamentary oversight of accession negotiations. In fact, it is much more important to create preconditions for the National Committee to become a real parliamentary forum in which the political consensus for the European Union will be substantively defined. On many occasions, we pointed out that for us in the SDP, the process of joining the European Union consists of three inseparably key elements, these are accession negotiations, internal reforms and Europe's communication to citizens. As regards the negotiations themselves in a narrow sense, there is no doubt that the National Committee has carried out its tasks in the context of a very limited mandate that allows them only to give opinions and guidelines on behalf of the Croatian Parliament on the prepared negotiating positions. It is clear from the report that the Committee has discussed in detail, has also shown that it has finally agreed with the negotiating positions and that, in some of these positions, the comments and amendments of the members of the Committee have been accepted. There is no dispute in this task that the Committee is working well with the negotiating group. In this part, we point out that the Republic of Croatia has rightly requested a number of transitional periods and delays, harmonising national legislation with the acquis of the European Union, most of which are in extremely and financially significant, extremely important and financially significant chapters such as Agriculture, Taxes, Environment, Prometheus, but not only in them. European negotiators are already announcing a disagreement with not a small part of our demands, which, of course, indicates that we know that this will be the subject of negotiations. But in a situation where the prime minister and the government have persistently assured the Croatian public that the first negotiating priority is to complete negotiations by the fall of next year, we are seriously concerned by the possibility of giving up our negotiating demands easily so as not to endanger needlessly only the deadline for the conclusion of the negotiations. For this reason, we rightly expect the government and the negotiating group to consult and seek the opinions of the National Committee whenever the need for amendments and adjustments to previously agreed Croatian negotiating positions arises. In the reform part of the integration process, all strategic inefficiencies and inability of the government have been demonstrated. The first 4 years of their term of office since 2003 have been lost for serious reforms and adaptations to European values and criteria. The number and content of adopted European laws was more than insufficient during that period, judicial and economic reform and economic restructuring was simply not intended to be implemented. The government has sought exit from its own lagging behind HDZ in the old tried-out of real problems. In order to silence the debate on avoidance of European reforms, it launched a story on the necessary date of completion of the negotiations in 2009 and launched a screening of the dramatic acceleration of reforms in order to achieve the time target. If reforms had taken place with normal and possible dynamics over the previous 4 years, today no one would have discussed the superhuman efforts that should actually be taken in a short time to complete accession negotiations. The reform situation is even more difficult because the government has not consulted the political parties that supported the Alliance for Europe, nor has the possible instrument of the National Committee been used to do so. These negotiations must know what the absolute national priorities, not the interests of individual companies or industries are and what has to be achieved in order to participate in the internal market of the Union on the day of accession to the European Union. When making such strategic decisions in the main sectors of agriculture, energy, shipbuilding, we believe that the government should strengthen its negotiating position by seeking the agreed opinions of the Parliament, or the National Committee on the necessary reforms and exceptions, even before the Government formulates a draft negotiating position. This has not been the case so far in some key sectors, such as shipbuilding where the SDP disagrees with the government's intention to restructure this for Croatia's significant industries only by privatising the shipyard. And when the SDP criticises and points to the government's current reform and communication gaps, it does not mean at all, nor can it be portrayed as a SDP threat to political consensus for Europe. We are the last party to take the path of giving up and moving away from the European Union. This is what we have proven and proved by our consistent policy towards Europe. We are not against the Alliance for Europe, but we are even more of an alliance for European Croatia because what Croatia really needs is not the European Union itself, but the European Union for the benefit of all citizens of our country. I am afraid that the political consensus in the European Union, as the rulings understand it and present it, is only beginning to serve as an adornmental front of the government because it has been increasingly less and less real content on which this consensus is expressed and concrete in practice, when unfortunately, we can argue that when the last time the Prime Minister called on all parliamentary parties, political and political parties to discuss with them any issue that has an important impact on our accession process to the European Union, or when he has at least regularly initiated or regularly convened and informed the parties about the course of negotiations. The SDP will not accept that any political party's participation in the Alliance for Europe is limited only to giving consent to any action or non-action by the government in euro integration or whatever. We can't accept the thesis, and we won't, if you're in the Alliance for Europe, you have to support the government unspeakably, and if you criticize the government, then you're out of the alliance for Europe. The SDP does not break the consensus of the European Union by warning of the lost reform years, even as we are in fact strengthening the contained role of the Alliance's content for Europe. This will be very necessary because the reform work that we need to do within a very short period of time is great whether it is a key issue of judicial reform, the fight against corruption, the comprehensive reform of the state administration at all levels, the restructuring of shipbuilding, public procurement, the environment, energy or the ability to use and manage EU pre-accession assistance. Croatia still has a lot of work to do. This is what the European Commission and its President Barroso warn us about. We expect that the annual report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in November this year will give a realistic and objective picture of what we have done well so far and what we need to do. The harmonisation and adoption of laws only this year has reached the necessary dynamics and the Parliament in this sense of dynamics is doing its part of the job well. But at this stage, more and more attention should be paid to the implementation of the new European legislation. This has often been warned by the SDP, the European Commission also warns. This problem is visible in most key areas, and not only in the judiciary and the fight against corruption or the use of pre-accession funds, it is still a matter of political will, and somewhere a problem of administrative capacity generated in one part by an inadequate human policy. We believe that without overlapping constitutional powers with the authorities of the executive authority, the Croatian Parliament can be more determined to participate in monitoring and monitoring the implementation of the legislation. We see here the possibility of a different and more significant role of the National Committee. If we need to change that, we do not see any obstacles to the decision on jurisdiction of the tasks of the National Committee. Furthermore, we believe that other parliamentary committees should be further involved in the process of adapting to the European acquis, by encouraging them to follow the implementation of the laws adopted in the Assembly, by requiring the competent national authorities to report regularly on the state of implementation of certain regulations, and thus assessing the possible need for further adaptation of the legislation adopted. The third and very important element for the successful completion of Croatia's accession process is communication with citizens and public inclusion. We must not ignore the fact that future EU membership in certain layers of society is causing fear that is often based on lack of knowledge and lack of information resulting in a negative attitude in the part of the public. Public change studies show that citizens' support for entry into the European Union with oscillations is moving to about 50%. If this percentage is not significantly raised, it cannot be a guarantee of the success of the referendum on accession to the European Union, particularly under the current constitutional conditions. The government plays a key role in communication with citizens in national communication and strategy. However, the Croatian Parliament, as well as the National Committee, must also participate in Europe's communication to citizens. In one respect, the National Committee is doing so through organised public presentations of round tables so far, on acquisition of real estate, fisheries, consumer protection and health protection, and on environmental protection policy. But the work and sessions of the National Committee, as well as other key actors in the negotiation process, must be more open to the public. I'd go back to the end on two basic questions. Can the National Committee only be satisfied with technical and formal supervision of the negotiating process or should it also address broader issues of implementation of the overall reforms necessary for the successful training of Croatia for membership in the Union, and can the National Committee be separate from the communication process for Europe to the citizens? The answers to these questions outline a significant difference in the SDP's views and the ruling coalition. In the SDP, we are convinced that the National Committee could become the right place to concreteise the political consensus only when it would allow and extend its competence to the three areas I have spoken of, to give an opinion on the necessary reforms and adjustments, to monitor and encourage the implementation of legislation and to engage in Europe's communication to citizens through the opening of its work to the public. And why isn't that happening? For one simple reason, because the ruling HDZ-led coalition has persistently refused to accept the change of decision on the competencies of the National Committee. It thus confirms that this committee only views as a technical body which can only give suggestions on a proposal for negotiating positions for individual negotiating chapters. In the end, I repeat. The SDP will support the report on the work of the National Committee, as it confirms that the National Committee has performed well its very consensual and limited function, which determines its current mandate. However, I am using this opportunity to strongly highlight our position and the proposal that the National Committee be significantly more involved in the debate and initiatives for more effective reforms and adjustments, to be involved, together with other parliamentary committees, in monitoring and proposing the necessary complementarities of adopted European legislation and to contribute to the greater openness of its work to better public understanding and acceptance of European values. We would be pleased to see that such an assessment of the overall role of the National Committee is shared by other parliamentary clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18351	Thank you very much. We have two reports of correcting incorrect allegations. First of all, the honourable representative, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18352	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said the National Committee should become a real parliamentary forum in which a serious discussion and political consensus will take place. That implies he's not. That's an incorrect quote. He is a serious forum. I am sorry that the SDP in such an unserious way is challenging the work of the National Committee on the basis of no arguments. I am sorry that you did not consult your board members, colleagues Mimica and colleagues from Jurčić who are very actively involved in the work of this committee, I hope you will then learn both about the content and how the National Committee works. This is really on the side of the SDP for me worrying, because your members are really active and in the first place participating and achieving a real political consensus. Nobody shuts anybody up like you tried to implicate here in your act and it's really unserious from the SDP to approach this subject in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18353	Thank you very much. Second correction of the quote, distinguished colleague Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18354	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I need to correct a colleague from the SDP who said the government didn't participate, didn't make reforms. Next, the gentleman stated that committees and other committees in our Croatian Parliament should participate in the drafting of laws and adaptations. So I would say that every law that comes to the Croatian Parliament goes through other committees and that is how other committees participate in the adoption of laws that matter. And I don't think the gentleman is a member of the board and simply doesn't understand how the board works because he has given such criticism to the work of our National Committee which is not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18355	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18356	Al, there's been a united debate. I don't know if I can. ... Well, I won't answer the board, but I also have an obligation to respond to some of the allegations of a respected fellow MP because I have to admit we've come out of the topic a little bit and these three reports concern a certain period. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I have the impression that, in the presentation of the representatives of the SDP club, it came out of the context of this topic, so I must also answer and give the Government's opinion on some of the issues that have been raised. So one of those that happens often in public is that because of the deadlines, we're going to ignore quality because of speed. I want to repeat and give my firm conviction that we will not ignore the quality or have done so. You yourself mentioned the number of exceptions requested, you said yourself that this would cause some difficulties in the negotiations, however, the negotiations serve. The negotiating team, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the National Committee, when supporting the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the negotiating team, provides support for the protection of the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what we're gonna keep going on. However, I would not like it to be mentioned in the political life here and in the Parliament that we will negotiate as long as it is necessary for the content to take place, and then maybe we will enter 2014 as you have recently stated. I don't know if your party might support Croatia's 2014 entry into the European Union because that means what you said. It is also necessary to take care of the content and quality, but also of the deadlines. Why should you take care of the deadlines? Because we live in an environment, because we live in a world that changes from day to day, because we're facing a whole series of challenges that we're not sure how it's going to end. It is also important for a country like Croatia as soon as possible to become a member of both the NATO alliance and the European Union, because this is the best way to protect the interests of both our citizens and the Republic of Croatia itself. I believe the consensus on these issues will remain. I don't accept the thesis that consensus is just an adornmental cover of government, that's not true. And within the framework of the National Committee, but thank God and here in the Croatian Parliament we can discuss every topic and discuss every topic and every proposal you make is welcome. I believe that a great effort has been made because the process of entering the European Union is extremely complex. It's not the path we've been through, so we can just copy it. Croatia does not have a rich tradition in the market economy, in democracy, in a multi-party system. We're also learning together, and it doesn't have to be an embarrassment to anyone. We lived in the totalitarian system for 45 years. After that, we had a war, a war and Croatia only now adopts some criteria, adopts some values which unfortunately for historical reasons we could not adopt before. We're preparing our administration, our administration for an extremely difficult job. The amount of reforms, the content of reforms can be compared to what happened in the early 1990s when the Croatian state was created. Today we make such efforts as we did back then. Every criticism is welcome, but also every proposal and every idea that can improve this process. Because I repeat again, it is not a question of political elite, it is not a question of HDZ, SDP, HSLS or some fifth party, it is a question of the entire Croatian society, it is a question of all Croatian citizens, and we are responsible, we need to be those who provide them with a better life and better living standards, and in the first place peace, security and stability that the European Union certainly gives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18357	Thank you very much. We've got one report of a rectification. Honorable colleague Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18358	Honorable Minister, just one false allegation. There were more, though, but one is really a twist of fact. We didn't say 2014. We have just repeated what serious European politicians have said if a certain way of working in the HDZ government continues. And that's it. This was said by serious European politicians, the Council, as the ruling coalition runs the business. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18359	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18360	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Today's the end of 2008, it's almost over. Among other things, we are also discussing the 2007 report, let us also discuss this section 1.1-30.6 of this year, the report on the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union. Unfortunately, some part of the report is no longer as current as it could have been a few months ago. It is no longer current, nor is this region bodes over the Prime Minister and Pantovic when Croatia will be re-opened in the European Union by Mr Jandrokovic, the foreign minister. The truth works, 2014 as the date of Croatia's entry into the European Union, the first and only mentioned the main negotiator, Mr Vladimir Drobnjak. What came after that? There were calls, etc. It's clear today that everything needs to be forgotten. And already today, Europe, I dare say, has a full hat of problems, not so much with Croatia, but with its banking system, with recession. I read the German economy next year will have a growth rate of 0.2%, Italy or so. These are our most invaluable "economic destinations". Europe is doing just as well as we are dealing with the fall of standards and not counting any further. Is in this sense now the context of the global crisis that will take place, whether it can happen in the context of this controversy that has arisen here, that Croatia enters the European Union not in 2011 but rather in some later years. I think that if Croatia entered some later years to make it bad, it would not be perspective for this country. So can we, in the meantime, stop applying or be left out in the European Union? I am not saying that today in one Rome, Paris, London, Berlin or New York, she is singing our "US and England will be a land of proletarian" but some of the moves of the European or American administration are so much like state interventionism, nationalisation, rehabilitation, which is why Brussels and rightly calls Croatia, and now they are doing it themselves. The US Nobel Prize winner for this year for the economy said the crisis would last at least two and a half years. And they want for the sake of psychological fear and in this crisis who will profit most, those who have the most. It's clear, and the least they'll have of this crisis or the most will lose those who have nothing, and they'll be followed by those who are somewhere in the middle in that scale of distribution. And now I come to this report and chapters for which Croatia, for example, is called shipbuilding. But before that, just one word about banks to pull this one parallel between Croatia and the European Union, because what they are today for the European Union of banks, it is for Croatia's shipbuilding. Germany mentions that in the recovery of its banking system it will intervene with as much as 500 billion euros, France with 300 billion euros, Great Britain 380 billion euros, Spain 100, Austria 100, the Netherlands 200, Italy does not even have a limit. Berlusconi says how long it takes. America will buy out shares of banks with about 250 billion dollars, etc. We'll privatize the shipbuilding, okay. I agree that we privatise that branch except for "The Oilman." Why? From the 1990s to the present day, the Republic of Croatia or the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia have invested 35 billion kuna, and the effect is 4 bankrupt shipyards and another 12 billion kuna of losses that will eventually be taken over and returned to the country in the next 10 years. If not privatized, budget allocations for these four bankrupt companies, from Rijeka via the Queen, Trogir, down to Split, means if we don't privatize them in 10 years, it will take another 35 billion and probably after 10 years we'll be losing another 12 billion kuna. We are simply not so rich, that we can behave or rather, three billion kuna per year goes for these four bankrupt shipyards, equivalent to thirteenth and fourteenth pensions for over a million pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. But what I keep trying to point out is, why privatize an Oilman who's solvent, who's liquid, who can do without state guarantees and without this recovery. If the Istrian economy and workers buy it, it'll probably happen, and I'm not afraid to say in the next three years, "The Oilman" will definitely end up at zero this year, not in losses, we'll have a job, but I'd still be happier to remain a state-owned company, evil shouldn't have been, difficult years and the question of what's going to be in three years. So much for that. On the other hand, we can see Brussels can resuscitate its banking economy, for example, Croatia must not have its shipyards or any other company. We need to make that clear, and we need to tell them, gentlemen, don't make us go before the ore. Today I said, although Mr. Zubovic will correct me, it's over or it's over in 2008. We're discussing 2007, or for the first six months of this year. I dare say, keeping in mind, that in 2007, it was an election year, that what was done was given, because as it is, when the choice, then clear things are radicalized, then the game of national pathetics, then the blood boils, then it's normally spoken with that I don't know pride, etc., then the opportunities are sharpened, and by choice it's a quick correction of what was then messed up. The best example of ZERP is what was being carried out around ZERP in 2007 was absolutely unnecessary, as well as in 2003 to understand each other, but also in 2003 and 2008 were election years. We lost at least six months because of ZERP, and we haven't closed our fishing chapter yet. To make things worse, all this happened, all of this better in line with the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. To be clear, I am pleased that there has been a change of government in Slovenia, but it is interesting that they were more radical in their views in the Slovenian opposition, today in the Slovenian government, than in the then rule. I must also admit that after 2004 and agreed incidents in Piran Bay were peaceful, they were also during the elections, and now it should be used to take one step further to resolve the Croatian-Slovenian dispute and by all means, from property legal issues, I mean here at the brewery, let's say in Buzet just one case, the borders in Istria, the "Ljubljanska Banka" etc. Unfortunately for the border. I do not see the willingness on the Slovenian side to accept arbitration, Croatia must clearly not return to the Racan-Drnovšek Paraph. I fear just as the Slovenian authorities did not radicalise opportunities along the border while they were in power, now that they are in opposition to radicalise opportunities along the border and that must not actually allow them to sharpen relations. Therefore, I ask that they are not given cause, and that since the sweating of borders is unlikely to be resolved, we are asking Slovenia to build roads towards Croatia, not to block traffic at borders by renaming these border crossings, to resolve property legal relations, e.g. "Istrian brewery" etc. Otherwise for the Slovenian Presidency, as Mr. Minister said, only two chapters have been opened. Justice and freedom and security, and foreign and defence policy. A little too much, little for two neighbors who share 600 km of borders, where we share our history and where we share the same future. I live by that border and it just hurts that two neighbours are unable to solve the real life problems of Croatian and Slovenian citizens. We gentlemen, to banalise things, are not able to solve the problem of wild boars near the borders that destroy our summer, because you must not shoot at these animals along the border, and where the problem of "Ljubljanska Banka" will be solved mainly after the decision of the court in Brussels, where 110 or 120 thousand deposits of our citizens remain, without talking about the amounts paid by the Croatian state instead of the bank. In 2007, 11 chapters were opened. But for us, it will be crucial in 2008. Not because September was the last deadline for an agreement between Croatia and Europe, let's say, on the excise duty on cigarettes, and I have no doubt that the right to private monopoly will be defended by the government until the end, but that is why non-chalantly entered the sale of INA. It may also enter HEP sales, and we are already reading controversy about security of supply and price of gas. Once again, I will say no one here will convince me that the privatization of the Uljanika is good for Pula, good for Istria, good for Croatian shipbuilding. Clearly on that and I will say that does not insist on the European Union. Europe insists that all shipyards are only market positioning. The oil man's got his hands on it, so let's not hurt him. As far as corruption is concerned, they do not fight with cameras but with independent credible judiciary, police, media, but there is also corruption in these institutions. It is understandable for us that Europe needs it. Those who claim otherwise are not naive. Maybe they're just unwitting. We do not need Europe, even though it is only good for the sake of European funds. From 2008 to 2010. Croatia should withdraw EUR 451.4 million or 3.2 billion. For example, Turkey's aid amounts to €738 billion, Serbia €584,4 million, Kosovo €359,1 million, Bosnia and Herzegovina €269,9 million. The poorer you get, the less you get. Montenegro is going €99.9 million and so on. But Croatia needs Europe primarily for the sake of standards, for the sake of markets and for investment. In Croatia, except, I don't know, let me say one Rockwall EUR 85 million, 45 million of exports, or 0.5% of Croatian exports will have this company not built any serious "greenfield" investment. Of course, if Rockwul doesn't respect nor do we need them. But it's also true that without investment, we can't survive. That without exports, we can't survive. I'll say it again, I've said it multiple times in, here for the speaker Istria has a billion-dollar export, Primorje-Goran County $550 million. Croatia is simply in this external debt of EUR 36 billion when both Serbia and one Ukraine and one Hungary are unable to repay debts and seek intervention of the International Monetary Fund, so Croatia should do everything to avoid their situation and, among other things, attract relevant investments. I thought I'd say something, and now I'm red, about the freedom of movement of workers. Yes, pages 2, 5 and 6 of this paragraph, I will not discuss it but I will say that Croatia in the European Union will, as long as we see ourselves yesterday in one Maximir against one Andorra where we expected a win with 4, 5, 6 goals, the difference is Scanning "For Home Ready". I think that practice should end. That the official speaker should already start warning. That TV leaders should also talk about it as well as players, coaches, fans and so on. You can no longer provoke everyone around you. Why does it seem clear to all of us but I don't think it can be one Croatian perspective and a Croatian future in any way. All in all, I'm afraid clearly of this period ahead of us. I'm talking about that crisis again now. We're already registering a fall in investment, a fall in real estate value by 30%. Credit drop, employment drop. We see again not the fall but the strengthening of the kuna and I think we should also talk about it in the context of, I don't know, Croatian entry into the European Union. It is clear to the end that we support this report. We regret the delay in Slovenia's presidency. There was not as much guilt in Croatia as in Ljubljana. We see the Slovenians working it out further. Rupela is sending for the ambassador to Vienna which will only say that around foreign policy in Slovenia everything is coordinated and that consensus has long been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18361	Nice. We've got one report of a rectification. Dear colleague Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18362	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All I have to do is correct an esteemed colleague. He said Mr. Vladimir Drobnjak spoke about 2014. That's really not true. Mr. Drobnjak is valuable, good, our chief negotiator and advocates and constantly talks about the end of next year to finish negotiations and not him, it's really not nice to impute him now that he said it would be 2014. I know that my colleague knows that, and I don't understand why he's telling a real lie to the public like this in the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18363	Thank you very much. Mr. Jandrokovic is still answering for his word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very short. I need to look back at a few things Mr. Cain said. So first, I reopened the controversy with the President of the Republic of Mesic around the year when we will become a member of the European Union. It's just not true. You're trying to re-enter the government into controversy with the president. I have pollomised with a representative of the SDP Club, and again I claim that Croatia will become a member of the European Union at the latest in 2011. As far as Mr. Drobnjak is concerned, you know very well, he himself denied 2014 as a year. This was one contribution to the Croatian Television Journal, which was made as it was and in no way is Mr. Drobnjak behind that 2014 statement. As for the chapters opened during the Slovenian presidency, there were 2 and 4.4 chapters open. So I said 4, you quoted me. You also mentioned a question of boundaries in the context of negotiations. The issue of borders is a bilateral issue and should not burden Croatian negotiations on entering the European Union. I agree with you that we need to find a solution around the borders. The Croatian government is fully committed to seeking the solution through giving the case to an international judicial body. And finally, my personal full support to you for fighting wild boars in the border area. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18365	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Agent Cain. You mean tied to the wild boars?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18366	Just for, just for the wild boars. I mean, I wanted to make a joke. But Mr. Minister, whatever you think is a very serious problem. People who live by those borders, because there's my father 70% of the corn they ate, one half, one vineyard, etc. So if we're not able to solve this problem, that banal problem, and we're not how we're going to solve the real, serious, economic social issues, let's say from the border even though it can wait. But I mean here on property-legal relations, I mean the dubiosis that our savings have on the Ljubljanska banka, and I mean about this situation, not building roads of Ljubljana towards the Republic of Croatia and their repurpose of border crossings into categories of lower class. This is what citizens in Istria in this border case may be most concerned, but they are also concerned about these wild pigs and thank you for your support, but let us do something together with the Slovenians on this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18367	Here's what the president wrote down. I believe he'll discuss it at the next session. And now, on behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18368	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, first of all, I'd say that I think it's a good thing we're discussing at least two today, and here's how it went down and we're discussing three reports. In any case, I think it is good to discuss the report on the work of the National Committee at the same time that we are discussing the same period of Presidency of one country, this time Slovenia, because, as can be seen from the paper that we have received for both points and for the other, a series of things are the same. So, it's about negotiations and negotiations, and here's what I think might help with the efficiency of working in the Parliament, so if that's possible, it might be a practice in the future. Here, this month we have recorded three years that we have opened negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union and that seems to be enough time. Today there have been a little controversyal speeches about it, enough time to sort of assess whether we have chosen a good structure for negotiations and whether we have chosen a good way of participating in the Croatian Assembly's follow-up, so negotiations. Some who will talk about it today and who have spoken participated at the time when the consensus on European issues was discussed even before we opened negotiations after we got candidate status back in 2004 and how much I know then we all wanted to find the negotiating structure, but also for the participation of the Croatian Parliament the best modus that we could choose by analysing what they did before us. And indeed here as someone who was at that time on another side now as someone who has been sitting on the National Committee since the beginning of this year, from the time this new synergy was formed I can say that it seems to me that we at the club of the Croatian Democratic Community is certainly quite visible that the negotiating structure is also good. That's what happened in these conversations we've heard so far. So, all praise the negotiating team, the main negotiator and those working in working groups. But certainly, as someone and in the past, again on the other hand and in this assembly, so as a member of the National Committee, I can say that indeed the National Committee has shown its full justification. In fact, let me remind you, she wanted us to, and this is happening on the National Committee, and there is an open debate on topics that come to the table on the National Committee. And all those sitting on that National Committee know that sometimes we talk for long hours, that we have very controversyal tones. But to do as we agreed at the very beginning of the process, which is that despite some issues we can have opinions about when we put everything on the table and discuss, we can and come to a consensus on what we are discussing. Here, I would in that sense, since this is a question of whether this is a good mode of work and the participation of the Parliament in monitoring the negotiations. I would like to say that there is no doubt for us that this is a good way and that indeed all those working on the National Committee understand it very well and I think that they also give by coming to these sessions, but even more by participating in the debate at these sessions show all the seriousness and commitment to the work that we get when I think the Croatian Parliament chose us on 20 February this year and confirmed for this very serious job. As for, therefore, the work of the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations so far, I think we heard the same thing several times today, but I think it is important to repeat that it has truly brought to life the consensus of parliamentary parties on supporting the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. But what I think sometimes comes out of some of the discussions we've heard so far is that sometimes we don't understand who does what in the job and whose job it is to do. The National Committee itself is not in charge of negotiations. This is the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the negotiating group on the Croatian side and of the Council and of the Commission of the European Union on the other hand. This is the most important to note, therefore, in order to understand that the dynamics of the work carried out by the previous National Committee meeting, as well as the dynamics of the new Committee. In this regard, therefore, it depends mostly on the speed of those who are directly and directly more directly than us in the National Committee involved in the negotiation process. So it can actually be hardened for one and the other. So we're talking about the annual work of the last call. So, in the last year of work and on the first half of this new National Committee calling, he was fully following the pace of the negotiations, which we can see quite faithfully if we compare the data on the discussions. Therefore, calls for a position to be delivered with data on the discussions on our negotiating positions discussed by the National Committee. Sometimes the National Committee actually went one step ahead. That's what I can say about the last call. At that time, we discussed in my memory in July last year a negotiating position which seemed to us to have no reason to stand, it was a negotiating position for chapter 31, so Foreign and Security Policy, which, for various reasons, was, for the same reason, the same speech today was actually the right to the table, i.e. the invitation to open only in the wake of this new committee. So the National Committee has always wanted it and it wants it to continue and I think it was a good and commendable practice to move forward with the negotiations and even where it is possible when our negotiators can, so do maybe take a step ahead of that sometimes. In addition, we can say that, with this basic job, the National Committee had other activities in these two reporting periods. For example, thematic debate on areas of particular interest or particular sensitivity and meetings with representatives of the diplomatic assembly of other parliaments and the like. In this regard, I think it is really important to say that given the stage in which the Republic of Croatia is now in accession, it is this year that the new assembly in this respect has significantly strengthened its activities and I think so much that part of the response to what the colleague said on behalf of the SDP club has actually responded to some of these new challenges and that we who are sitting there will try to continue to follow what Croatia needs in the accession process. Therefore, I think it can be said that keeping in mind the pace of negotiations and respecting certainly the fact that parliamentary elections were held in the last quarter of last year as well as the new National Committee was elected in February of this year. The National Committee, both in a quality manner and in a different period, has determined the entrusted work, and this is primarily parliamentary control of the course of negotiations. When we talk about the ongoing negotiating process between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union during the 1st half of this year during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union in the materials that we have received on the table, the Government has indeed given a detailed overview of the progress made on opening new chapters, closing chapters, meeting criteria, and also of the overall relation to the relations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union and as regards the fulfilment of the obligations of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, meeting the recommendations set out in the Progress Report, etc. Overall, I think it can be said that Croatia has made further progress in the negotiations during the observed period, whenever the chapters discussed at two intergovernmental conferences are observed, whether progress towards meeting the criteria set as novelties and specifics of this round of negotiations. I have to look back at what the minister said, he said Slovenia did not slow down our negotiations, I would dare add, it did not unfortunately speed them up. Perhaps given the circumstances, we couldn't expect much more, but I think it was good, therefore, that Croatia on its own side and so much of this assessment is worth it, so that we, on our part, have done a great deal, and that, among other things, has helped the fact that our progress in the negotiations has not been slowed down and that what we have heard has been made much more than can be statistically read from only the number of open and closed chapters. So we're looking at it together, I think we can say that we're satisfied with what our negotiators have done to take care of what sensitive weather we've found ourselves in, and that's what we've been talking about, and actually part of the controversy today is about whether it's an important speed? Is the date important, or is it of all importance? We had one and the same attitude at first, I'll repeat it here. For us, it is equally important and the speed and quality of the negotiations. I think it is very clear about this on several occasions that the minister has shown himself, and as far as the date of the negotiations is concerned, I think it is very important to say that all those who have looked at the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia, we in the National Committee have them on the table when we discuss them, always begin every chapter of Croatia for the purpose of adapting to the European Union, etc. takes the year 2009 as the year to be prepared for membership. Without such a date, I don't think a negotiating position could actually be done, and that's the answer, namely a colleague from the SDP club said that we just imposed a date. I would say that only the dates imposed were before, that the first only imposed date dating back to 2001, we didn't realize it, but that the dates must exist because there is a certain goal, because there are a lot of activities that must be done to that end and without a certain time limit in which it is planned to do it is impossible to actually make that complex matrix, and that is the job of all the obligations that we have to fulfil. Here, I'm going to end because here's the light. So, in conclusion, I think it's important to say that our process has entered a more complex phase, that the screening process is completely complete, that we have all the criteria for opening, that we have, on our part, handed over all the criteria for opening and that we are actually working intensively, and it has also been shown in these discussions that have talked about what we did and after 6 months of this year that a series of things have happened and that it will happen by the end of this year. I can say that we think that everything that has been done and at the time of the Slovenian Presidency, despite the objective circumstances that we had, is actually half that period until we stopped applying the ZERP to the members of the European Union, we were practically at a standstill, at least formally in the negotiations, that we have prepared a great field for the French presidency that is under way, as well as for the Czech Presidency, which is next in the first half of the following year and that we are going to do everything on our part to complete and achieve that rhythm we have chosen and on whom we are working, which is that by the end of 2009. In this context, I think it is important again to note that negotiations are being conducted in changed political circumstances, that for Croatia it is, therefore, that Croatia is the first country to negotiate with standards and that, taking into account all these circumstances, perhaps now this Lisbon Treaty which all countries still need to ratify so that we can say that, overall, in such a context, Croatia can be satisfied with what we have achieved so far, and in this sense, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support all three reports that we are discussing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18369	Thank you. At 12.59, we'll run out of time to sign up for 10 minutes. And now on behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18370	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HSS Club discussed all these three documents that were united in the debate. We think it's a good thing that we're just discussing it that way and leading, because what's the role, the task of what's both the shape and the way this body works, is actually one continuity. We had both elections and changes in certain functions and duties, but those basic tasks they remained. After all, that is why the National Committee was founded. What I'm saying is, the president filed a report and gave a look at what we did and how we did it. I am pleased that this report is in fact what has been done, that it does not include political views. Because we have tried at committee meetings, it is not always possible to avoid it, but it is sought to discuss what the interests of Croatia are, which is the interest of all and to achieve consensus... or we can say in all the questions because no veto has been put anywhere or someone's turned off around any point, that we've always reached a consensus though, I must say, that we haven't always started and agreed on everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must say that, too, which were not at board meetings, that we once left that session and with a certain bitterness wanting to achieve or set things differently. Let's just remember the debate on statistical regions. We all wanted at least five of them. We finally said three are, because it was so determined, because it couldn't be negotiated anymore. But we have also opened a window to enter a light with the belief that in 2011 and 2013, in the new budget, we have a chance in the new regional setting, if we are to prepare ourselves, if we are to prepare new documentation and evidence to achieve certain things and to set certain things differently. The Committee's core task is to monitor what is being done and parliamentary oversight. However, the National Committee was not only in that function, and we, when we were and we entered that committee, were in fact also in our own entry and we accepted that we wanted to debate, that we wanted to express our opinions, that we wanted to agree there. Because the truth is, the government is the negotiator. She has to be, she's set up. But it turned out, not once, that both because of speed and clarity of attitudes and because of efficiency, it's very good that we have a board, which we have uniform views. Because what's entered into the negotiating positions, the negotiating platforms actually determine, we who are sitting on the National Committee can follow it more strongly and dynamically. Many determine what the government and the ministry are doing in proposals, what we are doing here in the debate on the adoption of certain legal solutions, whether it is about laws, whether it is about development strategies in certain areas and areas where we have taken it as a commitment, whether it is about established attitudes, about certain areas where someone initially considered it a need to defend more or less, and then we built it as common points. I'm just going to take an example of agricultural land where a lot of debate was being debated whether we're going to look for what period and how we have a certain number of years to adapt. In the end, we found this to be our common point of view, we introduced it as negotiating positions. And we believe that when we send such messages, then for all those questions where we seek and understand, we delay the deadlines or the recognition of our specificities, so to speak, that we have a better chance. It is certainly also in considering these reports to consider the way the board functioned. I am pleased that we did not have a postponement of the session, that we did not have a postponement or a prolonging of the debate on certain materials, but had an agreement with each other that the moment that some material is ready to meet, that we will discuss, that we will give our opinion that the next day might be discussed in the Government or carry it and refer to Brussels. And I think that's good. I think it's a good way to work, and I think that's the way to go on. What I also want to stress in this debate is circumstances. One is our wishes, which we would like, within which time limits for certain processes to happen and what to accept or acknowledge as our specificities... There are other circumstances where certain things happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this context, in my opinion, what the government is doing, what the Committee is doing, where we are as a legislative body, or Parliament and our teams. Because let's not get out of the way if we were going into negotiations with the Turks, and if that was going very, I'd say, sloppyly. Then when we fought for a special status, and it was not someone who defined it as a privilege for Croatia, but by our proof, by our willingness, by convincing our teams, we proved that we were more prepared to go faster and then we got that status. Then the whole of the Union came into status dilemmas, we know very well what about the adoption of the European Constitution, which is with attitudes and opinions and referendums that have been carried out, about enlargements, and it is certain that this is also a framework or environment in which these processes took place. And what's being discussed these days, what's on this point or at this point, it's a question of how the banking system works and the economy works, and it has its consequences. You know. Because we here can say we have certain knowledge, many of us are traveling around and we see that in the countries that have become members how they went or how these integration processes are going today, especially where transitional periods have been left, or those where they have been enough to conform normally, because there are no colleagues of Cain. He was saying, we need it primarily or one of the three goals is the question of standards. I was also recently one of those countries, and there's a man with two colleges as director of the regional power plant who pays 400 euros. Therefore, I believe that all our managers of Elektra would not want to comply according to standards. I'm just saying this as an example, because I stand for what has also been said here through a series of discussions, changes, reforms need us and what we find here is certain that we must follow in what way and how it will be implemented, what it will bring and how it will reflect on our life, on our structure, on the conditions of life and on what we have drawn or put before ourselves as a protection of national interests. What else I'm trying to say, and I'm going to point out two more things in particular. It's in the report, and that's what it says. The conclusions are on one page, and I think that's good. It's the training of our teams. We're actually through everything we heard at the National Committee meetings, but I also think it would be good for the president to enter and count it put through the agendas. We had frequent visits by senior European officials and they gave us courts about how our teams work, how our materials are prepared for what they stand for. They always got great grades. I think that should be emphasized, and that only says that we have potentials for this stage of negotiations and for adaptation. It is up to us to create personnel and to implement all the things that we adopt and change the laws and certain reforms that are necessary, for which we have been identified and that we must implement. And lastly, it's diplomacy. Here is Mr. Minister, and I think, as he announced, after the Slovenian Presidency, that we had made preparations, that we would make a significant move forward during France. In his review of the time of the Slovenian Presidency, he spoke very diplomatically. We from the National Committee can do the same, but I think we can do much differently, because in my position and attitude of the HSS Club, Slovenians tried to turn their bilateral affairs into a question of the relations of the Croatian European Union at the time of the Presidency. We paid for the postponement of the application of ZERP to show that it is not a matter of fishing and sardines, but that it is a matter of borders, but after that I believe that we are also in a position to get a certain reward when it comes to the pace, and I am confident that they will be done, because we know who is following, and then, in fact, during whose chairmanship we expect to complete these negotiations. I am convinced that it is possible in 2009 to make all preparations and then put the member states in the situation of pleading for our entry and reception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18371	Thank you very much. On behalf of the National Committee, i.e. the Proposer of Ms Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18372	Thank you, Mr. President. So, since we have a meeting of the National Committee in a few minutes, I would like to say on behalf of the motionary something about the debate. Of course, I thank everyone who debated on behalf of the clubs. I think it's good and useful and important and I'm going to look back at a few things that are here, that are said here. First, given my colleague Mondekara's debate on behalf of the SDP club. I think it's absolutely clear and I don't think there's anyone, anyone serious in this House who suspects the pro-European orientation of the SDP. It's certainly a party that at the time she led the government she started de facto all processes. So I don't think it's inconceivable that anyone would question the pro-European orientation of the SDP. At this point, however, the debate of quality, verse, time, it is true that at different times changes the emphasis. Sometimes a period of reform may be more important. Sometimes we need to push the process faster. At this point, it was not at all times of the negotiations, at this point my deep conviction and, on this basis, we keep dynamics to the National Committee is that the time, or reaching that deadline since 2009, is the end of the negotiations that time is an integral part of quality. As regards Croatia itself, as regards the region and the establishment of the accession model to the European Union. Therefore, the establishment of the Croatian model for countries in the region as a successful and model to be taken over to join the European Union. There are other models, there is also the possibility that other models that are much less effective and in some ways much more questionable about reforms in a country that could be identified as models of accession to the European Union and therefore it is important for the Croatian model to be successful in time and to be identified as one model by which it can be done. So, of course, it's important that we keep our eye on reforms here all the time. So the key reforms, and we have one of the most important absolutely still standing before us, and that is the judiciary that key reforms really are if we don't end and then we really really define and start before we end the negotiations. Because unfortunately, as it is seen from the experiences of some countries that have entered before us if this is not done, the problems are immeasurable that arise even after the country enters the European Union. So time at this point is not a question of giving up quality. We must insist on quality reforms and insist and we will absolutely insist on it on the National Committee, but we believe that the time to hold these deadlines is an absolute part of the quality for Croatia at this time. I cited only a few reasons, for example, Croatia's position in the region and influence, the possibility of Croatia's influence in the region is also linked to success in the defined time. As regards the National Committee, which only delivers an opinion or has a advisory character regarding the negotiating positions. That's not true. The National Committee shall give a binding opinion. So without all members who are also parliamentary representatives because there are outside members who do not vote, without all members who are also parliamentary representatives on the National Committee agreeing with some negotiating position, this position does not go any further. In theory, or in fact, any member of the National Committee can, at this time, stop negotiations with his vote. Of course, that position for us is brand-new and we who are on the National Committee were not sure how it will work, and I must say that with a great deal of pride in this regard, I am saying that this fact is not only that you are voting now, so what will always be voted upon, that it has resulted in a high, high degree of responsibility of members of the National Committee. So that everyone thinks very well about it, discussions are very intense, but everyone thinks very well about when it is accepted or does not accept some suggestion from a member of the National Committee or when voting what does that mean? And so far, this consensus has worked absolutely well thanks to my opinion in other places to an unprecedented degree of responsibility, the sense of responsibility of all members of the National Final Outcome Committee precisely because there is such an important decision on each vote. But the consensus, of course, needs to be known and built and maintained. And that is why it is very important that we conduct discussions of course on the different visions and roles and possibilities of what we could do in this process and what the National Committee could do, where his difficulties or mistakes or shortcomings are, and where his advantages are. But we bring this debate out of position and respect for each other and maybe sometimes neglecting the form in which someone says it can be even stronger, and by concentration on content. This consensus is the basis for any future consensus in Croatia when this composition will no longer sit in Parliament and when many people who will come after us will do this job. But it is the basis for the use of consensus in Croatian political practice. And while we are doing one of the most important jobs in general, this is the approximation of Croatia to the European Union and we are working from the point of view of the forms of political activity or the forms of political work, we are doing a whole new job. It is also the functioning and, i.e. building and maintaining a political consensus that has so far simply been in action and despite intense debates, and modifying the position and you will see if you read the report, modifying the position. So on the National Committee, some views have changed compared to how they entered the National Committee. It's accepted and it's adopted. It could have been harder for a change. As far as the debate is concerned, it is difficult to imagine that it was, that it might have been stronger, but in any case there was this feeling of mutual responsibility, and that absolutely to all colleagues and colleagues who are members and members of the National Committee are indeed giving recognition and I thank you in the way that they have approached the business. The second thing is a matter of consensus on reform. It would be great if we could reach a consensus on reform. But it doesn't make sense. It is not in any way expected, because reforms are policies. We are, of course, harmonising our legislation and institutional infrastructure with European standards. But the European Commission or the European Union do not prescribe, for example, what counterpart Cain said, how market efficiency and shipbuilding performance will be achieved. They just say move out of the subsidy and make shipyards competitive. Politics is Croatia, and of course Croatian governments. I think we all agree on how to run a policy would have no more parties and they wouldn't drink in a position and we wouldn't be in opposition right now. So politics simply defines the government and is responsible for them by the government. We cannot reach a consensus on all policies because we do not agree, we simply disagree on all policies and we are criticising each other and we will criticise ourselves. But what we have a consensus on is progressing on that path. We certainly don't have a consensus about politics, and I think it's illusory to expect it to be achieved. I don't think I mentioned in what I said in the introduction that in the first quarter, or the first quarter, we were late in adapting legislation, which I think is the same thing on behalf of the SDP. In the second quarter, we reached that pace. So we had planned 80 laws for the first half of the year to be harmonised, and 72 of which we aligned, so we brought in and 9 was at that point at some stage of the procedure. So first, the second reading or they haven't voted yet or any of it. Just as far as my colleague Cain's IDS remarks on the Oilies are concerned. So privatisation or privatisation is government policy. The restructuring of the shipyard in order to be market-efficient is an integral part of the chapter. Two chapters haven't been on the National Committee yet. So, negotiating positions. It's competition and justice and fundamental rights. Shipbuilding sites are part of this programme, i.e. the negotiating position. Therefore, the criterion for opening negotiations in the competition chapter. We haven't discussed it yet, and let's say an example of a good one. Here, I'll do it now. [[Intruder President: We hope you will finish.]] Only that fellow Frisčić, vice-president of the Assembly, on behalf of the HSS Club, was an example of the functioning of the National Committee, where it began to be impossible to change that division of Croatia to three regions, and in the end the negotiating position of the Croatian Reserve, i.e. the position that by 2013, the population census and any changes in the number of populations in certain parts of Croatia could change this regional division. So, it can revise in relation to what we sent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18373	I suggest we listen on behalf of the SDSS Club Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac, and then we break up and move on at 15.00 hours. Here you go, Mr. Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18374	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations with the European Union was established to avoid being blocked by the rapid process of obtaining candidate status during that period in 2004, 2005. And that consensus worked well. And these big topics, such as co-operation with The Hague, did not really pose an obstacle to some major political parties in the opposition, and even less in the opposition, contributed significantly to such issues as others not being an obstacle to our approach, or to our obtaining membership status. Since the term of office of this coalition government, the National Committee has received different characteristics in its new composition. He's got both speed and he's got a new quality. The number of meetings held by the National Committee can be seen from this report, the number of discussions and the way in which they are taking part testifying about the increased speed, the more effective monitoring of the work of the negotiation process on the one hand and on the other hand of greater competence both for those who come before the National Committee and for our members of the National Committee. The awareness that each of us in our position is someone who advocates the interests of agriculture or someone who advocates the interests of judicial reform or of anything else can either speed up or slow down the negotiation process really puts great responsibility before this National Committee. In addition, the president of the National Committee, Ms Pusic, has introduced another quality, which is that she, as chairman of the Committee, has been in her contacts with related political parties, but also with people from the European Commission in charge of the negotiation process and for new members as Croatia has actually strengthened the role of the National Committee and in this dimension. What seems to me is where and where it actually opens up the space that, by facing new problems, the National Committee has actually got some kind of new identity, so it can be said freely that it is also getting some kind of new tasks which, in its basic idea, is the initial way that we defined it to the Rules of Procedure on the National Committee and the work of the National Committee actually did not have. And if you let me, I'm going here some highlights that have already become an integral part of the work of the National Committee, and some that are not yet effective, but will have to be by nature of things if this committee wants to continue with this kind of dynamic and this kind of quality. First, what is certainly the third dimension, two were spoken of by Vice-President Friscic, which is the public's inclusion in the negotiation process, including the public in the negotiation process. The organisation of round tables as one way and one mechanism, at least for part of the professional and interested public or political, if it is the units of local self-government or civil society is absolutely inevitable, necessary and should be improved, should be maintained and made more efficient, of course in agreement with the representatives of the Government and representatives of the negotiating team. This is extremely important because the fatigue that took place in the Union when it comes to enlargement can happen with us. In order for this to happen, if the negotiating team and the policy leading towards the whole negotiation process would not alienate from the public and from what is actually a social interest, it is necessary to have this important channel that ensures public involvement in the negotiation process. It's not just informing a colleague and a colleague. It's actually training a large number of people because these people when they come to round tables, they need to prepare for it. They should be able to discuss and at the same time present what their interests are at different levels and their perspectives. On the third hand, this brings a new dimension, which is the art of talking and negotiating about the different issues that we have. Which, unfortunately, we don't have enough. We don't even have enough in Parliament, let alone in different aspects. And that is why these round tables are an important instrument that is achieved in the broadest sense in terms of public inclusion, but also these specific objectives. The other elements discussed by the president of the National Committee are now the issue of monitoring the reform process. Before, there was even resistance from the government that the National Committee could monitor the reform process because the National Committee has had it with it. Of course there is. Of course there is. If we adopt action plans for judicial reform, for the fight against corruption, for public administration reform, for the inclusion of minorities or the like, we won't just stand on paper. That doesn't get the job done. But the action plan should be converted into action, and for this action, the National Committee should be informed of how it is implemented and, of course, it can say something in this sense in which it has already been said and followed by certain segments of reform, especially when it comes to Chapter 23. – The judiciary and rule of law will be of great importance to the credibility of our approach to the Commission and the European Union as a whole. And if the members of the National Committee and the National Committee fully say yes, we are the ones who guarantee that the reform processes are being implemented properly, it is quite clear that then the messages of the Government and the negotiating team will be more convincing, and if that is not the case, there is no doubt that the messages of the Government and the negotiating team will not have the necessary assurance. The third thing that seems to me that this National Committee will need special attention is the issue of funds, pre-accession funds and structural funds. Not to take over the job from those who have a priority job, but to help them focus more on the job and see where we actually need more people and more capable people than we have. And where the dissemination of information on this is important and necessary in order to increase capacity, usability and pre-accession funds. Yesterday we talked about providing funds and protecting deposits, but we will have to discuss in this House and how many of our units of local self-government, how many local cooperatives in certain environments or individual business entities have the capacity to appear in some competitions if there is no State aid, if there is no concept of how we will help them. In a lot of cases, there aren't. I'm saying this because I'm dealing with a segment of the revitalisation of the area myself, and I know that, let's say, twenty cooperatives now, in order to actually get funding from a program that is ours and with the help of the World Bank, it actually has to have certain guarantees, and from where guarantee to those who actually need help to get on their feet at all. Therefore, we must start to think that we will strengthen our capacities and the National Committee has no doubt can help to define this policy. And the third thing, the chairman of the board talked about it in some way, which is the question of the region is connected to the story of the funds because the good part of the funds is linked to cross-border co-operation. We are a country with a long border and our opportunities, and many neighbors in this regard. And our opportunities in that sense are great. At the same time, however, the political situation in the region, especially in some neighbouring countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, can seriously slow our path to the Union. The fatigue that exists since the enlargement process in the Union itself if the financial crisis exists and manifests itself in different ways will increase voters' unpreparedness, policies and governments of the European Union for enthusiasm and enlargement dynamics. We must, in my opinion, think of it as a member of this House and as a member of this committee, we must change our policy in relation to neighbouring countries and their towards us to strengthen the credibility of joint efforts, and this National Committee, by the way it has worked so far, can be a good example for many countries now, so that they can establish their mechanisms for the negotiation process. In the end, I would say that the SDSS Club will surely support the report on the work of the National Committee, and it is absolutely certain that representatives of other national minorities in the Croatian Parliament will also support the overall insistence of the National Committee to maintain this kind of work dynamic, but at the same time extend and increase the quality and scope of its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18375	Thank you. And briefly, Foreign Minister Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18376	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just for a little while, a few comments. I highly appreciate Mr. Pupovac's very constructive approach, I share to a large extent his thinking and I want to tell him about the four areas he mentioned which in his opinion should be dealt with by the National Committee. I would like to tell him that within the framework of the Government, within my ministry, we are thinking intensively and working on a concept of how to strengthen the communication of the European Union to our citizens, how best to explain and inform them about this process, we are not doing so to inform them about the figures but we are doing so because we firmly believe that the process of Croatia's entry into the European Union is a universal process. It is not just a matter of politics, it is not just us sitting here and our parties, but it is a process that is permeated by Croatian society as a whole and it is very important for us that citizens participate in this process. As regards the region of cross-border cooperation, there are a whole range of projects, there are large resources that the European Union is committed to just such forms of cooperation, and I want to inform you that the new Secretary of State, Bozinović, who has taken over his duty since 1.10, has two special tasks, which is precisely including the public in the process of approaching Croatia's accession to the European Union, the interpretation of the European Union, but we also want Mr Bozinović to participate more and create this policy of cross-border cooperation, to look for projects that are financially profitable for Croatia, but also for other neighbouring countries, and thus we want to further strengthen Croatia's role in the region at this time, and Croatia is the leader of this region, Croatia has far the most advanced when it comes to integration and NATO alliances in the European Union and with such policy. I particularly agree with what you have said about the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina which is not only good and Croatia must make a full contribution to stabilising the country on known principles, which are respecting the territorial sovereignty and integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina and preserving equality and equality of all three constituent peoples and Croatia will continue with such a policy. And all those who counter such policies, the Croatian government will call and see such a policy as unacceptable. But we also need to make sure that the policy that points to the problems that exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina does not lead to this situation being even worse. We are very closely coordinating our positions, our views with the Member States. I think that during this 9-month period how it works in the second term of Prime Minister Sanader's government, we managed to communicate with the International Community and Croatian positions when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also to distract the International Community on Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because there is a tendency and I ask that this also be registered, there is a tendency within the European Union and beyond, which they consider to be higher in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the International Community should no longer be present through the office of an international representative who believes that there is not so much attention to Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the internal stabilisation processes are over there. They are not finished, the focus of the International Community should be restored to Bosnia and Herzegovina again, and Croatia will do its utmost to confirm that our position towards the country is constructive and that it is guided by the principles I have spoken of. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18377	Thank you very much. Now we'll interrupt the session and continue at 3:15 p.m. There is another club, SDSB Mr. Boro Grubisic, then Mr.... And so on. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18378	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the afternoon session with a debate on the united items 3 and 4 of the agenda. It is on behalf of the HDSSB Representative Boro Grubisic's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18379	Dear Madam Vice President, a few colleagues and colleagues, I have the honour of speaking to such a few audiences the second day, but I will not mind making my point regarding this report on the work of the National Committee for a year and a half, so we can say since this report is for the past year and for the first six months of this year. The very word of the National Committee at the beginning of this Parliament, I became parliamentary representative on January 11th, was not very clear to me. I wasn't a member, so now after this report, I'm much more clear to what it's really about, what the National Committee is doing, what it does, what its responsibilities are and what its responsibilities are. The bile has spread here today, so to speak between MPs, including Mr. Minister who is not present when Croatia will enter the European Union when negotiations will be completed and what year Croatia will join, I would finally tell the European Union. In the media, and amongst the politicians, and then clearly among citizens, since they are very susceptible to promotions and all other actions, especially electronic media. A false fundamental question has been created, a fateful question when Croatia will enter the European Union. Is that 2009, 2010, someone says 2011, and then they envy how the loud and envious prime minister said, somehow predicting 2014, although it is envious, I believe that we all expect here as well as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be a great majority sooner and sooner. Somehow, it seems to me that here we are all reading together like Nostradamus together with European Commission officials, European Union officials from Olli Rehn, Mrs Nadj, Mrs Doris Pak Freedom, and I don't know who everyone doesn't know, every time they come to Croatia or have a chance to make a statement about Croatia's accession to the European Union, it's always a different date. I personally don't know, and also with our leading politicians, I don't know why this is a reason to change that year's admission of Croatia into the European Union, so it's always in some interview or conversation or to say any questions about this other date, some other year. I think it is much smarter and much more important to make quality negotiations, to put our views into these negotiations, that our negotiating positions are, I will not say hard, but our national positions to which we will bring part of Croatia into Europe, which we will introduce the spirit and breath of Croatia to Europe because I am not a Eurosceptic, but I am not, either, I am not a foggoose, but in any case, as a Eurorealist, you should see both the advantages and what at this point and the financial crisis that will bring this entry into Europe, so something that is very current at this point. Furthermore, one crisis and the moral, or identity of Europe as one in Christian civilization, and Croatia knows what attitudes, specifics and how Croatia was created. I therefore think that it is much more important and that it is not at all a controversial date of entry into the European Union, but rather a quality entry, a quality negotiating position and that is what our national committee and all those who care about it need, from the Government and beyond when they adopt these laws with the "e" label, therefore European, adaptation to Croatian European laws that it is important to do this very well. When it will be, I would almost say less important because, here are 20 years almost from the beginning of Homeland work and without the European Union Croatia lives and survives, and we know well that many members of the European Union who swear to friendship with Croatia today, with whom we make bilateral contracts starting with police cooperation and beyond. We know what the position of the '90s is. the years they had towards Croatia which was blocked in the purchase of weapons and everything else and which our opponent had very, very good diplomatic relations. Not to mention the names of those countries which are today the leading members of the European Union. In addition to these members, we also have a Slovenian break that we are forced by the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union, I must say clearly and loudly that such perception with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is that there has been a delay, therefore there has been no turning back, but there has been no progress in the negotiations with the EU during its chairmanship. And at that time we actually delayed ZERP in this House without a lot of shouting and noise, Slovenians introduced Vinite to us, they picked up 200m euros in traffic through Slovenia due to the tourist season in Croatia. We have a constant problem that is completely unresolved, there was on TV the other day in a conversation with a representative in the European Parliament President of Slovenia, so Slovenia's views are clear on the Ljubljana Bank and on the issue of Krško nuclear power plant and on land border and everything else, and yet I would say that we should not wave a bit, but we act as we do because they say that in anger beggars is an empty bag. So here we must not be too angry, but rather condescendingly talk, we are negotiating patiently by building our position which is clearly much better, I must admit much better than it was at the beginning of negotiations for Croatia's EU accession. The National Committee I heard from Mrs Pusic here, is a committee that gives its opinion to the consensus and that opinion is binding. So this is a very important body, given what I said, or what she said, so the people who work in it are really responsible. When we look at these reports then we see that in 2007, this National Committee has met seven times, and in the first six months of this year six times. So the efficiency I would say or the effectiveness of this committee's work is in this first half, the first half of 2008, I would say better than in the last 2007 and significant. However, when we look at the topics of meetings, so which are listed here in the Report of the National Committee, then I don't see that the National Committee is especially when we have reports of chapters that have been opened, closed, etc. The National Committee has not discussed or received documents relating to this chapter very often. And it's almost a common syntagma in this report. You see, when I mentioned Slovenia, I have to go back a little bit, I apologize, but you see now they have decided that the vignettes they have introduced for six months are now 15 days because Europe needs our people to come skiing on the ski slopes of Italy, France, Austria and Germany to make it easy for our tourists, so Croatians and Croatian citizens to pass through Slovenia. The same Europe did not react when the passage through Slovenia was to be easier on our Adriatic Sea. Now he's responding. At this point in time, there's a winter skiing season going on, but later on. In 2007, what I noticed, and what I saw from my point of view and the position of the HDZB and the views of Slavonia and Baranja, is very signifiable in Chapter 22. – regional policy and coordination of structural instruments. At the 22nd meeting of the National Committee held on 1 June 2007, the National Committee discussed the state of negotiations in that chapter with the EU, and in particular a detailed debate was held on the division of Croatia into statistical regions. One member of the board, does not write by name and last name which does not matter, expressed dissatisfaction with it due to inadequate division, and in my view, Croatia in three statistical regions, eastern or Pannonian Croatia, the Adriatic and Northwest regions, and in 2003 the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament was indeed to divide Croatia into five statistical regions. This has never been done, but it is not possible to say it either delegated or denied, but although the Croatian Parliament set it in 2003, it concluded in 2003 that it was never implemented, so it was seen and said on the National Committee, however, there is nothing to say about it, which would have been the bite of a donkey wolf. Moreover, in the further text on page 17 of this report, it is clearly said that this will be done and therefore when it comes to the EU's financial perspective from 2014 to 2020. So for some regions, some kind of europeanization would say so under quotes, a metaphorical performance in 2014. Why in the year 2014, I wouldn't go into it so I wouldn't be jealous of anyone or anyone. Which is why we are in such a hurry in the EU, and I would not say it, because we know how well these things from when we have the Government, from when until when we have this Parliament, so when it was founded, or when it was the first session and when it ends the session of this Parliament, so I think there is little haste and this Government, but I say the haste should not be at the expense of the quality of negotiations with the European Union. When we talk about what is also very important for the region from which I come, which is Slavonia and Baranja, we have in chapter 11. Is the delay in these negotiations due to Croatia's adjustment to accession to the European Union or something else, I don't know. Is the delay of the debate on the Law on the availability of state agricultural land, therefore the debate on this law has been postponed and I do not know that, but I am clearly trying to figure out the answers. In Chapter 13, which is very close to Chapter 11. - Fishing, negotiations are blocked. Therefore, I expect from the National Committee as well as all those who supply materials to the National Committee that the facts of quality negotiations, quality Croatian views that will be on the benefit of Croatian citizens, are primarily assumed by so-called. the speed of accession to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18380	Thank you very much, Representative Grubisic. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18381	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, it is incorrect that the European Commission has now reacted to winter holidays. Since the beginning of the European Commission has warned the Slovenian side that the decision to introduce these vignettes, which will be only for a 6-month period or for an annual period, will, in fact, be discriminatory towards those who, once and for a short time, travel, and that is their principle position from the beginning of the day that the Slovenians announced that this voice had already gone from the European Commission to Slovenia and I certainly believe that Slovenia will respect that attitude of the European Commission and will introduce the vignettes and for shorter periods, so for 10 or 15 days of travel through... That's another question. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But it is incorrect that you said that the European Commission is responding from these initiatives. So completely incorrect. It's incorrect that the fishing chapter is blocked. We have recently reached the Negotiating position on fishing. So it's not blocked anymore. You speak blocked, no longer blocked. Of course you're going further in the negotiations, but you've said a lot incorrectly, but later in my act, I'm going to correct you into a lot of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18382	I don't think anyone's going to travel to Slovenia this afternoon, but let's move on through the debate. It's Dragutin Bodakosh's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18383	Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here we have a chance today to discuss three reports, two from the National Committee and one from the Government. Reports on the work of the National Committee in 2007 are of high quality, and I would only refer to the part showing the situation in Chapter 11. Agriculture and rural development, 12. Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary control and Chapter 13. - Fishing. Why have I singled out these three chapters? Because I believe that all three are important to our country in this negotiation process because the areas are precisely economies and have one special meaning for our citizens involved in this segment of life. It's this particular chapter 11. I consider agriculture and rural development to be one of the most difficult and comprehensive chapters. The screening itself has already begun at the end of 2005, and what is important is that European common agricultural policy regulates many binding rules that we must adopt and ensure their implementation so that we can face a competitive approach that we will have from the European Community. Also, almost half of the European Union's budget is being wasteful on this common agricultural policy. Therefore, they hold much to that part. The same is true among us, agriculture still has 10% of gross income on agricultural waste, and estimates that nearly half a million inhabitants live on agricultural holdings. Income itself is also considered to be 10% of the working population derived from this activity. In particular, there is a marked state of food and its price in the last year, which gives me one more meaning of how we will be self-sufficient in this production and how Croatia will achieve this self-sufficiency under all these conditions that we will have to provide for negotiations with the European Union regarding this chapter. I think that Croatia can do so primarily with a good agricultural policy, especially in the use of its resources, and I primarily consider the resources we have in agricultural production in Slavonia and Baranja. When it set out to comply with the acquis, it was found that there are a number of measures in Croatia's agricultural policy that are incompatible with these gains. What's the situation today, so that's where we saw it in 2005. At the time, it was already evident that one of the issues that would be very difficult to agree is the issue of state aid. There's a question of why. Because it is precisely these support that differs significantly from these European ones, and the question is, where are we today regarding these support. I do not think the amendments to the Law on aids that were the product of the coalition agreement by the ruling parties are in line with the support in the model of the European Union. And the last conversation we had on the Committee on Agriculture with the Bundestag delegation was one of the first questions when we're going to transfer that support system from the product to the hectare. The ministry's promises were and they were still going to go to make it, but we don't have it yet. We and day-to-day ad hoc sort things out. Here's an example, I recently read that there will be increased support for corn for thousands of kunas because corn is low today and therefore should now be increased support. What policy is that? It's an ad hoc policy that certainly brings nothing of quality. I'm also asking myself a question, but primarily to the government. How will this chapter be opened, if we allegedly have 28 more questions to ask until we agree to them? Apparently, no country that has negotiated has sought so many exceptions in this chapter. If the chapter does not open, we will have to wait and urgently comply with some legal provisions that we ourselves know are not in line with, as is this Act on Support. This Regulation shall enter into - Fishing. I think the situation here is even worse, no matter what we heard from the minister today that it wasn't stopped, that it was stopped, that it would now start because ZERP has long forgotten. It's one past, and it was like when we shut down, we abolished the main obstacle to the negotiations we're having in the fishing industry. However, for this chapter as long as I had the opportunity to read it took us a long time to get a call to open it, and now we have nine requests for transitional periods again. What will be adopted? The traditional tools used by fishermen in Croatia are mentioned, the possibility of using double standards for fishermen, retaining tuna quotas, is the only quota. However, the most significant is that the reference year for determining the force of the fleet should be the year of entry into the European Union. I think it's important because our fleet must be weak and should be built as such. However, in this chapter, the uncertainty of opening is not great and we have not received any quality answers from the minister today when it should be around. In general, the report of the National Committee is very extensive and is taxing to show us the state that took place in 2007 and the continuation of 2008. Moving with negotiations in this year is necessary and necessary to be whole as such to show that you and the assessment where we are with these negotiations and given by the Government fast enough and quality vehicles as promised. We also have today's government report presented by the minister. The report is full of praise that chronology is not so visible, and according to the questions raised in chapters 11 and 13, it will be very difficult to be realized. The basic question that I believe is that we, both as a Parliament and as a state, need to do, which is to stabilise food production. It is certainly not realised in this form in order to have production that will be competitive with the common agricultural policy of the European Union when we enter it. And finally, I think I have to say that I have until then to continue to listen to what we hear and to the warnings of the head of the European Commission, that Croatia must do much more to meet the criteria in order to open all these chapters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18384	Thank you very much. The speech was requested by a representative of foreign and European integration ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18385	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's just a short I'd like to look back on a few things that... I'm sorry I'm late, but there's a secretary of the Italian Republic here, so I had a meeting with him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're asking the question, why so many transitionals, why are we looking for so many transitional periods in the agricultural chapter? Because this is our negotiating position, because we believe that we need to fight for as much as possible in these negotiations and we have defined those areas where we believe it is worth negotiating and get the best possible solutions for Croatia. But now you're misleading me, because a representative of your club says it's important content is not an important deadline. You now say at the same time, as long as we negotiate it when we have so many demands. We're mourning exactly the middle between one and the other. So don't jeopardize content, don't endanger quality but also think about time. As far as fishing is concerned, the subject of today's report is not what it will be or what it is, but what it was. And this is the report on the work of the National Committee for the past year and for the first half of this year, as well as the debate on the Slovenian Presidency. So I didn't talk about it, but if there is a need, we can talk about perspectives, and they are, by all accounts, good for Croatia. Croatia has submitted 31 negotiating positions, which means that in chapter 30 Croatia is ready to open negotiations. We are now expecting a response from other parties, so the European Commission and the member states. It's not just about us. In chapter 30, we met the opening criteria, presented our negotiating positions, which means that Croatia is fully prepared to open negotiations in 30 and one. And that is what is important about how long these negotiations will take, which will be sought by the other side, or by the Member States. We can't know at this point. But that we will take care of our interests, that we will take care of the quality of the final results of these negotiations and that this happens during 2009. Be assured we'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18386	Correction of an incorrect quote, Representative Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18387	So I didn't say anything that was indisputable with our... but the question is why I asked myself why the Act on Support which does not comply with the Law of the European Union and which we know is not in order and which will make it impossible for us to open this chapter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why do we force it so much when we don't go to making new ones, but we stick to what was in the coalition agreement as it was written, and what is ecldently beyond what Europe is looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18388	Let's move on with the debate. Representative Branko Box. He's gone. Next up, it's Agent Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18389	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. I will begin this debate only once, that we believe that the National Committee should extend its competence to the three areas I talked about when I spoke on behalf of the club, and that I should give an opinion on the necessary reforms and adjustments to the supervision and promotion of the implementation of the legislation. That's what I was talking about on behalf of the club when unfortunately my colleague Zubovic didn't understand what I specifically talked about and about including Europe's citizens. I'm definitely going to have this debate right now, and I'm going to stay in it on this third topic, communicating Europe to the citizens. It is not disputed here in the Parliament that we want to and want to be a member of the European Union. That's what all parties want. It is not disputed that 150 MPs want it here and across the way from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but in the European Union we are not going to join it for 150 of us, but we are going to work for 4.5 million citizens who need and deserve to know a lot more about the European Union than they know right now. The fact is that it tells us that at this point we have 50% support for the European Union with certain oscillations and that we have a relatively weak communication campaign for Europe to citizens. We do not need to be wise, we should only see examples in the European Union, after you know the collapse of the referendum in the Netherlands and France, the European Commission has started with a plan D in 2005, because research into public change in the European Union shows that citizens consider the institutions of the Union very bureaucratic, far and incomprehensible. And that's when this so-called. Plan D with the aim of strengthening social cohesion, political vision and solidarity, as the Union is a joint project for all its citizens. I plan D called on that so-called. a period of reflection listening to citizens' views on the problems of the European Union, structured on three topics of European economic and social development, attitudes towards the EU and the borders of the European Union. At the end of 2007, the first projects co-financed by the European Commission were completed just to extend the "Plan D" through, say, different associations of citizens so that the debate and democracy on the European Union would spread to the public. As they ended, so on Kranj hill means at the end of last year there was a debate and the results of Plan B and Croatia were classified as candidates in the ranking of those countries that should work more to communicate the European Union to citizens. The principles of this communication are primarily to listen to citizens what they think of the European Union itself. Secondly, to inform citizens about European policies and what these policies bring to them and what new values the European Union brings to them. And third, communicate adaptations to local environments to local self-government units. Just to get back to these other two, citizens' intelligence. counterpart Pejcinovic-Buric said one thing that all who saw the negotiating positions were satisfied with it. My question here is which one is all of them? Does four and a half million citizens of this country that make this job and doing it happen in one place, see if on the Internet... We are all negotiating positions, because this is part of the communication of the European Union to citizens also have the right to know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's another thing. The laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking are passed here in the Assembly. And it's our job to make local self-government units and these laws communicate, to have our county, our regions see what they get with the laws. We have a problem right now that we don't have control over how the laws are implemented, let alone uncommunicating them to local self-government units. And that's what we were warned about right at Kranj's hill that such things had to change. There are two major problems in the Republic of Croatia. First, who communicates with the European Union. They're not the problem, people. The problem is the number of people who communicate with the Union. With us if you read the news about the European Union you get from the mouth of several people from the Government, several from the Parliament and several from the European Commission and the European Parliament. It remains a very small number of people who communicate with the European Union. Now, if we do a public change survey here in Croatia, tell me freely whether the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be able to list more than two or three members of the European Commission or the European Parliament. So the problem is who in Croatia communicates with the Union, and the other problem is how it communicates. I often participated in conversations where communication was conducted with acronyms. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not benefit if we speak to them SAPARD, IPARD, CARDS, PHARE, OLAF, ITF, IEU etc. It is necessary to communicate simply and should be clarified as I have already told citizens the advantages and values that come with the Union. To change this means first of all to include a wider circle of stakeholders in the process. So, in the communication of the Union it should be the National Committee, it should be the Parliament. We have the Ministry. Entrepreneurs should be involved, the civil sector is even stronger than it is now involved. Because consider that the money to which the Ministry of Science is, pardon European integration supports projects of communication associations on the European Union for 2006, the seventh and eighth are less than the sum of one IPA project to communicate the European Union here in Croatia. Increase that amount, too. So, to increase the general budget for 2009, to communicate Europe to citizens, because if we don't do that now, the question is when we will. And in the end, how do you communicate with stakeholders? We need to make it clear to the farmers, not just to talk about the SAPARD. They need to be told what a European agricultural policy brings, that 36% of the Union's funding goes into agricultural policy, that those with small pieces of land can also get support for at least their support and if nothing else increases their value of real estate, because the European Union's agricultural policy, for example, is one social key that is little to talk about in Croatia. Our students need a clear explanation of what European education policies are. What is a specific mobility? How and how, with the support of the Union, I can spend every semester at another university. Unfortunately, it doesn't communicate, because we haven't been able to complete the accreditation of the Mobility Agency yet, and we won't be able to for at least a year what's our problem then with... It's the same thing with the academic community and the entrepreneurs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our entrepreneurs need not only to communicate with the European Union funds, but concrete support should be given to the state, and projects such as entrepreneurial learning should be started, as only then, through simple communication and concrete projects, the image of the Union will begin to change. I'll do it again – we still have, in my personal opinion, a pretty low percentage. That's it. Fifty-fifty. There should be a much higher percentage of those who support Croatia's entry into the European Union, and I believe that, with the extension of the powers of the National Committee, we should start here and then move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18390	Thank you very much. The word was once again requested by a government official, Minister Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18391	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, with one part of your exposure, I agree, there is one part I cannot agree with. You have divided the process of Croatia's entry into the European Union into three parts. One is negotiations, one is reforms, and one is communication to the citizens, and I agree with that. In this part, you've defined yourself and talked about this third segment, which is communication. Communication is a problem not only in Croatia, but it is a problem that burdens all EU member states, and it is best seen for example in referendums that have not passed in France and the Netherlands, as well as in a referendum in Ireland. The slogan of those who were against the Lisbon Treaty in Ireland was if you don't understand, if you don't know how to vote against it. Why did that happen? Why is that? Because only the European Union is very complex, because it is difficult for you to say simply to communicate. If this could simply be communicated then no one would have a problem and support to the European Union itself within the Member States would be much bigger than it is. However, the European Union responds to the challenges of globalisation, the European Union is not to blame for what is happening in Western European countries, but it is the only possible answer that Western Europe and other parts of Europe that have eventually become part of the European Union defend themselves from these challenges of globalisation in which we live today. That explains it to citizens who have lived or lived so far the best in the world I dare say so. The best quality of life is when everything is summed up and taken away in the Member States of the European Union that have high wages, which have a high level of social protection, which today is questionable not because the European Union is bad, but because the environment in which we all live today is different. Because the salaries of those who work in China, India or in another country that competes in the European Union are much lower than workers in the European Union and these are real problems. But to communicate this, to talk about the reform process, everyone is afraid of change. Everyone kind of takes it off when it's about changing themselves. This happens very often in Member States, especially in countries such as Croatia which is a candidate and which is very close to joining membership. So these are objective problems that, not to run from, but to be faced with. What are we going to do next? The new secretary of state, I mentioned, I don't know if you were here before the break the new secretary of state for European integration was Mr Davor Bozinović, former ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to NATO who has great experience in developing a communication strategy and has been very successful together with other state authorities to campaign for NATO. It is a man who today will deal equally with the issues of European Union communication to citizens. We announce going out into the field among citizens, among entrepreneurs, among farmers, among trade unions, academic community, and we will do it even more intensively than ever before. Let's not forget a lot has been done so far. We also have support for the European Union, which was about 30%, but it was mostly low in the moments of some major political crises, and when Croatia was to break some major national issues over its back, that support would fall to the lowest level. The citizens of Croatia certainly understand that it is our interest to become members of the European Union and NATO because in this way they address the issue of their security, their stability and peace and better living standards because there is not one Member State in which to live worse today than it is, or that once lived better and today when the country became a member of the European Union to live worse. So these are also arguments sent by us who deal with politics from both the government and the Parliament ranks, but I repeat what I said before. The process of Croatia's entry into the European Union is not only a process and a political structure issue, but a whole society issue. And we all have to accept the fact but each and every one of us has a personal responsibility to participate because it brings us a better one. And any political debate that doesn't care that it's a common interest and that it concerns all of us and if we put our narrow party interests ahead of the community's interests, of course, then we'll make communication more difficult. When you asked who was communicating with the European Union, you only talked about the government, the Parliament, the parliamentary representatives, the politicians. But our negotiating teams count about 2,000 people and they are deliberately so dimensioned that as many people as possible get involved in the process. Because you have 20, two thousand people, couriers who carry their knowledge, who carry their experiences to their friends, their acquaintances, business partners, and we believe that it is also one of the powerful channels through which we can communicate the European Union. We're going to go and she's already going to campaign, but we're going to step up and we're going to go to the local media. On local radio stations, on local printed media because we think that this will best help us get to people in smaller areas who may not have enough information about the European Union. As far as you're concerned, you said that the negotiating positions should be public and that, even so, they should communicate better with the European Union. I'm not sure that's the case. The conduct of other countries' experiences in no country's negotiating positions were public until the time of the conclusion of the negotiations. For this reason, we have established a national committee so that all of us who are responsible and who are involved in this process are well informed and the SDP has adopted these rules. And the SDP agreed that the negotiating positions will not be public until the time the negotiations are concluded. I don't know if it's you, or if it's your personal opinion. And as for the jurisdiction of the National Committee that you also spoke of, it's a matter of this House. If there is a majority in the Croatian Parliament that will change the competences of the National Committee, then that will be the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18392	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. The word is represented by Franjo Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18393	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here at first I will say right away that obviously from these steps Mr. Jandrokovic's foreign minister is free to say that the ministry and the one headed by this ministry really has one extraordinary public communication, so today he is also using to meet those who are obviously not close to what it is really about when we talk about the state of negotiations and in general about the negotiation process. I will concentrate on this topic which is ahead of us, which is: reports on the work of the National Committee and, of course, the state of the negotiations that the minister himself spoke of. Let me immediately at the beginning as a member of the National Committee tell you that the National Committee really works very well. The president of the National Committee said that he did not serve what they tried to do, which some MPs tried to say that they did not know the way the National Committee function, so they tried to say how he serves only for consensus to support the government's views. That's just not true. We have very good quality discussions and we are very active in creating the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union. Namely, our suggestions on the National Committee come very often to the conclusion and to the final position that the Government, not very often but as a rule of all our demands, all of our legitimate demands that, which we communicate with the negotiating team, are ultimately part of the final negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia towards the European Union. In addition to the binding opinion of the National Committee is therefore binding on everything and so on, I really think that in these discussions we all raise ourselves above party issues together and that we are really protecting national interests and, in that sense, I would like to say personally that all members are very responsible and mature in approach to the work of the National Committee. So in order to avoid any doubts and condescending that, unfortunately, there have been debates here, as we condescendingly approach certain things in negotiations with the European Union, it is simply not true. We defend our positions spoken of by the Minister, Mr Jandrokovic and our views on transitional periods because we believe that in this way we will be able to enter the European Union in the most painless and qualitative way and with a certain time period so that our citizens can join this project in the best possible way. And it is therefore not logical that by the end of the negotiation process the negotiating position is announced because the question is what will happen in the negotiations, the question is what will the other party, the party to whom we approach accept from our demands in the negotiation process. It is therefore completely irrational to demand that certain positions be revealed and it is indeed inappropriate to talk about. So we should trust each other, in this we are all united and indeed in an extraordinary consensus that has not been present in the Croatian Parliament so far, and so I think that we can give a good answer to this negotiation task. And what's been done so far? Of the 33 chapters we have, we have opened chapter 21, so they are open to negotiations, three of which are temporarily closed, and for the rest of the chapters we have brought, so for the remaining 10 chapters we have brought negotiating positions, we have fulfilled all the criteria for opening 31 chapters. So, all that was expected as a prerequisite from Croatia, Croatia has fulfilled a great deal. Considering the fact that Croatia is actually the first country to negotiate with the European Union in the way it negotiates today, which is by introducing standards. So for none of the countries that negotiated before us, so those who negotiated for entry in 2004, none of them were set standards, were involved in the negotiation process. That's very important. Why? Because the European Union, or the European Commission, has, in these negotiations with these countries, seen all the shortcomings in the negotiations that have had and all the shortcomings in the implementation of all these negotiating chapters, i.e. all of the legislation of the aquis, and, of course, that it has put ahead of Croatia a significantly stricter, let's say the criteria, significantly more stringent assumptions and requirements that Croatia fulfils and very high quality. That is what the recognitions coming from the European Commission are about. In fact, all we want to do is work for ourselves because we think that tomorrow and today we will already have better standards, that we will live better, that we will have better standards and that we will simply have a better future for all Croatian citizens in this community of European countries. These are our motives. Our strategic goals are of course to join the European Union and join the NATO Alliance and here we are on the verge of achieving these two strategic goals of the Croatian state around which there are consensus in this Croatian Assembly. So, we should commend all of those, first of all I think of outside the Republic of Croatia, I mean the negotiating team that has indeed made an extremely large deal since the opening of the negotiations, so since 2005. Some people ask why we didn't before. Well, I think if they're already asking that question, we should ask each other a different question. Why did we not open a topic that was imposed after an interview by Mr Ferheugen, who was otherwise the Commissioner of the European Commission for Enlargement when the member states entered today, so since 2004, who said that a secret service of a Member State had been misleading the European Commission right at the time when Croatia was applying and when it asked for the start of negotiations. Let's say this is a very interesting topic that I am personally interested in, which I believe would also interest the entire population of Croatia. I think it's interesting enough to open up to the public, but I haven't seen much of an interest in the media. What are the reasons I don't want to speculate about it simply, but personally I think it's a very interesting subject and quite certain that we started negotiations a year or two ago to probably end those negotiations today. But when we talk about the year of reception, or about the date then we must clearly say, it is our wish and our view that we can finish negotiations by autumn 2009, and that is what the other parties assure us, we are convinced by the representatives of the European Commission and Mr Barroso himself, the President of the European Commission has voiced hope that Croatia can complete all negotiations with the European Union by the autumn of 2009, or until the end of the work of this European Commission. We'll do everything on our side to make it happen. What we've done so far is already a significant part of that job because it doesn't depend at this point on us anymore. Indeed, we could see that from these steps and from the representatives of the European Commission, as well as from those of some Member States who have not responded most adequately. For example, a concrete question comes forward by the former, now former Slovenian Foreign Minister. So, it is not just up to us, but we believe that in view of everything that has happened over the past period since France took over the Presidency of the European Commission, we believe that we will indeed have an adequate response and indeed do, because since the European Commission has significantly accelerated the processes and the issue of opening chapters is indeed ahead of us for the end of October, the international conference that will be held in Brussels will give us an answer to the question of how many new chapters we will open, we believe between 3 and 5, what hopes and in the ministry, and the two chapters could certainly be closed. So when we talk about the year of reception, then we must first and foremost have the conclusion of the negotiations and then the process that follows, namely ratification, which is the individual adoption of that decision in the parliaments of all the Member States of the European Union. So even then, at that moment, it depends exclusively on the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union when we enter, and I believe that it will happen all through 2010 so that, quite certainly, if this part happens as scheduled by the autumn of 2009, then in 2010, at the latest, we can become a full member of the European Union. Here again, of course, by accepting all that is in the report on the work of the National Committee and by supporting its work from the negotiations itself, which Mr. Minister has spoken of, we can be pleased with the state of negotiations today and with the perspective that is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18394	Representative Matušić has slightly broken time, I hope you will not take his steps. It is up to representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18395	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. That's why I'm going to be a little shorter so when Franno was a little longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18396	That's correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18397	Today we have a report on the accession negotiations and the course of accession negotiations and the report on the work of the National Committee of the Croatian Parliament. I will say very briefly that Croatian accession negotiations differ from all other countries that have had negotiations to join the European Union so far, we have to say that because it is rarely mentioned that there are countries that have never had negotiations, and these are those countries that have been in the European Community since the beginning, and often these countries may not understand as much about those countries that have to negotiate because they did not last time and do not know how difficult it is for those who do so, and for those of Croatia who expect the results of such negotiations and who expect a different life by entering Croatia into the European Union. There is a National Committee in the Croatian Parliament, and these were not other countries. I can say that the National Committee in the Croatian Assembly, led by Mrs Pusic, works very well. To do much, that our sessions are a few times and a few hours long, but in the end we still manage to master all the material needed to move the negotiations on. We also agreed today on the continued work of round tables, and I think that these round tables will contribute as much as possible to informing the public about the course of negotiations and what is happening in the context of negotiations with the European Union, and I hope that Mrs Pusic, as well as so far, will successfully and these round tables lead clearly as agreed, with the agreement of our negotiating team. Here I would like to mention that Croatia could have gone faster and be far ahead with the negotiations if it had no problem about what Mr. Matušić said, as Mr. Ferheugen said and what our Minister Jandrokovic said about the problems we had with Slovenia. These problems with the announcement that Mr. Rupel said seem to be still alive, I think it would be good for Mr. Rupel, who has been at the head of Slovenian diplomacy for many years, I think he is right now speaking such words as to avoid telling the Slovenian public the truth about the border between Croatia and Slovenia. But I think the time is coming for Slovenian politicians to have to tell their people the truth about the border between Croatia and Slovenia, and it is best seen that no foreign body, arbitration on the border, is accepted, because such truth would be seen very quickly. I hope that when Slovenian politicians who are responsible, they will decide to tell the truth to their people, that they will stop at all the issue of borders, and then they will not even be put into the bilateral issue of Croatia and Slovenia now in the context of negotiations with the European Union, Croatia with the European Union or Croatia's entry into the European Union. I can say that we in the Croatian Parliament have done a great job, exactly as the President of the Parliament Mr Luka Bebić said at the beginning of the term of office, that the Parliament will work full-time and that these 120 laws that we need to pass this year will do so. We have already passed around 100 laws, and I think it must be said that in the Croatian Parliament, in committees in the Croatian Parliament that all these laws, all these laws go through committees in the Parliament, so that is what I mean because there is a gentleman from the SDP who mentioned that he should include committees. He is obviously not informed that every law must pass the board. I must stress that in the Croatian Parliament, there is a lot of work to be done in order to make Croatia’s entry into the European Union as better, better and faster as possible. Here's what I'd end up with, to be as I promised, short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18398	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Agent Daniel Mindekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18399	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, I guess we know what the role of the constituency committees is. I didn't enter the board's role to propose that law be passed at the plenary session. It's that when laws are passed, committees are actively involved in monitoring its implementation. There, that's what I said. You've said something twice that I didn't say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18400	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Frano Matušić. What replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18401	A little while ago, I'm actually taking this opportunity to tell Mr. Zubovic through a replica of what I simply didn't have time to say while I was exhibiting my exposure. So you mentioned the question of quality and speed. It is unquestionable that quality is simply implying, or it is inside, it is contained at that speed. It is not possible to talk about the work of the National Committee or the work of the negotiating team to question quality. So there is simply no doubt that it is working in the best possible way both in the negotiating teams in both the government and the National Committee and the Croatian Parliament. So we don't need to question quality at all and say now because we want to enter quickly as September 2009, we want to finish negotiations, the question is what quality will be. There is no question that we will access the negotiations with the European Union in the best possible way. So it is not questionable quality at all, and it cannot be brought into the speed-by-quality correlation because we are simply all at the point of view that negotiations must be quality and that the simple quality of negotiations must be reflected both in everyday life and in this sense speed is no problem at all. Speed, it just doesn't have anything to do with each other. So in this sense, all the criticisms that come from the individuals that I have to say don't understand this negotiation process, at least possibly the speed of impact on quality simply doesn't stand. That doesn't stand. Unfortunately, the fellow who spoke about it is no longer in the assembly. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18402	Thank you. It's Mrs. Nevenka Marinović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18403	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will focus my debate on the report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2007 and for the first 6 months of 2008. The introduction of the report on the work of the National Committee shows that in 2007 the Presidency of the European Union sent calls to Croatia for negotiating positions on 11 chapters, that the Republic of Croatia had set up 12 negotiating positions to the Presidency of the European Union in 2007, that negotiations were opened in 11 negotiating chapters, provisionally closed in 2 chapters, that the European Union had set out the criteria to be met for the opening of negotiations in 4 negotiating chapters, but also that the European Union had established the criteria for closing in 11 open chapters. Furthermore, the report in the held sessions shows that the National Committee agreed with the proposals for the 11 chapters negotiating positions, supported the proposal for negotiating positions for 2 chapters, gave an opinion on one proposal for a negotiating position for Chapter 10, that the negotiating group was reporting to the National Committee on the course of the negotiating process on the criteria obtained and the activities to meet the criteria obtained, and that the screening of the European Commission's 12-chapter reports was discussed. From the report on the state of negotiations and the activities of the National Committee in 2007 I will stick to some chapters that are open to some who are not. Of the open chapters, we have Chapter 6 which consists of legal companies consisting of the rights of companies in a narrow sense, accounting and audit. During the shooting, it was estimated that the Croatian legislation is significantly in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, that there is a slightly lower compliance with the audit, and in the field of accounting it is also in front of the European Union. Although there are no problems in the harmonisation and application of legislation in the whole chapter, however, the European Union has identified 4 additional ones, meaning 4 criteria that the Republic of Croatia needs to meet to close negotiations in this chapter. As far as Chapter 9 is concerned, – Financial services, although this is a large and technically demanding negotiating chapter, due to the extensive legal gain, a high level of harmonisation has been achieved in certain segments, is slightly less connected to securities. The criteria have also been established. From the chapters that are not open we have already said something here about the chapter of agriculture and rural development, where the degree of compliance of Croatia with the European Union is still not enough, what is visible from the report, which is that the basic reason for non-compliance lies in the fact that in 2005 the European Union changed the entire system of financing agriculture and moved from incentives, i.e. payments per hectare to a single payment per farm, where the agricultural producer receives a certain amount of money, independent of what it produces and actually gives products. The next reason why there is non-compliance is this inability to comply with the instruments of trade policy until the entry into the European Union because we have assumed in this area the obligations of membership in the world trade organisation. The Republic of Croatia has also taken over the European system of environmental production control and all systems solutions are set up equally, but there needs to be further harmonisation in simplifying procedures. A system of accounting data in agriculture has not yet been established here. However, as far as quality policy is concerned, very significant shifts have been made. It is almost fully in line with European standards. There is also an additional harmonisation on important issues. The level of compliance in this Chapter is extremely low in relation to the market lines, milk quotas, support for the raising of vineyards, meat incentives, olive groves and olive oil, but that is what further discussion needs to be made. It is completely uncoordinated in the plant production of fruits and vegetables and their processing, and there is plenty of room for negotiations. However, in October 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered to the National Committee a strategy to improve the statistics of agriculture of the Republic of Croatia and thus, as one of the documents, made assumptions for meeting the criteria for opening negotiations in this chapter. In the chapter of fisheries that is the same as we often call on, and it has already been mentioned here, shaming has shown that the Republic of Croatia is the most harmonised in terms of management in this segment, resource management especially in the protection of biological resources, i.e. the minimum catch sizes of fish, where compliance is almost 100%. The fishing quotas relate to tuna in which the Republic of Croatia applies the same provisions as the European Commission and when we become a member, we will be able to retain the same quotas. Something worse is connected to the fishing fleet. However, in the past 2 years, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made very big shifts, positions were delivered in the 9th month, meaning on the basis of the arrangement of registers of satellite ship tracking systems, control and infrastructure construction. As regards the 2008 Supervisory Board's report, we are looking forward to optimism based on the responsible work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the National Committee and the negotiating team, as well as other participants in this process in the past period. The status of the negotiation process in early 2008 despite specificities in 2007 means a stalemate with Slovenia, the elections but others, it is much better. The President of the National Committee has said since June they are much better than they were in early 2008 and this is a sign that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all the other factors have done all the work to open new negotiating chapters, that the negotiating positions have been committed, and that the European Party is waiting to prepare its positions for the negotiations. We are waiting for an intergovernmental conference in October, we expect new chapters to be opened but there is a possibility that negotiations will begin at this intergovernmental conference and from 4 major chapters for which only recently negotiating positions have been delivered. The number of chapters to be opened depends on multiple factors. I said that the government made on its own an enormous amount, almost everything. Some are, but it's not just up to the government. Some of the chapters are under the so-called. Let the silent blockade of Slovenia depend on the speed to which the European Commission will prepare the necessary documents rather than on the speed to which the Member States will discuss and accept these reports. And this is where the National Committee and everyone else can do more. Conclusion: I would like to conclude that I support, of course, the report of the National Committee for 2007 and 2008 regardless of the first 6 months of 2008 regardless of certain specificities in 2007, but they were accelerated, and these accelerated activities in 2008. The National Committee should note here that it has played a significant role as a body that has allowed negotiations to be carried out through the prior harmonisation of positions between parliamentary parties on issues relevant to negotiations in the accession of the European Union, which is certainly good. And given the high satisfaction of the National Committee, the work and expertise of Croatian negotiators and the quality of cooperation with the negotiating group and the main negotiator's office, as well as the intensive activities, efforts and results of the Government of Croatia on the reforms needed to meet the criteria for the opening and closing of chapters, as well as the accelerated activities to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, there is no reason to doubt the effectiveness of the continuation and conclusion of negotiations within the deadlines set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18404	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18405	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let me make some notes in the introduction to make it easier to define the problem I want to say something about. I, as a representative who does not participate in the work of the National Committee, would like to know much more about the position of the Republic of Croatia in these negotiations. It's not me. It's the ones I represent here. Therefore, the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union are a process in which the Republic of Croatia is obliged to adapt its legal order, and I stress the legal order and not the laws, with the Aqui Community or to adopt and implement it, and I stress the application of the acquis and the legal heritage of the European Union and the European Community. And as the Minister of Foreign Affairs here said, this is indeed an undisputed proof that this process of negotiations and even more entry and life into the European Union concerns all citizens of the current and future citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In the negotiations, candidate countries may seek the so-called "communitaire" in areas where there is difficulty in accepting Aqui Communitaire in negotiations. the transitional periods during which, after its entry into the European Union, it will fully comply with the laws and standards in that area that exist in the European Union. As a result, by becoming an equal member of the European Union, the European Union does not remove the national borders of the Member States of the European Union because they do not exist, the European Union is not a country and it is beyond the control of these borders, neither will it disappear nor will national interests be abolished in the negotiations nor in the membership of the European Union itself. I would therefore immediately say that, in order to understand this process, it is very important to know the relations between the Government and the National Committee, the relationship between the Parliament and the National Committee and the relationship or responsibility of the citizens for this, the responsibility of the Citizens' Assembly for this process and the success of negotiations and entry into the European Union. The dilemma whether the speed or date of entry is the only or main objective of the negotiations, or whether these are national interests and the essence of the entry into the European Union, I would say is just the opposite number. So first they're national interests. The protection of national interest, ensuring the competitiveness of Croatian citizens and Croatian society in general, in particular, businesses and economies, therefore preparing for entry into the European Union is then the speed behind it. If only the speed becomes meaning and the national interest then we've lost the essence. That is why it is very important to point out or give some examples of how far we have come and how we treat these things. Given that the Croatian foreign policy's declared priority is an astounding fact that this analysis of the course of negotiations on each of the 33 chapters of the acquis of the European Union is only concentrated in this relatively small report. In addition, it explains the essence and problems of the process. It is very interesting, but it is not particularly convincing that the government has a positive view of its own policy of accession negotiations with the European Union and of the preparation of Croatian society and Croatian citizens and of the economy for the competitive ability of life in the European Union. Such an assessment I would like to give the National Committee and propose such an assessment to the Parliament because it is the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament and now I think of the National Committee. Without that responsibility alone, the very conclusion of the Croatian government is a story about itself or it is a conflict of interest in the government itself. As for the work itself, the work of the National Committee should be stressed that only 7 sessions were held in 2007. The causes of this report are only somewhat understandable. Of the three most profitable ones, it is most understandable that the Government and the National Committee could not influence the fact that there have been delays in some chapters because of the attitudes of the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia. However, it is a deadlock of only 3 chapters; foreign, security and defence policies, fishing, economy, freedom and security. So the question is, what about the other 30 chapters in that year? The parliamentary elections held in autumn 2007 cannot be an excuse for slow negotiations, as the elections do not last 12 months, nor do they cost life in the Republic of Croatia or in the European Union. This can only be proof that the government was unable to assume the national interests of party interests. It should be pointed out that it took the Government of the Republic of Croatia 449 days to define the negotiating positions under Chapter 16. - Taxes. In 2007. On average, it took the government three times more time than in 2006 to carry out the same amount of work in the negotiation process. Such or such arguments cannot satisfy either the Croatian Parliament or the Croatian citizens. It's about the interests of Croatian citizens. In Chapter 19. – Social policy and employment is very interesting here, the European Union set one criterion for opening negotiations in 18.7.2006. A year and a month later, the government presented an action plan for meeting the criteria to the National Committee in 30.8.2007. The negotiating position was created 8 months later, and 2 months after that another 17.6.2008 negotiations were opened. So two years from setting the scales. What's causing it? Is this, such a time period, whether such a time period is the cause of the reforms that the government has done and spent in Croatian society, in the Croatian legal system, in a legal order that will allow for the rapid closure of these chapters. What about the grades of those issues the public knows about like shipbuilding? Can we get the position of the National Committee on these issues? That, in my opinion, is the essence of the negotiation process and we must not hide it from our citizens. They will suffer the consequences and bear the benefits of joining the European Union and the process of joining the European Union. I have, of course, several examples that I have drawn from these reports, but I think in these few sentences I have taken my view of the negotiation process with the European Union not for myself, but for those whom I have chosen here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18406	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18407	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I would say at the beginning that it is no exaggeration to say that the negotiating process between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union is one of the most important tasks of Croatian state policy today without an alternative. Just as important as that important task of Croatian state policy in the 1990s, which was related to the defence of the Republic of Croatia. Why is this task of Croatian state policy extremely important today? I'd say for the following reasons. Because of the fact that the transformational capacity of the Republic of Croatia to a modern democratically competent society and a competitive economy depends on the speed of the process of approaching the European Union. The transformational capabilities of Croatia into a modern and competitive economy and society are significantly increasing and multiplying by Croatian entry into the European Union and these are important findings that need to be stressed and that we must be very aware of, because our internal transformation capabilities with our human potential, however, without these negotiating processes, without the support of the European Union, without reviews, without their experts would be significantly less. And these important, key, strategic advantages that we have to stress in particular as part of what the foreign minister said as part of a communication strategy that should be brought closer and explained to ordinary people why this process for the Republic of Croatia, all of its citizens, and especially for those young people, is very important and that this is a process and a task that has no alternative. I would now be limited to discussing certain negotiating chapters because these discussions illustrate some other phenomena that we may have talked less about and which we may be less aware of. These are our internal resistances. These are our habits, because some are beautiful or some are so good that they would be very happy to stay for so long, but it's almost impossible. Here, one of the negotiating areas of energy. The separation of energy activities in production, transmission, distribution was a major and important organisational requirement for the Croatian electricity system. People claimed that we were effective, we did a good job for 50 years, and there's no reason to change. However, this so - called one. am Bangling, separation of activity prerequisites in order to create all those assumptions necessary for new investments in the construction of production power systems, transmission network planning, separation of regulated and unregulated activities. These are all the objectives and tasks that have been an integral part of this negotiating chapter and that is to contribute to our internal restructuring, the reorganisation that has been brought to us by the negotiations processes with the European Union. We can look back on the shipbuilding, whether it's restructuring or privatisation. Alternatives are clear, advantages and disadvantages may be less. But I'd say it's very simple. There's been plenty of opportunities and plenty of time to restructure. We made it in a way that's still visible today. We work a little bit, we don't do much, or very often we don't do minuses, deficits. It is the state that has always been the last one to resuscitate behavior that is not a competitive, efficient company. Therefore, the time for restructuring is no longer available, especially restructuring in a Balkan inefficient way is something that is unacceptable. We're left with an alternative to privatisation. Privatisation of your capital, the owner of your capital, in his interest to increase profits dictates rules of restructuring that can be harsh, which can be unacceptable for many who have not learned, who are not ready hard, hard and hard to work. Privatisation is an alternative, but let's not have any illusions because Croatian shipbuilding is not a highly competitive industry and the question is how much will be the interest of capital to participate in restructuring the sector. So both are standing on the table. What's going to happen, I don't want to comment on this moment. One of the important negotiating chapters in which the Republic of Croatia has profited and will profit. It's also about statistics. I would say without exaggeration during the debate in the Croatian Parliament several times just stressed the outdated, insufficiently well-structured and inappropriate statistics, inappropriate to the modern economy. Just one illustration, one segment. The European Commission is forcing us to make it clear in statistics that medium and small knowledge-based companies, which are founded on innovation and technology, were not all in our outdated statistics. The European Union and its statistics will force us to better understand the structural problems of the Croatian economy, not because of statistics, but because of ourselves and we believe that when we have an annual statistical report, we will see some changes that will be very useful for us and for a better understanding of the process of restructuring the Croatian economy ahead. I've stressed and I'm going to repeat, the negotiating process is changing us, the question is at what speed we're ready to change ourselves. The resistance to these changes is not unusual, especially in those parts of Croatian society, economy, I will not talk about energy, shipbuilding or other parts. Negotiating processes and some chapters are also important for research science. It is very important and it has been pointed out many times that 3% of GDP is something that needs to be provided to achieve knowledge-based economies. It is a difficult, but extremely important task ahead of us. How to ensure that the economy, that industry participates in the financing of applied research and development is a real challenge and is the right enigma, I would say here we are only at the beginning of these processes. Many other chapters that we will discuss and discuss, such as foreign security and defence policy of the European Union, increase the security of the Republic of Croatia as a state, budget issues are also clearly controlled by negotiating processes, fiscal policy, macroeconomic stability, etc. And in conclusion, it is no doubt that the negotiating process between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union is stabilising and directing the Republic of Croatia and its state policy and its strategy as a whole has ceased one of its headquarters elements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18408	Thank you. And finally, the chairman of the board, Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18409	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I thank absolutely all my colleagues and colleagues who participated in this debate and, on behalf of the National Committee, I can say that we have profited from this debate and one of the conclusions is that perhaps some of the topics in the negotiations might also have special discussions in the Assembly because this seemed to me certainly for our business of useful and objection and criticism and comments and suggestions. I'm going to comment on just a few things that have been said, I apologize to those, I think there was a colleague who spoke while I was away in the assembly, that's because we had a session of the National Committee at lunchtime just talking about the further organisation of round tables. It was said that Bodakosh was saying something about the situation in agriculture, politics and support. In this regard, Croatia is negotiating, in particular, the fact that the common agricultural policy of the European Union itself is in some kind of transition and some kind of debate, and this is also very likely to be parallel with the changes in us and the changes within the European Union, but what I think its debate has well pointed out and what is the fact that it shows just how important it is to have a consistent agricultural policy of its own. From a consistent own agricultural policy, of course, there is either a consistent position in the negotiations of the highest European Union. We, the truth, have asked for 29 delays or exceptions from the European Union directives in the negotiations, but they are not all of the same order of size or equal order of importance. Some are structural, so they really refer to diversity, say, or a policy deviation, and some are very specific. They may refer to some kind of product or to a specific product. What will be the final position at this time cannot be said because the Commission's first response will come, and then the European Union's position will come, so the member states in this regard, and there will certainly be great discussions on some very specific topics. What I can say is that the final position, so Croatia's final position on each of these chapters, and so agriculture will come to the debate in the National Committee, so after the negotiations are concluded and the final position is formulated, it will also come to debate and vote, i.e. taking a position on the National Committee. Through this Parliament will have insight and control and over these final positions of ours in each of the chapters when we see what of the delays and exceptions we have asked for, which will be adopted in that form or possibly in some other form or we will not be able to negotiate it, we will know ultimately before Croatia sends its definitive position. At this moment, we are in a situation where from today until the end of next year we have to close 30 chapters and open 12. It's our current position. It's a huge job, but in my opinion, and in the Committee's opinion, I do, if we concentrate on that job. What is significant and different in this business from what we have done so far, is that virtually all the closure criteria are evidence that we laws that we in this Parliament have passed and policies that have been supported by the Parliament, that they are actually and implemented and that the negotiation process of Croatia is different from all the others before us. We have to show, in my opinion, that's our advantage. Regardless of the difficulties that this creates for us in the negotiation process as far as the speeds are concerned, but our advantage is to show that we are able to implement our own laws and to establish our own institutions so that they function at least initially, before we end negotiations, so we will have a lot of problems that other countries now have when they have become members and have not gone through this process, we will avoid if we really succeed on time. My colleague Mondekar was talking about a few important things and I think he's well pointed out a whole series of things especially targeted groups with which we should have more intense communication. This is really important and we will take care of it and we will absolutely talk about how we can more actively these target groups such as students, farmers, entrepreneurs, etc. academic community, to include them in this communication. It is important that citizens know and understand why we are going to the European Union. There's no doubt about it, there's countless proofs why it's important. It's just one process that can't, one project that can't make a decision just by political elites. As for the problem of communication of the European Union to the citizens we have, it is also available to other countries. However, I think that the problem of communication is in the first place not because, not primarily, the European Union is so complicated but because the old members and also a part of the new members have taken the consensus and support of the citizens of their own country's membership in the European Union for granted. They felt it was more or less obvious and necessary and logical that people supported it. They were not aware, and I think that this is an important lesson for us, that there has been a shift of generations and that generation that is the result of a successful second world war exit from Europe, i.e. the result of World War II, which was seen by the European Union as a logical and obvious solution, this generation is on its way out. The generation that has come takes this as a founding state and seeks new reasons why it is found, first where it develops and why it is good for them and their countries. These are legitimate issues, these are legitimate issues in Croatia and we need to be able to answer these questions and therefore it is absolutely important to involve a much greater number of people in this communication and therefore it is very important to concentrate precisely in these closing criteria, so implementation of the legislation on broad communication and us all here in the Parliament and of course the Government, but also to expand through targeted groups of that communication. We do not need to repeat the same mistakes some old members have made in that communication with their own citizens. In this regard, we have also decided on the National Committee that our next topic of the round table, which as you know is open to the public and that representatives and interested, all interested groups, so institutions, NGOs, which we are working together with the negotiating team, i.e. in cooperation with the negotiating team, will be the judiciary. An important topic and, in my opinion, an absolutely crucial topic for assessing the success of the entire negotiation process. Just a few more notes. There have been some criticisms, and counterpart Leko mentioned this, that he would like to know much more about the negotiations, that the report is too ghastly about the information on the negotiations. So the report covers movement in certain chapters, shifts in certain segments that we are negotiating over a certain period of time. So six months this year, or earlier in 2007. As regards the content of the negotiating positions, all or practically all parties represented in this Parliament shall have their representatives sitting on the National Committee. All members of the National Committee receive all the negotiating positions and are familiar with the negotiating positions, and we have therefore set up a National Committee for Parliament to be fully informed on the one hand, and on the other hand not to prejudge some of the positions that we propose or the demands we make to the Commission and the Member States before we are on the clear which will succeed or fail to realise. Application of legal property. It's on the agenda now. My colleague Leko said it was a problem and we don't know much about it. It is now in turn, the application of the legal gains are de facto criteria for closing. And I fully agree that it is important to take care of this, that the National Committee will certainly be involved in this. We can discuss in what way and in what form, but it is really crucial not only because of the European Union, although as you know, I am a great advocate for us to end our negotiations, but because Croatian citizens must know that this is reflected in their life in some positive form. As far as the remarks on the speed of the process are concerned, it is true, for a number of reasons, that there has been an acceleration of the entire process in 2008, namely in the last 6.7 months. For a number of reasons, that's what happened, and that rate is the minimum of that pace we have to keep. Finally, objections were made to the views, i.e. the absence of the views of the National Committee on Shipbuilding. Of the 33 negotiating positions that Croatia proposes, i.e. to the European Commission and later to the Council, i.e. the Union, 2 have not yet been drawn up. One is competition and the other is justice and fundamental rights. The issue of shipbuilding is in the section of competition and I look forward to the fact that in the next report of the National Committee for the other 6 months of this year, Parliament will be able to report on this negotiating position, and then on all the topics that are related to it, and since the shipbuilding or restructuring of shipbuilding is one of the criteria for opening the competition right now. Thank you very much, once again, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18410	Thank you. And Foreign Minister Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18411	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to thank everyone very briefly for the debate. I believe that the debate was very useful, very correct and that it showed that there is a consensus about this main foreign policy objective of the Republic of Croatia. There may be different views on the instruments and the means to achieve that goal, but I think that is precisely in this diversity and we have our advantage over some other countries. We share the common faith and hope that we will achieve this goal in 2009, and we all want to protect Croatia's national interests as best as possible. I would therefore also like to thank the representatives of the position and those of the opposition, and at the last moments of this debate, however, I would like to reiterate that the circumstances in which all this is happening, the external political circumstances are not as favourable as they were in the last round of enlargement, that in the citizens of the European Union, there is fatigue in many countries, that there is a problem with ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, that there is a financial crisis, that there is a crisis of energy, food and in such circumstances the only and best solution for the Republic of Croatia is to become a member of strong international alliances and integrations such as NATO and such as the European Union. So, we have no alternatives, I believe that only by working together, only by working together, not just politics, I repeat this repeatedly during today's discussion, but by all segments of Croatian society and Croatian state, from the academic community, from entrepreneurs, the judiciary, health care, farmers. Everyone must participate in this process, everyone must understand this process and take part in the responsibility. This is a test for all of us, this is a test because we have to change, because we have to change our habits so far in our behavior. The European Union, one of the key words of the European Union, is competitiveness, is the willingness to compete with others, but not only within the European Union, but we are competing with all the countries of the world today. Globalisation is such a process that is difficult, which is demanding. We are not the ones in Croatia who have decided that the world will develop in this direction, but we must be prepared to respond to the challenges that globalisation faces. For this reason, I thank you once again and I call on you to really all together, so that all parties, in accordance with their capabilities, are involved in the process of communicating the European Union to citizens, to organise different stands, round tables, conferences, to inform our citizens as best as possible, and to get into the European Union as much as possible and to have a position within that European Union as the Republic of Croatia deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18412	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on these three reports. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Probably tomorrow. 12, Report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2007. The applicant is the National Committee. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2007 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that a report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2007 has been adopted unanimously from 107 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18553	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. And here we are facing one of the perhaps most important laws, a law that for the first time regulates very important areas in the economy, and what we can say today, with full right, is that so far the regulations have neither fully nor provided protection, and what is most important has not been adequately answered on the income side either local or state units. And why am I telling you this? For the simple reason that it took us almost two years to establish a concession register, but from the time we started and the concession register was established, it was very interesting that the revenues practically increased in two years in 153% and here I would like to highlight something, regardless of the political option in certain units of local self-government, was the same story about obtaining the contract and everything else that should be put into the concession register, so it clearly indicated not only that we should bring our legislation into line with the European Union, not only because of the protection of the wealth of the Republic of Croatia, but also that if someone already uses those resources that they must pay as a unit of local self-government or the state budget as already regulated by this law. Therefore, this law does not only bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legislation of the European Union, but also the right order in one area where there have been a lot of riots. At the beginning of this second reading, I would like to thank these discussions to all those who have made amendments to this law. One part of these amendments has already been implemented through the amendment committees, but there are also some useful advice that will certainly be incorporated into the final text of the draft of this law, because I think that regardless of the political option, we have given the position or opposition I think it is important for all of us here to make order, because if we do not make order in this area, and tomorrow we enter the European Union, then it will be very difficult to protect certain things. That's clear to say. Therefore, the new Law on concessions first and foremost defines three concessions, which are concessions for public works, public service concessions and concessions for the economic use of general goods or other goods. But what is important is how we have tried to adopt the specificities of the Croatian system and the principles of the existing legislative framework of concessions in the Republic of Croatia, because, regardless of the harmonisation of our legislation with the legislation of the European Union, Croatia still has its long-term tradition in this area and has good and bad experience and it would be a shame not to use these good experiences and install into this law what we have tried to do. This law also provides a basic framework for the implementation of a transparent concession procedure for public service concessions, concessions for the economic use of the common good or other good, which is specifically developed and upgraded through specific laws governing the specificity of a particular form and type of concession. And this is exactly what it is to say that unfortunately in the past times it has not been good, and that is the transparency of the concession process. And let's be honest and say to ourselves that we have contracts on concessions that date back to the former state. So, not only since the creation of the Croatian state. Therefore, I say when we pass the law, then it is necessary to speak openly of some problems. As regards the award procedure for public service concessions and concessions for the economic use of general or other goods not established by this law, it may be regulated by specific rules governing certain types of concessions, but subject to the mandatory application of the basic principles of this law. Why this way? Because individual resolute ministries have requested that individual concessions be excluded from this law, but nevertheless the fundamental principles of this law will have to be respected by all. The award procedure for public works concessions is implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, and that is the same newspaper, because in principle watching the Public Procurement Act separate from the Law on concessions or the Law on Public Private Partnership would not at least be good, because it is so intertwined that all three of these laws must be viewed practically as one whole. However, only these two laws are in the power of the Ministry of Economy, and the Law on concessions and management of the Ministry of Finance for the simple reason that the Ministry of Economy is that it regulates certain many economic activities, it would be illogical for them to control and grant concessions for these activities, and at the end of the concession is the income of the state budget and then logically both the concession register and the Law on concessions to be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. In this regard, we have further and qualityly improved the Law on concessions in relation to first reading, and accordingly we have set the thresholds for the application of the Public Procurement Act to public works concessions. This means that the award procedure for public works concessions is appropriate to the lists established by public procurement, whereby the award procedure for public works concessions whose value of the contract is equal to or lower than or equal to 36 million kuna, excluding value added tax, is applied to the relevant provisions on small-value purchases, and the award procedure for public works concessions whose total value is agreed is greater than EUR 36 million without value added tax, the corresponding provisions governing public procurement. This is how the concession procedure is implemented requires the existence of uniform legal protection in order to ensure the transparency of the system and the principles of equal competition. This was achieved by referring to the proper application of the Public Procurement Act, where single legal protection was secured by the State Commission for Public Procurement Procedures. Such legal protection creates full functionality and the scope of a transparent and efficient concession system in the Republic of Croatia, defines the legal protection provided for in this... law, the defined legal protection under this law will apply to specific sectoral laws and sublaws, which fully achieves the objectives that will improve the concession system in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, this law makes clear the obligation of the concession provider, the duty to take all legal actions to ensure and implement the provisions of the concession agreement. This is an even greater impact on the increase in the collection of concession revenue as well as on the orderly implementation of other obligations prescribed by the concession agreement, which is part of the concession policy for which the Ministry of Finance will be in charge. The concession policy also provides for further improvement of the existing reporting system in the context of the concession register. After the adoption of the law in the Croatian Parliament, there will be an additional quality improvement of the register in terms of reporting and handling of all donors. It is important to note that the concession register will be made available to the public via the Internet station of the Ministry of Finance, and public data are considered to be data such as the name of the concession, the type of concession, the concession provider, the period on which the concession is granted, and the data on the application of the coefficients to be charged for the concession fee. I know this provision will probably cause a debate as to why we didn't put the amount of concession. It's a simple amount of concession. It's just business information that if the agreed other party doesn't agree, you can't basically publish it. But if we've been saying in all this that the public procurement process, if it's public procurement, then it's clear that they're set in a tender of criteria by which someone, by whom someone is most favourable, and I don't think it's that important anymore, but I'm saying it's something that I can honestly tell you what we at the Ministry of Finance were thinking about whether it would be good or not to put it in? But I am also saying that by agreeing with Brussels, we have decided on this combination but may offer some other solution, and I say since the issue is delicately we are ready and we are ready to discuss it because I say, I repeat, this is a law which we are all here in the assembly, and after we adopt this law, the next harmonisation of specific legal and sublegal acts with the new Law on concessions, which will create a single legal framework that will allow the achievement of those objectives that I have set out in the introduction, but I say the final objective of this Law on concessions should be to protect the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia and to make clear to everyone if they use the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia then it must certainly feel the budget of the units of local self-government and budget, because we cannot burden the unit of local self-government to worry about the protection of the environment, to worry about this, to worry about someone who is at the same time exploiting something in the area of the local administration and the local administration. So ladies and gentlemen, the first reading has raised many questions and provided certain answers. I sincerely hope that in this debate we will also come up with some other quality solutions during the second reading. I offered you one misunderstanding to discuss, so we'll see what the debate will be like then we'll make a final solution to what we do with that provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18554	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18555	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, before I refer to the final proposal for a concession law, I would like to emphasise the importance of the adoption of this law and remind myself that the existing Law on concessions was passed in 1992, that a number of special laws and sublegal acts containing different rules on concessions, which in practice means that we do not have uniform concession procedures and that we do not have a single legal protection of participants in the concession procedure. We know that the existing law does not contain a definition of concession, nor does it contain different types of concessions provided for in the Directives of the acquis of the European Community, such as: the concession for the provision of public services or the concession for the provision of public works. In addition, national legislation is harmonised with the acquis of the European Union in a section relating to the greater public award of concessions, equality in competition, efficiency and other. In order to address the lack of an existing concession system, new legal solutions are primarily aimed at increasing transparency, ensuring equal competition, uniform legal protection, strengthening efficiency in the supervisory and income collection process. It is proposed that the Ministry of Finance be the body responsible for coordinating concession policy in the Republic of Croatia, such as the usual practice in the countries of the European Union. The Ministry of Finance also manages the concession register as a unique electronic record of all concession contracts in the Republic of Croatia. The new law defines three types of concessions: the concession for public works, the concession for public services and the concession for the economic use of the general or other goods. The basic principles and elements of the award of concessions shall be laid down as the procedures for the award of concessions of a particular type are regulated by a special law, with due regard to the principle of the Law on concessions. Legal protection is uniquely arranged through the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for all types of concessions. Finally, the Final Proposal of the Law on concessions differs in some solutions to the draft law. I can express my satisfaction with the fact that the proposer adopted the proposals and opinions presented in the first reading and installed them in the Final Bill. The proposal was adopted to extend the final proposal in Article 4 which regulates areas and activities in which a concession can be given to tourism as well. The exemption from the application of this law has been extended to other areas such as agricultural land concessions and gambling concessions, radio and television concessions. The provisions governing the assessment of the value of the concession have been added. Legal protection issues in the concession procedure shall be regulated in such a way as to refer to the application of the rules governing public procurement. In view of the fact that proposals and opinions on the draft law have been adopted and incorporated into the final draft law, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the Law on concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18556	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18557	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here's before the opening little joke. Our Minister Shuker is really on his way this week. We had a good one, though we could say a little late proposal and I'm talking about guaranteed, guaranteed savings roles, and we can say this concession law is well done and it's a special quality in being mostly all the comments, suggestions and thinking that were made in, after first reading, included in the final version of the Law on concessions, which is not very often the case. Namely, the final proposal of the Law on concessions as another EU law whose adoption is foreseen by the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis provided for in the second quarter of the European Union is part of those laws that we have put into line. But it is crucial and I fully support the Minister's closing sentence, which is the protection of Croatia's natural resources. In line with the discussion carried out during the first reading of this law, the Proposer accepted all the proposals and opinions he had put into the final draft of the law, which is, in any case, commendable, and that is why I am taking the opportunity to commend the promoter. The entry into force of this Treaty on concessions with it will also need to comply with other laws which determine the granting of certain types of concessions, as settled in Article 48, and all of this must be completed by 1.6.2009., with the question whether it is necessary to resolve it in the manner in which Article 48 is solved, because this is not a common practice and I think that this can be resolved either by transitional or final provisions or, that is... Done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Great! In addition to these words, however, one principled, technical issue is raised and concerns the planning and dynamics of the adoption of other laws set out in the legislative harmonisation plan for this year. For example, concessions for the use of water and public water goods are regulated by the provisions of the Water Law, and the adoption of the new Water Act is foreseen in the last quarter of this year. The question is whether because of the Law on concessions and the deadline for harmonisation, we will transfer the new Water Act into a legislative harmonisation plan for 2009. The same issue concerns other laws which need to comply with the concession provisions normally foreseen in the 2008 plan. Otherwise, only the adoption of the new Law on concessions has been established by the plan for 2006, so it failed in 2007, and nothing happened, and because of the very importance of the Law on concessions, it is good to talk about it today at the end of 2008, respecting and partially respecting the reasoning that we heard from the Minister in the opening argument. The fact is clear that the concessions have definitely been determined and it is good because it is a very important law with which the other two laws we are discussing and which we have on the agenda at this session of the Parliament, which are the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, and the Final Proposal for a Law on Public-private Partnership form a sort of whole and are closely linked and at the same time harmonize. I must say that in our legislative practice, it is rare that laws are thus harmonised and we are convinced of the positive effects both in the award of concessions and in the model of public-private partnership, and particularly in the need for transparency of the procurement process. As regards specific provisions, I am taking the opportunity to particularly highlight Article 6(4), which are excluded concessions on agricultural land. Such a solution is certainly justified, and due to the status of agricultural land as a national treasure due to large areas of state-owned land which are not adequately available and precisely because of the operationality of the concession procedure should be regulated by sectoral law. Finally, the government proposes a good and operational solution, which is that the government will adopt a list of laws and regulations that should be in line with the provisions of this law in concessions with deadlines not longer than 1 June 2009, which will be published in the "National Journals". This is certainly important for the successful implementation of this law, and we want to believe that the government, the government, will abide by the deadline, and we also believe that this model of government will be applied to other legislative proposals that we will discuss and decide in the Croatian Parliament. We in the Croatian People's Party will support this Final Bill, but at the same time I use the opportunity to ask a question that is not for Minister Shuker, but it is definitely for the Government, whether this law will solve both the exploitation of gravel and all the things that are present. I'm sure he'll get rid of it, and now the exploitation of the gravel has been legally solved. However, whether inspection services will do their part of the work we know are not doing. It's an extremely large example. We believe that we are also going in this direction in a positive direction, especially after last week's appointment of two new ministers in the Croatian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18558	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18559	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. We in the SDP are aware, and I believe everyone here and all the public that concessions as well as public procurement are one of the most critical economic activities given the corruption risk. It is precisely about the high degree of corruption risk that the public has a certain opinion on how concessions are given and who gets them. Such an opinion, that is, one perception and opinion, should in any case not be ignored, belittled, and reduced in any way. However, here are all government documents, since we know what our situation is on this issue and how it is a stumbling block for Croatia's entry into the European Union in view of the corruption index, that Croatia, with an index of 4.4, has taken 62 seats on a 180-nation scale, that it even made shifts compared to last year. But she hasn't received a passing grade yet. The government, too, is aware of this problem, has also made a special plan to tackle corruption with the action plan as a special topic in relation to the judiciary itself with the action plan and in judicial reform. So here are the public procurements in this document to combat corruption, the government's document and action plan are just the adoption of the concession law as a roof law that would prescribe concession procedures, so the government is particularly apostrophetic as a strong anti-corruption measure together with the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, and the aim, the government says, is to improve the legal and institutional framework for effective and systematic control of corruption. Therefore, this Final Proposal of the Law on concessions is not only a technical nature as it is the procedure for giving and obtaining concessions and concluding a concession contract, but above all, every norm should be seen precisely in the light of the light of this which has come to this end as the Government has outlined it in the Action Plan to combat corruption. Is that so, here's something later. In fact, it is true that the minister on several occasions pointed out that this was one problem, that this area was in fact an abandoned area for years, and that was indeed the case. The postponement of payment before all these privileged priority concessions is something that has been tolerated for years. The minister also boasted on several occasions, and it is true that significant revenues are precisely due to increased control, and above all through the control and control system, through the register significantly increased revenues in the state budget precisely from this base and that there are around now about 6, over 6,000 concession contracts. However, we at the SDP club certainly support and support it, and that is something to really commend. However, the stricter charge did not include better control, which we consider to be a major handicap, did not include a timely adjustment of the amount of concession fees given the rise in energy and energy prices, in general raw materials, in those contracts where it was possible to do so. However, let me refer on behalf of the SDP Club to certain provisions, given that this is the final proposal of the Law on concessions to the provision, first of all on the register of concessions which deserves special attention because exactly the register of concessions, here is what we just had the opportunity to hear from the opening letter that only registration and the right records have already led to better charges and without forced collection. So, very quickly, users understand what it is and realize whether the promoter has serious intentions. Now, here in this provision of Article 44, there is no saying that this register is public. Whenever it comes to registers, then we have in law, in certain laws an explicit norm whether the register is public or not. We have also heard here, given that the minister is aware of these challenges which have been, i.e. on the serious remarks that the SDP club and the Legislative Committee will consider seriously. However, if there really is a serious intention to achieve this plan to combat corruption, then what is there to doubt about? We also heard an explanation on the board that it can be resolved by a regulation, that the Minister of Finance can resolve it in his regulation based on Article 44 and adopt it. However, the practice so far has shown, we know that it is existing the complaint to the administrative court because, on the issue of the public, the question of concession fees, the concessionaries has been denied the answer, with the reason that the minister has passed the rule under which it is a secret. It can't be a secret, it can't be left to any minister at all because it's in the interest that the system works not because it's this or that minister, and given his will or his poorer will to give or deny information, it's in the interest of the system to be effective in the everyday personnel combination, so it was even SDP's minister. You see, concessions aren't our creation, they're not the creation of socialism or invention, they date back to the Napoleonic times. He's been legaled for another 1804 years in the famous Civilian's. In 1813 he was nominated because there were certain abuses and all of the Western countries of those times did not come to mind, they do not have a problem with this. Not because people are weirder and weirder, but they don't have the opportunity to behave differently. There is no novelty of a contract that is at all deviating from a contract based on public procurement, let alone exceeding the multiple basic amount that was the subject of the contract. Also in concessions because we here are obliged to submit to the absolute European directive of 2004 which speaks and which accent gives us precisely on transparency, which also speaks of concessions and public procurements according to which exploitation of natural resources and for public works must be incorporated public procurement rules, i.e. open tenders, i.e. through public competition. Therefore, in order for these things not to happen, for the minister to decide by his will, it must be as a public principle incorporated in the law. After all, it also imposes common sense and sound logic because it is available here with property owned by all citizens. That's public good. We're not interested here in whether or not it's working here between private persons, it's here with the property that serves all citizens. According to the public authorities of any level, whether the local self-government unit or state is available to them, it is very much in the public's interest to know. To defend that it is enough that these public competitions and public competitions, i.e. tenders are publicly announced, so please be well satisfied with the public. No, because an ordinary citizen is not interested in obtaining a concession and does not have to follow the competition, but he is very interested in checking at any time which public good that serves public use is the authority, public authority, whether the units of local self-government or state have given to someone in a concession, under which conditions and at what time. So because we now have an unbearable situation, that it's a public conversation, that no one can verify whether it's true or not, that little isles are given in a concession for a long year at a very lewd price. So it's a more favourable position than the state giving him that, because then as the owner, he has a certain ownership not only of rights but also of duty, and to pay taxes on it and to take care of it as owner. Getting someone good on a long term with a favourable fee is better than becoming a owner and more rewarding. Therefore, the public wants and has the right to know, because, ultimately, this fee is also a concession revenue from the state budget, public revenue. That is why we in the SDP Club have also made an amendment to this provision in Article 44, saying that precisely because of the government's announcement that and as the prime minister said it was enough, we want to trust him, to see if this amendment will also be adopted. We see here in the concession plan and in the concession policy a whole series of things that open the question and the question is whether they are in an adequate way and rescheduling the existing situation. It is not easy to define by law, but first of all, the question is whether there is a serious will to make certain and adequate policies happen. I also turn here on this occasion on behalf of the SDP Club, and by adopting the Law on Maritime Goods and Ports, we have allowed recipients or concessionaries who have received a preferential priority concession, so the one on which no public, public tender has been called, with very favourable conditions. In law, we made it possible for this concessionary to give such a concession to each other, so we avoid seeing that chain again and it is very well seen as being followed through other laws. Here I call for it to be corrected in this law in order to be more transparent and to make such things and abuses impossible. What we also want to draw attention to is under the contract of Article 30. In this way and through these million amounts without a public tender, of course it is said here with one fence, without the prior consent of the concessionr. Well, that concessionr, that body of the public authority, is under public opinion, and it is under suspicion. Therefore, the applicant cannot be fenced here by this being the case only with the agreement of the concession provider. This cannot be the case, in the case of million amounts, that primary beneficiary of the concession gave the other person a concession for such works. It can only be subject to public procurement again. I think it will be so transparent and clean and I don't see any reason why such an amendment that we have sent here to the Croatian Parliament will be accepted, and all for transparency, because of a good law which basically we don't have any objections to other provisions, but I think it's in vain all unless these amendments are respected. We are familiar, I believe, and all of you, the objections that our businessmen have about these issues that are quite familiar with this, are getting answers that this is about capillary corruption, but it is dangerous if the vital organs were healthy, but I'm afraid it's a lot of serious stuff, that it's about venous, arterial, and don't give God and the aorta, about that kind of corruption, and that's not what it would be, that it would really be contained. Here again I suggest that the Proposer seriously consider these amendments that are truly in the world to get a good law and really figure out, not only to figure out, but also to be the country that is as free as this adjective and these monsters of corruption that is beyond all evils and all that is often distributed then on the road with bloodshed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18560	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18561	Your Honor, I'd like to correct my colleague's representative in the part where it's about the secrecy of the data, but she's referring to the register. In fact, nowhere in today's Final Proposal for the Law on concessions that we are discussing is secrecy mentioned. Certainly if it is not regulated by reading this regulation from it, the data from the register shall be made public. Of course, it is logical for the minister to make his regulation a closer arrangement of the register. But nothing in any word mentions the secrecy of the records. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18562	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18563	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. Most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have spoken the word concessions associated with an area of economic activity in which no positive environment and orderly business relations prevail. In most citizens, the spoken word concessions is seen as a phenomenon that points us to an area where all this manipulation of legislation, the area in which the gray economy was rooted, avoids doing business on the business of a good economic operator and on an area where the soil is fertile to flourish corruption. I would not dare to say and to find that the negative public concept of concessions is unfounded and that there is no reason and evidence of life that has contributed to negative perception. This is also likely to contribute to the fact that the existing Croatian legislative framework governing the award of concessions is composed of the Law on concessions of 1992 and around 40 sectoral rules containing different concession rules in certain areas. The existing legislative framework governing the area of concessions is extended and, in that sense, the level of change in the legislative framework is needed in order to increase transparency by applying primarily a single concession procedure and to implement uniform legal protection for all participants in the concession procedure. The proposed Law on concessions aims to create an effective legislative framework in the area of concessions and to achieve positive effects on the Croatian economy. In order to remove the perceived shortages of the concession system, the change in the existing legal framework focuses primarily on increasing transparency of the concession system and ensuring equal competition in single legal protection and strengthening efficiency in the control and collection of concession fees and reducing the occurrence of the gray zone in the concession system. The concession law strengthens the position and gives greater importance to the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for keeping the concession register, but at the same time clearly prescribes the obligation of the concession provider and the obligation to take all legal actions in order to ensure the enforcement of the provisions of the concession agreement. This aims to achieve an even greater efficiency in collecting concession fees, as well as to ensure the orderly enforcement of other obligations prescribed by the concession agreement. The provisions governing the obligations of the provider with regard to even more effective supervision and certain new concession laws will be harmonised in the specific rules governing concessions... the application of the Law on concessions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The new Law on concessions provides a basic framework and a starting point for the implementation of a transparent concession procedure for public service concessions and concessions for the economic use of the common good or other good, which is specifically developed and upgraded through specific law. I am convinced that the new legal framework will greatly contribute to the change of public perception of concessions, as this law represents a significant step in terms of the development of this economic policy institute, but also this law has an important impact on the reduction of the grey economy, and it is now fulfilling the provisions guaranteeing transparency, non-discrimination, and respect for all postulates of competition. In order to contribute as much as possible to the quality of the concession law, I have also addressed four amendments to Article 6 of the Law, paragraph 2, Article 30(1), Article 30(5) and Article 31. I did not submit a proposal for an amendment to make the concession register public, because I do, although I appreciate my colleague Anticevic and her legal knowledge, I do, and I agree that it is unacceptable for the concession register to be classified, but I believe that if the saying is not written and stated that the register is secret that it implies that it is public. Therefore, and for the sake of all this, I will vote in favour of the adoption of the proposed Law on concessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18564	Thank you. Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go. Correction. I didn't see it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18565	Here I appreciate my colleague, both in his own and in his own knowledge, the area of economics, and I say it quite openly. But also his, and I believe in these good intentions he said, but unfortunately that's not true. It's not true that it turns out that it can't happen differently, because we had, I remember the situation and now, here's the minister will agree that he passed a sublegal act and is therefore in the Administrative Court where, where he has declared it secret, they amount to concession amounts in certain cases. And in order for that not to happen, in order not to be generally at the will of any minister, it must be written in the law that the register is and precisely with which subjects, i.e. public, on the donor, on the recipient, on the amount, on the subject and on the length and on how these state obligations are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18566	Thank you. Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18567	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with my associate, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to join the debaters so far in connection with this problem that is very important to us. I would even agree there, even if we rarely agree with my colleague Antičević, primarily for reasons because this is a law that is encouraging for our economy and, in general, because this is the first time that we are actually trying to solve certain problems. It is clear that, and here we agree that the current law was missing, so changes are being made and complemented, and that means that this government is making sure that it actually tries to solve the problem with one roof law. So also with this concession law, because it was clearly pointed out earlier, it was long ago passed, it was 1992. He also had about 40 sectoral regulations. I think it is indeed so, and it was again necessary to comply with European legislation, but also with the 2004 directives, so it is clear that there are certain shortcomings and it should be recognised. But in any case, what we can see from it and its visibility is clear that it is encouraging and that it has all the positive qualities in it. In this respect, it should be said that, in fact, in these individual regulations that existed so far, whether or not public tenders or public procurement for the award of concessions are listed, it is clear that there are certain and we can conclude the elements of visibility in this fragmented legislative framework. However, whether it is necessary to pass one roof law. Thus, this fragmentation was likely also a particular problem that needed to be resolved. However, it is a sign of something that should be said primarily stems from the objective of adopting the Law on concessions is whether, and that is, in the first place, the foundation of an effective, precisely legislative framework that we have so far said was therefore fragmented in the area of this concession and it should be achieved a positive but encouraging effect on the Croatian economy, but also the protection of all the natural resources that the Republic of Croatia has. I think that's what the minister said earlier, perhaps one of the most valuable and significant objectives of this law. The effectiveness of the operation of the concession system will also be increased clearly by the procedure in the implementation itself, and then by monitoring the collection of compensation for the giving of opinions on the elaborates, on the award of concessions. Especially here I would have said this fee is very important and the efficiency of the fee itself is whether which perhaps so far in some of its parts and was therefore not appropriate, but should be said that it has been in the last few years, I can confirm it as mayor was extremely effective. So it could also be felt in the budgets of local self-government units, and I believe it also at the state level. I think one of the important objectives is certainly to increase the effect as I said earlier on collecting compensation for these concessions, and this will be clearly possible primarily to ensure an equal competition, a single legal protection which was also spoken of by the minister, but also effective supervision. I would particularly point out the benefits of one sign of this final proposal in the fact that in this second reading it is possible to give concessions in the field of tourism which was not in the first reading. One of the great newspapers that has been discussed here is that it refers to the secrecy of the documents on the phasing out of concessions. It is proposed to apply the provisions of the regulations governing public procurement, which is exactly what it is intended to achieve, so while it was originally proposed to regulate the rules governing the secrecy of data. So, this is what I can confirm is that just before the correction of the allegations that Ms. Ingrid Anticevic Marinović was not right, or I didn't quite understand what her colleague wanted to say, so if I misunderstood myself in advance, I apologize. Finally, I would like to say that all other amendments, not to list them here now, as in the rest and final proposal of the law provide for one visibility of the system of the Law on concessions, and this law represents a significant step in terms of the development of the Institute of Economic Policy and we in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will discuss it. So we have the consent to give him full support.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18568	It's Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18569	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. This law, the meaning of this law, shows the naked fact that the old law of '92. the year contained only a dozen articles while we can now talk about almost five-fold beings and matter that has been processed, and it also shows in some way the legal void that appears in this time and up to today. As a result, this law is welcome and its quality shows that it could fully meet expectations in that activity through which the largest number of economic activities will be carried out in the future. At the same time, the law has worked very well and distinguished from other legal transactions, i.e. the Institute, and we can now say that we know what the concession is in relation to the lease, which is the concession in relation to the lease, which is the concession in relation to the right of construction. Therefore, these are the qualities of this law, and they have been improved by these latest changes since the first reading, which would particularly highlight the part relating to agricultural land, since it is obvious that agricultural land requires its own management system, i.e. to be used, or in a concession. Also significant news is an assessment of the value of the concession that could finally, in the decision-making process, also in those who sit in the bodies that decide to show what ratio or size and value we are talking about, because often in the exploitation of gravel, for example. asked the question in view of the small surface hole given in the concession and the large number of trucks coming out, so now the assessment itself requires a slightly more quality approach when defining which is essentially the subject of the concession. If we look at these solutions which have defined these specific areas, such as energy, water economy, transport, postal services, therefore apply to them in full this law and applies regardless of the value of the Public Procurement Act, and that is definitely good. However, this law has settled a number of questions, and it is now up to us to pay particular attention to those fifty laws that we will each pass individually and with which we will regulate certain areas. For example, the Gas Act or the Energy Act have so far set up a concession system in a way that actually raised the question of what would be the subject of public procurement. What's the competition in? According to the law, it has practically turned out, since it is regulated activities, so those in which agencies approve the price, then the price cannot be the subject of public procurement. Then, the amount of the fee is set in the law in percentage, it can not be the subject of competition to say so, the price of construction can also not be, because it is the service of distribution that must be given later in the construction of the system in competition, in the additional competition and again cannot be the subject of the competition in the concession competition and then it turns out that the only element that can be the deadline of construction or potential coal. So it is up to all of us in the future to pay close attention to the basic law to comply with this law and to achieve this quality in individual laws and to raise it to a higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18570	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18571	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. Here I would somehow continue to present Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović, saying that this text of the law in the second reading was put into a lot of effort and that the legislator really made an effort to review the debate in the Croatian Parliament, and that I also had one significant remark on the working bodies of the Parliament, which I am going to apostrophe here. The reference is, of course, to article 44, which refers to this famous register where there is actually a commitment to who should be attached to the law, which is to keep the register public. I must say that I am saddened by the fact that, on the one hand, the minister says that the law is full of transparency and it is transparent in that really substantiating part, which is the process of making decisions and decisions in relation to concessions. That's right. But then why the milk we milked is just so easy to spill because of Article 44. If we have made a strategy to combat corruption, an action plan with a strategy to combat corruption, a decision on the National Council to monitor the implementation of the national corruption control programme, a decision to set up a monitoring committee to implement measures to combat corruption, and if I only say one sentence from those documents, which says, "Corruption prevention is the key to the success of every anti-corruption policy," then I really don't understand why the bill promoter is afraid that the concession register is public. Because the arguments I've heard on the working bodies aren't free of charge, it's a business secret. No matter what business, let's see what this business is about... Well, that's what you're gonna say. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it's about that register being public and that and all of them... that I am not repeating what colleague Anticevic-Marinović was saying, but it should be written in this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, I trust you to make it as transparent as you said on the Internet tomorrow, but that's your word that can stop somewhere from writing it to realisation for a hundred reasons. Now we won't talk about all the reasons that can be. So I'm in favour of making it quite clear and loud that the register is public. Because you know that we're actually hiding again, that is, on all this documentation that we have, which I've listed as key documents and about anti-corruption, I don't know what we're hiding in that norm to make it so to say almost secret document. And that the law doesn't say it's a public document. I don't see, so I don't see any point in fighting corruption if we, as a legislative body, agree to such compromises. I can't agree to this compromise as a parliamentary representative because I know what's behind it. In addition, there is a possibility of direct co-operation between state structures and individuals in state structures with those businessmen, so to call them, who are prone to corruption. I dare say that. So let's just remove it all very simply to make it a register, to be public. And let's write it in the law. And that's why this amendment of ours seems to me to be the third most important thing in a row. And so let us not, at last, create a picture of a law that is so important, which is present in a transparent way in a second reading where really the comments and opinions of the first reading are covered. This is the final time for this legislative process to be contained as best as possible in order to be a better result and these are ours, these are our laws. And another thing I wanted to say through article 48 is the same mirror that's not good. But as the Legislative Committee has submitted this amendment, I believe that the legislator will accept it, and this is the next one. Therefore, in Article 48 of the Treaty on the The final proposal of the law states that it will be adopted within the time limit of certain other laws, specific laws and sublaws, within a period of time after the adoption of this law and its entry into force. And... It also says that the government will pass a list of laws and sublegal acts to be passed and actually says if such a law were to be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 48, then, would mean that it was a commitment to the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one can give the Parliament a duty but I am a Parliament. We know that well. And I believe the proposer will accept that. I think it's a good way to make the law as good as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18572	Thank you. And finally Mr. Agent Danesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18573	Mr President, Mr Minister with my associate, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to take part in this debate, and I absolutely support the introduction to highlight the adoption of this law, but I would like to say a few words about the concession on agricultural land and the related content of Article 6(4), (5), and in this context, I also see in this context the conclusion of the Committee on Agriculture. It is mentioned in Article 6 that these provisions of Chapter 3 do not apply to agricultural land other than Article 17. I must stress the problem that plagues my area, our area below that the large areas have gone into concession, arable surfaces and that I am convinced that they have not been satisfied or complied with by these provisions that are highlighted here in Article 17. Mr. Minister mentioned contracts from the former state and this is about contracts from the early 1990s where several thousand hectares went into the concession and these, these moments that were highlighted in Article 17, were not respected. That's what I'm saying because there are a few hundred acres left, and where we're on this trail right now, we're struggling to realize how to do it according to these concepts, but unfortunately, in the Agricultural Land Act in Article 56, it was there, it's pointed out who has priority in the concession. And there was this famous so-called. A priority concession that I believe was in a certain way and an injustice, and it is also pointed out here: "The legal person of the former agricultural land user who became the property of the state on condition that he owns the land." I'd appreciate the content of that if it were. However, we know that this must have been done at that time in those years. There's probably no turning back in that respect either, but I thought we'd point to this problem because the base of the remaining surfaces that we're trying to realize right now, we're doing something. Furthermore, I would like to say a few words about Article 28 when it comes to concession fees. Here in point 2, it says: "The concession fee can be agreed as a fixed, equal amount or as a variable amount and so on. I think it should point out that it is and that it is a very important moment in the duration of the concession. In particular, this area that I'm talking about a dozen years ago has been contracted a concession for a hectare of 330 kuna, which is now one-fifth of the market value and which by contract takes another 20 and a few years to last. I don't think that's right, and that's exactly the problem I'm pointing to that's what's bothering us. And finally get it over with. I do not know whether it is legal, whether it is legally possible to conclude in Article 46 concerning the concession procedures initiated before the entry into force of this law, and the judicial and other proceedings conducted in respect of them will be completed in accordance with the provisions of the rules which were in force. Is it legally possible that it will be completed under this regulation when it is adopted. I don't know. I'm not a lawyer, but something would help. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18574	Thank you very much. And the final minister of Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18575	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You see the closing word I came with more paper than at first. So let me just have something about this public. I am at the beginning of my presentation and you will see this said that several amendments have come and that we will adopt some of these amendments. After that, in my presentation, I literally said that the concession register would be made available to the public through the Ministry of Finance's website, so if there is more emphasis, I don't know what should be. The second thing, the applicable Regulation on the establishment and management of the ‘National Journal’ concession register 160 of 2004 provides for a clear availability of data from the concession register. Therefore, the availability of data is regulated in such a way as to enable the use of concession data by concession providers and concession users, and in today's explanation I have made it clear what will be available. And I said that the only thing that's questionable about that is the amount, and that's the business relationship thing, and we can't get into some things because it's regulated by some other laws. So, the register will be available because it is regulated by the regulation, and also, if necessary, that amendment will be adopted and there will be no problems at all. Because I said, I think it's in everyone's best interest for this law to be enforceable, to be clear and transparent, to finally make order in this area. In the end, the debate came from both the opposition and the ruling coalition MPs. So if you really don't think this is enough that I've just read. No problem, I'll pass the amendment and let it be said that I've adopted one SDP amendment. Yeah. As far as Mrs Anticevic is concerned, she made an objection to Article 30 of the compromise. This is all defined by Directive 200, 418, Chapter Three, Article 60. Unfortunately, we do not have much space here, because if we are going to go differently then the European Commission will not accept the law. So we don't have much space here and we did it that way. As for Mr. Shaw, he was talking about article 27. However, the concession fee. Article 28(3) clearly states that the level of the concession fee is determined by the level of activity, the duration of the concession, the business risk, the expected profits, the equipment and the area of the general or public goods. I think that sentence is practically all defined, no. No one's in the interest of calling a concession if it's not going to be worth it to someone, because no one's going to answer it alive. But I don't want to owe you any more. I'd like to thank everyone for the debate. I think this second reading helped us to make a good law when I say so let's put it on the ground and when our inspection services start to apply it then we'll see how good it really is. Because if the inspection services on the ground can't implement this law then we'll have to react, because that's the only way to seduce the order because we have to protect the water, we have to protect the maritime well-being, we have to protect all the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia, and eventually tomorrow when we call an international competition, when we can't do some things now, we'll give it to someone, we won't give it to someone. We must have an instrument based on which we will control how someone uses the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia. Here, once again, thank you all for the debate. I think we'll bring a good text of the law. But I repeat, if his application shows any inadequacy to oversee the services of the Ministry of Finance so the State Inspectorate or the mining inspectorate will not be able to apply it on the ground. I'm sure we'll react without delay and fix it in that operational area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18576	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide tomorrow. 15., Final proposal of the Law on concessions, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 129. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go. Legislative Committee on Article 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18578	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18579	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2., Legislative Committee on Article 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18580	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18581	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3rd, Agent Emil Tomljanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18582	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18583	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 4th, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18584	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18585	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 5, Dr. Goran Maric's representative?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18586	The government does not accept because it is mostly consumed in Amendment 3. [[Intruder: I withdraw the amendment.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18587	The amendment has been withdrawn. 6th, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18588	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18589	It's becoming an integral part. Seven, the SDP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18590	The government does not accept this amendment because it is consumed in the amendment of the Committee on Law, so it is practically accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18591	You're pulling back? If it's consummated, are you pulling it? Thank you very much, withdrawn. 8. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18592	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18593	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 9, the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18594	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18595	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 10th Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18596	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18597	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 11th Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18598	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18599	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 12, Agent Goran Maric?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18600	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18601	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 13, Agent Goran Maric?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18602	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18603	Accepts?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18605	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 14, the SDP Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18606	The Government cannot accept this area as governed by Directive 204/18, Chapter 3 of paragraph 60, so that if it accepted this amendment, then the amendment would not get a green light in Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18607	Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18608	In fact, we propose to delete Article 30, which regulates the negotiation of concessions, and we do not think that it would be possible without the competition of those who won the concession, to give the concession in the subconcession, so we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18609	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15, Agent Goran Maric?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18610	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18611	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 16th, Agent Neven Mimica?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18612	The government does not accept because it proposes that this amendment regulate specific conditions of access to beach and maritime good, which is regulated by a special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18613	There's no deputy president, Mimica. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18614	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18615	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 18, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18616	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18617	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 19th, Club of Representatives of the SDP on Article 54?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18618	The Government shall accept and propose to add paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 to which it is registered, so Article 3 would define that the concession register guarantees the availability of public data and 4 public data are in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article the name of the concession provider, the origin number of the concession provider, the name of the concession user, the date of the start of the concession, the date of expiry of the concession, the name of the concession. the type of concession, the location of the concession and the applicable coefficient for the account of the concession fee. I think we've achieved the team in practice then.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18619	Here you are, Madam Representative Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18620	Since the intensity of the amendment was to make the register public, so to be available and with this supplement we accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18621	Thank you. The amendment was accepted in a statement formulating the minister. Okay. 20, Legislative Committee on Article 48?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18622	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18623	It's becoming an integral part. And 21, the Legislative Committee on Article 49?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18624	The government accepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18625	It's becoming an integral part. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on concessions. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 111 votes in favour and one abstention, have been accepted by the proposal for a concession law along with the amendments adopted. We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 125. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary, Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18627	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In the second reading, the Government sent the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act to the Parliament and I use this opportunity in the introduction to really thank everyone for a constructive debate, proposals to improve this text, so the final bill. I thank all the committee presidents and their members who have conducted the debate of this law and, as will be seen in the follow-up debate, have contributed to making this law even better and even better. In the introduction, let me just draw attention to the application of the current law, the applicable law on public procurement. These are always interesting figures. It's still about public funds. It is the funds of our taxpayers, so let me give a very short overview of the public procurement that is viewed in our e-mail advertiser through 28952 of which only in the open procedure that we are talking about concluded contracts by type of procedure only departing in the open procedure 5994, in a limited 169 limited due to the urgency of 5, a negotiating procedure with a previous publication of 89, without prior publication of 1533, a negotiating procedure due to the urgency of 13, a service listed in Appendix 2b. 135 and undefined value according to data set 512. Therefore, by applying the applicable Public Obligation Act, the largest share in the total contracted waste on an open procedure which speaks of contracting entities which, in one largest percentage, 70.29% are prone to open procedure when, of course, they have all the conditions and all the possibilities, and indeed rarely, below 1% use a limited procedure or negotiation procedure with previous publication, while the negotiation procedure without prior publication, i.e. I will paraphrasise, a direct contract is present only with 27%. As far as monetary value is concerned, a short display based on the 10 largest buyers in the 100% purchase value based on the available statistical data leads to the City of Zagreb with 75.48%, while the next county, so the City of Zagreb as a county, the next county only with 5.09% of Split-Dalmatia, and all others are represented in the share of public procurement with 4.28%. So by the size of the value in the supply itself and the county, the City of Zagreb comes first. The 10th largest customer is Virovitica-Podravska County. As regards the review of the share in the total purchase value, all cities on the list of public procurement taxpayers participate with 47, 48%, of which without the City of Zagreb, the City of Sisak is the first largest client with 11.25% share of the total public procurement value, while in the last place of the 10 largest orderers Samobor city with 2.14%. Overall, by the end of September this year, the total value of the funds on the basis of the contracts was around 13 billion kuna. What is signifiable and significant, since the previous debate was also led in a tone of fight against corruption, transparency, the public, openness of the procedure, I would say that the current law, and certainly the amendments and additions will contribute to this very public, transparency because, as we could see from the statistics, indeed the highest percentage goes exclusively to the open process. Given that we are here today to present a second reading of the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, I would only briefly mention what differences are made in relation to the text of the law you received in the first reading. Meanwhile, by carrying out a really wide public debate, a debate with the bidders, with the European Commission, with the OECD, with SIGMA, indeed with all interested parties, which we included in this law in our initiative the procedures for granting concessions for public works which is also the subject of the directive, one of the directives that we have already transposed into the Public Procurement Act, and in this part we have fully taken over the provisions of that Directive. We deleted exceptions from the application of the Public Procurement Act with a view to a hasty prevention of damage. For the sake of a request from the European Commission, that provision has been transferred from the exemption and has been included in the category of implementation of the negotiation procedure without prior publication, because, according to the interpretation of the European Commission and the interpretation of the European Court of Justice, it is not an exemption, but a category which, without prior publication, a negotiation procedure can be met in terms of needs and deadlines. Public procurement contracts classified as security under the regulations of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. for the purpose of the implementation of information security, will be concluded in accordance with the public procurement regulation for the purposes of defence and security which we will, of course, bring forward in the next period, and following the dynamics of the adoption of the directive that will regulate this particular topic at European Union level, which is currently in the draft phase. We also introduced an anti-corruption clause into the public procurement system. There we have received very broad support because this provision we believe that we will prevent, that we will make it impossible for the leaders of the contracting authorities to enter into contracts in which they have any management rights and thus bring themselves into doubt that they are actually "adjusting" jobs. By also binding on the Budget Law and in parallel with the financial plan, we have introduced a category of procurement plans. The procurement plan is a good instrument. The procurement plan is to be scrapped from the financial plan based on the Budget Act. We do not want to add administrative burden to the public procurement laws, but we simply ask that the financial plan which will be done by means of the Budget Law is simply to reduce the funds that are exclusively intended for the purchase of goods, works and services. Based on the new Budget Law, we have made interventions related to the procurement procedure for multi-annual contracts. The contracting authority may not initiate them in its regular operation unless there is a planned means for the total duration of the contract. At the request of the bidders themselves, therefore, the factors on our market have been returned, i.e. we gave up a more liberal approach to categorizing evidence of ability in every procurement process. Let me remind you, in our first reading, we suggested that it was only evidence of impunity, but the bidders were looking for a stricter regime in order to enable a fair match and in some way more discipline among themselves when they appeared in the competitions, and we accepted it. The period of rest based on compliance with the new Legal Protection Directive has been raised from 12 to 15 days. In this way, we have also fully adopted the European Union Directive on legal protection only in that part. The legal protection that will be governed by the amendments and additions of the Public Procurement Act will be unique for both concessions and public-private partnerships. In the second reading, we worked on the provisions on simpler reporting and, of course, on further professionalisation of public procurement, I remind you of a client who is mostly conducting procedures equal to or above 300 or 500 thousand kuna for works. What we want to achieve is a compulsory education for people who are employed in purchasers. This education would last 24 months, i.e. the licence would last 24 months since the right to be a very live category should be renewed, i.e. the knowledge of it should be renewed, and in that sense all the contracting authorities, i.e. their employees, will have to renew their knowledge of public procurement after 2 years. We think that's good for at least two reasons. On the one hand, if we encourage people who are employed in jobs who spend other people's money, we keep them in a way that is constantly on guard, constantly educated, we want them to follow the paper, or novels in the procurement system legislation. On the other hand, we avoid such professionalization on the one hand a human factor, that one human error, and on the other hand ignorance is often used as an element of bypassing the Public Procurement Act, which, of course, we will all agree that it is not good. Once again I owe thanks to everyone who helped us to improve the text of the law for second reading during the period between first reading and second reading. In this respect, the debate was held on both the Committee on Law and the Committee on Local and Regional, or Regional Self-Government. The amendments are very high-quality, the amendments are absolutely contributing to the further quality of this final draft law, and in this sense the Government will accept that all amendments proposed by the Committee on Law and amendments proposed by the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government with the difference that the adoption of amendments proposed by the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government is consummating the amendment proposed by the Committee on Lawmaking so that we can agree on the actual identity of the amendments. There's a small nomotechnical difference so in this case we'd give the Committee on Local Self-Government a head start. Thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18628	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18629	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Ms. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Immediately at the beginning of this debate I wish to tell me a few sentences about the public procurement in general and the importance of its quality and transparent arrangement in any society... The Republic of Croatia and emphasise that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act for two basic reasons. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] First, for the purpose of full harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union in the field of public procurement, public-private partnership and concessions for public works. Secondly, due to the final establishment of a comprehensive, uniform and transparent public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia that should contribute to the simplification of procedures, the rationalisation of the state's business and the reduction of the total costs of public procurement. In this case, public procurement constitutes a procedure for contracting authorities in this case of public rights persons, i.e. state, local and regional self-government units and institutions and funds and other legal persons with public authority which are mostly financed from the budget, i.e. they are obliged to apply it when selecting an economic operator to perform certain works, to deliver goods or to provide services in the public interest. It is important to stress that the procurement would be public. It must respect certain principles that allow all economic operators, hence the level playing field for bidders and offer them the same chances on the public procurement market. In particular, the role of the state as an extremely important economic factor that has a significant impact on not only the overall economic activity in the Republic of Croatia but also on society as a whole should be highlighted. I will point out only one piece of information that best confirms it, and it speaks about how the value of the total public procurement in the Republic of Croatia during 2007 was 44.4 billion kuna or 16.15% gross domestic product, noting that the share of public procurement in gross domestic product was increased by 4.38% compared to 2006. This information therefore also speaks of increasing competitiveness through the growth of national investment at the international level and the impact of public procurement on overall economic growth. This is why it is very important to establish a quality public procurement system that will fully respect the principle of freedom of movement of goods and services, the principle of competition, the principle of equality and the prohibition of discrimination, the principle of efficiency and the principle of transparency. Such a system must have built-in anti-corruption mechanisms that will bribe and corruption, but also other unwanted occurrences of consciousness to the minimum or completely eliminate them. We from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community consider it necessary in particular to point out that a good public procurement system, which, apart from the Law on Public Procurement, should act as a concession law and the Law on Public-private Partnership already being or will be discussed during this session of the Croatian Parliament, with the emphasis of the Public Procurement System Office, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and the State Audition represents, on the one hand, a guarantee of the success of the fight against bribery and corruption and the abuse of state property management, and, on the other hand, contributes to raising the level of trust of the public and the economy towards state institutions and its politicians. Unfortunately, a good part of our public right with the public procurement procedures connects the dishonest actions of individuals and corruption, not rarely much more than that is indeed the case. Respected colleagues and colleagues should not be surprised, it is not often to be surprised by the totally distorted perception of individuals or groups of certain phenomena in society, because we ourselves are fairly guilty of why so. Why should this be especially highlighted? So every day we testify here and in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of the subject being discussed and whether there are arguments or not about many of the claims made that out of a large number of us, fortunately it is a minority, they can hear mostly critical tones and attempts to show our public that nothing is wrong in this country. So one disastrous picture of our society. Unfortunately, in this way we send a bad message not only to our public but also to the entire international community and create a generally negative perception of Croatian politicians but also to Croatian society at all. We are aware from the Croatian Democratic Community that the state of our society is not ideal and that the problems still need to be solved, but we are also aware that we are going in the right direction, that today it is much better than it was four years ago, that four years ago it was much better than eight years ago, as we are sure that in four years it will certainly be much better than today. That is why I call upon you dear colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately few of us in the hall, to solve problems together through a constructive and critical debate that will result in the same constructive proposals for the benefit of all, and to bring a lot more light into our discussions, that is to say, to pay more attention to those good movements in our society, because I am convinced that such examples and such cases are much more than those of others. Of course, we must not ignore the negative and bad phenomena that unfortunately still exist in our society and which we must fight by finding effective mechanisms that would make them less and less and less to their complete elimination. Because of the above mentioned today, we are also discussing the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, which we are convinced will contribute to the achievement of the objectives outlined, i.e. to simplifying the public procurement process acceptable to users, its rationalisation, flexibility and efficiency and its full transparency. The legal arrangement of the area of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia took place for the first time in 1995. We can therefore freely say that the Republic of Croatia is a country with a short tradition of public procurement arrangements. The first law governing the area was adopted in 1997, and its adoption was a significant step towards the practice that was in the past. Of course, the system was further advanced in the coming years, resulting in the adoption of the Law on Public Procurement of 2001, however, despite a significant step forward it continued to have a number of its shortcomings and gaps and therefore could not fully respond to the demand for time, either on national or international terms. For all this, a brand new Public Procurement Act was adopted in 2007, so today the current law that came into force at the beginning of this year and which is in its principal part in line with the acquis of the European Union, however not entirely because it does not contain all the new provisions of European law. Also in the current application of the Public Procurement Act, some of its provisions have been found to be significantly stricter than the provisions of the European Directives, and there are certain ambiguities that have created difficulties in the application of certain institutions of the applicable law. The Croatian Democratic Community's club particularly wishes to praise the maintenance of a large number of educational seminars, workshops and round tables organised in its own organisation or directorship by the Ministry of Public Procurement Administration of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, as well as in cooperation with other interested institutions. On the one hand, because education in a public procurement system with a built-in acquis of the European Union is extremely important in preparing our economies for the European market and for the market of other developed countries. On the other hand, because during that education as well as through the daily consultation of the office with the help of the so-called so-called ‘. A number of legitimate objections and proposals which went in the direction of removing the observed irregularities and improving the public procurement system have succeeded in gathering a large number of reasoned remarks and proposals. We also consider it important to mention the fact that, in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, and the Regulation on the Internal Design of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the competence of the Government Office for Public Procurement has been assumed by the Public Procurement System of the Ministry of Economy. Therefore, by respecting all the above, the reasons why amendments and additions to the applicable Public Procurement Act are proposed can be reduced to three basics. First, for the purpose of further harmonising the area of public procurement with the acquis of the European Union. Secondly, in order to remove certain irregularities, ambiguities and difficulties in the application of the law, as well as its improvement and improvement. Thirdly, in order to comply with other applicable regulations of the Republic of Croatia. The final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, and following the debate on the draft law in the first reading, respected the comments and recommendations of certain parliamentary committees, and certain changes were made which were not essential, but purely legal and nomotechnical in nature. Therefore, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, including the amendments and additions contained in the first reading proposal, brings significant newspapers and additional quality to this public procurement system. I'm not going to repeat what the secretary of state has already said, but I think on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I only have to mention two newspapers that I think are of paramount importance. First, an anti-corruption provision is introduced describing cases where the contracting authority is not allowed to conclude public procurement contracts with certain economic operators. We think it's really necessary and it's a very good provision. In particular, we would like to commend the introduction of a special training obligation in the field of public procurement for the employees of the contracting authorities, so the application of public administration in case of purchases whose estimated value exceeds the prescribed thresholds of 300, 500 thousand kuna, respectively. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community expresses its belief that the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act will contribute to the improvement of the public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia and to the creation of conditions for the full opening of the public procurement market to free competition, and, together with the Law on Public Private Partnership and the Law on concessions, will fully regulate the public procurement system, thereby having a positive impact on the overall business investment climate in the Republic of Croatia. That is why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will fully support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act as it did after the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18630	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18631	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President, for the honor of the Secretary of State. And this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act should be seen in the light of our determination and the taking of anti-corruption measures. First of all, I think it's much more important than some of the standards that are both technical and requiring the procedure of this kind of matter. Especially because we have to be aware that this area that is so perceived in public, but not only that it is, but it is everywhere in the world, but also in our country, given that the state and everywhere is the highest contracting authority, and those most expensive jobs, then it is precisely possible for corruption to appear here the biggest. In fact, we must be aware that corruption has not been the one since yesterday that is today's corruption. That the transition is obvious from that corruption that is inherent to a chronic phenomenon and that is why, especially here, when passing such a law, in this sense should be very careful. Namely, how to get jobs. Is this the kind of area, and can this law really in all those segments answer something that happens in public? We also saw this from the annual report and the question of these complaints is not adequate, it cannot give an adequate answer because it is a very small number of complaints, which is symptomatic. How dare people not make complaints at all, and we must together answer that question. In situations where prima facie is clear that everything is legal at first sight, that the job has been given to the one who is the cheapest, so is nobody here, not in this assembly, but in the public, and even in those above all the bodies of persecution, repression, does it not fall into their eyes that, as a rule, as co-operatives and as real performers, those who have made more expensive offers appear. That must be alarming, red light that something's wrong. It's not an acidic phenomenon, it's random, but it happens almost as a rule. And as a rule, they don't even make complaints. How do you answer that question? I know it's not easy to make one norm and in a law like this that can prevent it, but in any case here is one common political will that doesn't happen. It can work very well on this. We remember just before the minister said and there is no doubt about it, and he should be believed that the very will of the state to make an adequate register that in that register is all the information that has been paid, since when, has already prompted some of them to immediately pay. So they realized the state wasn't joking. How is it possible that the underlying contract which has passed the office takes place, such changes which are multiple and these additional works exceed the basic contract multiple. And everybody knows that. And it's a public secret, not really a public secret, but a fact that no one even questions. At the end of the day, why and when the state audit has repeatedly pointed out from year to year, as regards the central authorities, so on the operations of local self-government units. And it needs to be contained. But I'm saying it's not just our wetlands, it's our people's imagination, and that's how they behave, and the authorities are doing it, and the individual segments that decide to do it are on their hands. So everywhere people would behave like that, but let's just say one France has an administrative contract, where it's impossible, so all the additional contracts I'm asking for additional needs, can come up just because work and unpredictable sometimes, additional jobs that couldn't be predicted, extra jobs, extra competitions. So where's the right to automatically get the right to such extra jobs? That state can react. I don't think that's settled well yet, but if this were to be resolved, it wouldn't happen in that first case of mine again that those who made more expensive offers were performers. Then they should be called in. And the question also arises, so who are they that are getting jobs. But it's not just a matter of one resistor. That's a question here, let's say, for our office in the fight against money laundering. How is it possible that in some kind of competition someone buys something, and there's no ficus in their office, and the office has somewhere in its one-bedroom apartment? So obviously he didn't buy it for himself, that he didn't buy it by his means. What means did he buy it? So this is one broad matter that can be well covered. We can't be the country that declared itself a money launderer. And through these through public procurements, where they're coming back washed up their money they want to throw away legal flows. And it's a public secret, I mean, it's not just us, it's just that this dirty money, because it's huge money, it wants to go into real business. And what are the real jobs? Most of the time, these are natures and the most common construction jobs. So these are issues that are not only issues of this law, but issues, above all, of absolute determination that we want a country free from corruption, that all political parties, but to see them then, in parallel with this law, need to be complemented in these action measures in order to ensure that the effectiveness of this law is right. And that we here, above all in the Croatian Parliament as a whole, show contempt for the corrupt but also for those who encourage such behaviour. So, I say these kinds of jobs are very risky, very sensitive and if the state solves, if the government in both this proposal and these additional measures, solve these issues that alarm the public, which those businessmen who know much better about what is going on in these jobs than we who, with more or less and just hint, would then, in this way, the market and the right market freedom of the market and competition would be fairer. I say we give serious attention to this so that we can't easily go over this fact that the bodies of persecution on this must be manifested, call these persons, they're not actually occurrences of what's going on here. And it is up to us here that these extra jobs that not only exceed, should not exceed once, several times, but should not at all be significant, but should not at all deviate from that original price, because they already come to the disadvantage of that competitor who lost his job, and certainly it was just more favourable, or more expensive for one real price of such necessary contracts. I think there's still room for this final bill to see what to do, and this measure would be a good and safe signal for those to behave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18632	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18633	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, esteemed co-workers and colleagues. I've already talked about the negative public perception of the concession category, and when it comes to public procurement, I think it's a negative experience even more pronounced. Due to the fact that the process of changing prejudices and public perceptions is a long-term process, I think it will take a lot of time and even more changes in habits and common techniques in public procurement procedures to break the issue of the majority of public opinion that the area of public procurement is expressed corruption, that the area of public procurement is favourable to increasing crime and that public procurement is an area where individual interests have overcome general interests. But established techniques and common techniques in public procurement procedures can most effectively be changed through changes in the legal framework. This proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act is a positive step forward in order to remove the observed shortcomings in the existing legal framework, and I am sure that this will... contribute to the reduction of space for possible manipulation and non-transparentity, which is of paramount importance because the annual value of public procurement amounts to more than 16% of the total gross domestic product, and the example for 2007 was more than 44 billion kuna. It is important to point out that these proposed amendments to the Public Procurement Act have been introduced in the public procurement system and anti-corruption clauses describing cases where the contracting authority is not allowed to enter public procurement contracts with a particular economic operator. These amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act are becoming simpler and more acceptable to users, offering more free access and introducing greater adaptability to standard procedures, which will lead to a reduction in costs. In view of the above, I consider the amendment and the addition of the Public Procurement Act a major positive step forward and a future moderator in the technology of public procurement procedures and, of course, I will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18634	Thank you. And finally Secretary of State Tamara Obradović Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18635	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, it's hard to have a closing word after I understand really well the exceptional support of these amendments and the additions of the law, and there I would join the debate that led to the corruption that arises, the corruption in which we speculate, the others are more aware of it, the third active actors are all one grey zone. You can't get rid of this law. In any case, it is not possible to resolve this law by this law to set up a good framework, and, of course, the judiciary and the repressive bodies must do theirs but indeed what and how to do their part of the work if the party holding the damaged in a particular tender, in a particular competition for these or those reasons, does not actually want to complain to the State Commission. And in this segment absolutely should work to raise awareness, to encourage all these companies that are daily called in public procurement management. We receive indeed a lot of calls from people daily, companies who want to draw attention to their cases of refusing to go to the competition but still do not have enough courage or time or money or simply the nerves to actually declare a complaint to the state commission that will quickly resolve them and decide their rights. So in this segment, what the government will continue to work on in cooperation with NGOs and respond to every call for round tables, respond to any call for counseling is to raise awareness and education in the public procurement system, education on legal protection, on any rights that are damaged or who is considered a damaged party may have in that segment. We have a great consultation on public procurement on 30.10 and, of course, I am making a broad invitation for all interested to join us when we will represent novels in the public procurement system through practical workshops. It's just two views about the colluding. We can't ban colluding. We can regulate it. In this segment we have regulated it a bit more stringent and amendments and additions to the laws are heading for the client to specify by name and last name his obligors or must specify the scope, type and value of the works if they are to be concluded by the subcontractor. On the other hand the annexes yes, indeed the annexes are a major problem but the annexes will be subjected to a legal negotiation procedure. So there's no direct deal on the annex of the main contract. It will be a negotiation procedure without prior publication and, of course, only if it is a percentage of additional works of 25%. Since it is an example of the European Union, I can only say that we are actually halfway stricter because in the European Union, the negotiator can do up to 50% of the additional work. Here's so much in the final word and I actually want to say one big thank you from one side to you for your support and discussion, and on the other hand really to one valuable team of people who work day by day to improve the public procurement system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18636	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're about to interrupt the session. We continue at 9:30 a.m. with a agenda point Final draft of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Contact with Children. Good night, everyone. 16. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement was the second reading, P.Z.E. No. 125. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Law. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the proposed amendments. Madam Secretary of State Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go, ma'am. First, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government Amendments to Article 102.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18638	Thank you, Mr. President. The government accepts this amendment since we are in correlation with the Legislative Committee, which has submitted an identical amendment only with small modifications. We would accept this amendment in a way that follows the word "year" puts the point, the rest is deleted because the rest of the normative content is then consumed by the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18639	Do we agree? Yeah. So in terms of what you said, it's accepted and becomes an integral part of the proposal. Legislative Committee on Articles 2 and 20
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18640	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18641	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 4
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18642	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18643	It's becoming an integral part. 3rd to Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18644	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18645	And fourth to Articles 11, 12, 23, 34, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18646	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18647	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And the fifth on Article 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18648	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18649	It's becoming an integral part. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18650	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18651	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. And the seventh on Article 47.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18652	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18653	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 61 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18654	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18655	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18656	The government also accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18657	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 10th to Article 88.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18658	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18659	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And the eleventh on Article 93.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18660	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18661	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 12th, the article is added, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18662	The government accepts, of course, that according to the Legislative Committee, one technical error was made, in fact, to Article 85a.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18663	Thank you. So it's being accepted? Sustained. [[Intruder: It is accepted in this sense.]] Thank you very much. And finally the 13th on Article 102.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18664	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-16-0.u18665	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the bill. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 107 votes for and 4 abstentions, have been adopted by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wish everyone a good morning. Yesterday in Zagreb, a prominent representative died at the Croatian Parliament of Ministers in the Government of National Unity Mr. Muhamed Zulic. From the very beginning, our struggle for independence has been in the front lines. He was also captured during the war. He suffered a lot, but was constantly involved and stood out in the fight for independence and independence both as a representative and as a minister in the government of national unity. I call upon you to honor our former colleague and minister, Mr. Muhammad Zulic, for a moment of silence. - A minute of silence - May eternal praise be to him and glory! We're moving on to the agenda, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. - Final draft law confirming the Convention on Contact with Children, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 172. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms. Dorica Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
