ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20559	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Amendments to the 2005 Nature Protection Act have been made to the amendments for several reasons. In the first instance, the reasons for further harmonisation with the provisions of the Council of Europe on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora with legal arrangements, trade in that area and the directive of the same Council on the conservation of natural habitats and wild fauna and flora, etc. The habitat directive. However, it may have been expected that we would bring these changes before. But since it is a very strong active legislative activity large and the government in particular of this high body we have always tried to bring in all the changes that are related to the Nature Act and many laws to enter this new law, new amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act. But that's how it's always tied to each other, and we couldn't bring it anywhere at the beginning of this year, but now we're bringing it before this tall body is just the end of the year. But that is also why this law is now in line with the provisions of the Law on Environmental Protection, Violation Law, the Law on Forests, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Law on concessions and the Law on Academic and Professional Names and the Academy Class. Therefore, given the above and the proposal for this law in amendments to the Nature Protection Act, the following basic issues are settled. In the first row, the transfer of competences for the conduct of operations and the protection of the nature of the Office of State Administration in the counties is arranged to administrative authorities in the counties, which is one significant contribution to further decentralisation of nature protection jobs and is also a harmonisation with the Environmental Protection Act. The activities of nature protection will be carried out by workers who have done so far, and these are mainly those in charge of environmental protection activities that work partly and in nature protection jobs. In the budget of the Ministry of Culture, funds shall be provided for the education of employees, the administrative bodies of the counties at the location of the implementation of the aquis. The process of carrying out an assessment of the acceptability of the requirements and plans and programmes in areas which are part of the ecological network of the Republic of Croatia is further regulated. The provisions of the Habitats Directive are hereby transposed precisely, and the procedures are in line with the relevant provisions of the Environmental Protection Act and the applicable implementing rules. The Regulation on environmental impact assessment and the Strategic Impact Assessment Regulation of the Plan and Programmes on the Environment also introduces the concept of ecologically significant areas of the European Union NATURA 2000, a basic prerequisite for the adoption of regulations declaring the proposal for NATURA 2000 area, which is the Republic of Croatia until the date of accession, should be submitted to the European Commission as its contribution to the European network of economic significant areas. The way and the adoption of the Programme for the Protection of Forest Ecosystems for Protected Areas in which the economic use of natural goods is not permitted under the Forest Law is established. That's for... the existing legal obligation to develop a programme for the protection of forest and ecological systems only limits those protected areas in which the management and use of natural resources is prohibited. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are primarily national parks and strict reservations. Further harmonisation of the provisions relating to the protection of wildlife in the part of the law governing restrictions in matters of strictly protected wildlife, thus achieving an even greater degree of compliance with the provisions of the Habitats Directive, introduces the concept of an action plan as a document that prescribes measures to protect strictly protected wildlife, and measures to protect their habitats, which is in line with European practice already existing practice with us, within us. The obligation to compensate for the damage caused by protected animals is limited to those caused by the animals in the strict protection category. The time limit for reporting damage is reduced to three days in the case of damage caused by large beasts in domestic animals, and in the first place it is a wolf in our neighborhoods. The provisions on concessions are harmonised with the new Law on concessions. More fully, cross-border traffic and trade in protected wildlife are regulated and sanctions are established as prescribed by the Council Regulation on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora, the legal arrangement of trade in that area. This obligation has been established since the bilateral screening for Chapter 27. – The environment, held in Brussels in May 2006, when the European Commission also warned of this lack in our Nature Protection Act. Infringement provisions shall be harmonised with material and procedural provisions, as well as with criminal sanctions of the Criminal Code. In view of the fact that the Infringement Act has put out of force all sanctions prescribed by the Rules of Procedure on the Internal Order of National Parks and Nature Parks, it was necessary to give authority to the supervisory services to sanction some illegal activities that had been resolved by the Rules of Procedure. In general, taking into account previous experience in law enforcement, it improves expressions for both the sake of insurance and the ease and better conduct of it. Thus, among other things, repairs and expressions are related to the provisions governing the investigation of protected natural values and speleological objects in the Republic of Croatia, and the exportation from the Republic of Croatia for scientific purposes of wild property, and parts thereof that are not protected of natural value within the meaning of this law. There is no need for additional funds to be implemented, they are provided in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia in the division of the Ministry of Culture, funds for nature protection from which the funds for the implementation of the law will be further provided, in part of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Therefore, Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like more if you'll allow it one more time. I'd like to apologize to the High House for leaving. Today on the occasion of the year, the Planet of the Land is registered 60 years ago for the entry of the first geological monument in Croatia in Kušnakov and Rupnica in Papuk is also registered 60 years ago, so I promised to attend the ceremony there. He's going to be the secretary of state and he's going to follow up on the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20560	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20561	Thank you, Your Honor. Honored representatives and representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of the presentation on the Amendment Act and the Supplements to the Nature Protection Act on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say that the club of representatives and representatives of the SDP will support this bill. Before I begin to point out the content of this bill, I would like to stress that in the SDP club, we do not consider that there was a reasonable reason to insist on this very urgent procedure for the adoption of this law, which has shortened the entire parliamentary procedure since the entry of this law into the process from the hill of debate on the home environmental protection committee, the debate at the plenary session and the vote itself for only three days. Although State Secretary Šikic explained that since early summer, the draft law has waited for some other laws to be passed and brought into line with them in order to enter the parliamentary procedure, it still does not justify such bitterness in the procedure itself, which has significantly prevented the quality of the preparation of MPs and MPs and clubs to discuss this extremely important legal document. We do not really understand at the SDP club why this bill could not have been discussed during the next week and what would have been lost. The proposer of this proposal, which is the Ministry of Culture in the introductory part of the introduction, explains that the current Nature Protection Act is amended by this proposal in order to comply with the Council's regulation on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora and, in the part of the regulation of trade in that area, the Council Directive on the conservation of natural habitats and wild flora and fauna and the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Law on Forests, the Criminal Law, the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees, the Law on concessions and the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. And most of what was proposed by this document is indeed so, but in the SDP club, we believe that the great lack of this legislative proposal is what the promoter has failed to do, change these more creative and rational arrangements. This primarily refers to the reform of the current system of management of protected areas of nature mainly national parks and nature parks, which is inefficient, wasteful and old-fashioned. In the SDP, we believe that Croatia needs a small but effective administration, as well as in the area of management of protected areas of nature. We believe that at a time when the economic crisis and recession rocked our society, the promoter had to take advantage of an opportunity to amend the Nature Protection Act in order to regulate this area and achieve a more efficient and rational administration. In addition to the introduction of a single system of management of protected areas, this would mean, of course, the overall reform of the state administration in charge of protecting the conservation of natural values, and in a way that would bring together, under one roof, concern for space, nature and the environment, forests, waters, seas and mineral raw materials, whose sole and exclusive tasks would be to manage administrative tasks while professional affairs would be carried out by agencies, institutions and public institutions. Among other things, we have warned about this when adopting a government programme. In this way, the same competence would be uniformly, directly and efficiently managed by natural resources, or resources, and would control their use and negative and destructive impacts. The aspect of administrative and administrative affairs would be avoided by existing overlaps and uncertainty. We also believe that inspection tasks relating to the management of natural resources should be allocated to a special inspection body, e.g. The Agency for the Inspection of Natural Values or in an existing State Inspectorate. In the SDP club, we believe it is necessary to separate the public function of management of natural goods from the market and commercial activities of public institutions. Management of natural goods involves coordinating and directing of various activities, as well as economic activities, in order to reduce damage to natural goods and to ensure their general useful functions and long-term use. Therefore, wherever possible, it is necessary to separate public functions and business management of natural goods from their management activities, i.e. commercial use. Such services need to be united and rounded and created by one agency in order to bring business standards and methods of work together, for example. introduce a project corporate business organisation of public institutions, unifying joint services, e.g. 19 national parks and nature parks have 19 accounts, supply of goods and services, marketing planning, sales, award of concessions, education, financing and information. It is necessary to strengthen the powers of such an agency for the management of natural resources. It is necessary to organise existing public institutions as administrative establishments or branches of a state agency without legal or financial personality and to carry out a regional approach to decentralisation with regional agencies. The following comment by the SDP club on this draft law refers to Article 27 paragraph (c) which allows for the implementation of non-organic projects within the framework of the ecological network with an argument of the prevailing social or economic interest, regardless of what is behind such liberalisation trying to hide the public's cover. We also believe that Article 15 should be amended in a way that the ecologically significant area of "EU Natura 2000" as well as the way in which this area is managed is determined by the Council of Law, not by the Government of the Regulation as provided for in this proposal. It is not clear to us why Article 25 in general allows for the introduction of foreign wild varieties into nature because the examples of the introduction of allohthon species into nature have largely ended badly for the balance of eco-systems. In view of the fact that one of the reasons for the adoption of this law and its compliance with the provisions of the Criminal Code were to be brought into line with the following provisions. For example, in Article 175(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the authority of the supervisors shall be prescribed to charge the fine, and this is a series of criminal sanctions which have been abolished by law, that is, in Article 5(1) of the Criminal Code. The fine is mentioned in a few other places. In Article 187(3) and Article 187(1) and (3) of the Law. In Article 175(1), the power of the supervisor to issue an infringement order is prescribed, however, in accordance with the provisions of Article 229 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Infringement law stating the powers to issue an infringement order is not listed by legal persons with public authority, therefore supervisors cannot have that authority accordingly. According to the old Law of Infringements, the criminal order was filed by public institutions, and the supervisors were assembling them, and according to the new Criminal Law, the public institution is not among the authorities to issue an infringement order, so we believe that this item should be deleted. Unfortunately, the same goes for a new institute called the so-called Institute. a mandatory infringement order which may be issued by legal persons with public authority, but only for infringements prescribed by the decision of the unit of local self-government. Article 175(5) of the Law, in order to comply with Article 245. Infringement law, the same should be amended in a way that reads: to charge fines, damages or costs incurred by offenders at the scene of the offence, with the confirmation of compliance with the assumptions prescribed by a special law, and the level of punishment, the manner of determining the infringement. In Article 175(1) but not Article 9, the law should stipulate that the right and obligation of the supervisor is to initiate the submission of an indictment proposal which is in accordance with Article 109. Infringement law shall be brought forward by a public institution, and shall not file a criminal application, as those provisions do not comply with the terminology of the Criminal Code, which in Article 160. Infringement law prescribes the way in which a misdemeanor proceedings are initiated, initiated by the indictment of the authorised prosecutor. In accordance with the above, the provisions of Article 175(2) should be deleted. The Nature Protection Act. In Article 198(1), point (a) is The law on the protection of the nature of the distributions of Article 70a taxively lists actions prohibited in all categories of protected areas other than natural monuments. However, in the infringement provisions of Article 198 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the The laws on the protection of nature, sanctions exist only for banned actions in part of these categories, not for all. For example. no strict reservation, special reservation and significant landscapes indicated in the disposition. It actually means that when someone commits one of the banned actions in the area of a special reservation, there are all the traits of a violation, but there are no sanctions for it because the Nature Protection Act does not prescribe them, so there are no violations. And that's what we need to coordinate with. At the end of this presentation on behalf of the SDP club, we believe that the following would be much better if we adopted this bill by regular rather than by emergency procedure despite its European premise, as this would give the proposer the opportunity to improve this bill to a significant extent until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20562	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20563	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act, with the final proposal of the law, which was sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for the adoption of the law by an urgent procedure. In addition to the legislative proposal, a statement on its compliance with the acquis of the European Union and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe has been submitted. I begin my presentation with the quote by the academics Mohorovici: "The unprecedented array of pearls of natural beauty is gathered as a great decorative laurel crown on the favorite restricted part of our dear old planet Earth, which we call Our beautiful homeland of Croatia.". In addition to natural beauty, the Republic of Croatia stands out with a great wealth of plant, fungi and animal properties, minerals, raw materials and fossils, as well as the diversity of ecological systems and views. Almost 12% of land territory national parks, nature parks, strict special reserves, park woods, monuments of park architecture and significant landscapes are protected. Or about 7% of the total surface area of the Republic of Croatia. It is these protected areas that form the backbone of overall protection and the key points of the ecological network that represent the sanctuary and reservoirs of biodiversity. Although the 2005 Nature Protection Act is in line with the Convention on Biodiversity, Directives, Regulations and Protocols of the European Union, during the screening, the European Commission has recommended further amendments to cross-border transport and trade in protected species, wild flora and fauna, as well as the conservation of natural habitats and wild fauna and flora. Meanwhile, laws on forests, spatial planning and construction have been passed, environmental protection, misdemeanor law and concession law and the Law on local and regional self-government. That is exactly what the basic reasons for the amendments and additions of the law so far are. The proposal for this law addresses the following issues. It's a transfer of competence to perform nature protection tasks from the state administration's offices in the county, to administrative bodies in the county. It's a alignment with the Environmental Protection Act. This issue is regulated by Article 64. An additional and precise implementation process, evaluation of the acceptability of procedures and plans and programmes in areas that are part of the ecological network of Croatia is being arranged. A further way to develop and adopt a programme for the protection of forest environmental systems for protected areas in which the economic use of natural resources is not permitted under the Forest Act is established. Furthermore, provisions relating to the protection of wildlife are further harmonised. I'll just mention that in the Republic of Croatia about 38 thousand wild varieties are known for now, there are many more. The issue of research into protected natural values from telelogical objects is further regulated. Furthermore, the obligation to compensate for the damage caused by protected animals is limited to those caused by the animals in the strict protection category. The provisions with concessions with the new Law on concessions are further harmonised, but also more fully and quality-regulated cross-border traffic and trade in protected wild property and impose sanctions on them. Infringement provisions are also harmonised with material and procedural provisions and with the infringements of the Law on Violation which is new and which is certainly good and gives greater authority and inspectors and we expect better results in this area. Over the past seven years, I have been talking about the period of nature protection in the Republic of Croatia has become an integral activity that has made use of natural goods work and has largely managed to bring it into line with sustainable development. The biggest shift was made in the area of legislation that enabled active protection of landscapes, classification and mapping of habitats, movements in the protection of wildlife, but also established a network of ecologically significant areas for the preservation of habitat types and endangered species in the Republic of Croatia, which account for 47% of the land and 39% of the sea part of the Republic of Croatia. Some measures, such as the Regulation on the regulation and protection of the coastal area, have produced significant results and significantly protected space and reduced impact and tourism without stopping development. One of the most significant measures that has produced additional results in the protection. But regardless of the significant shift in legislation and the strengthening of institutions in this segment, a large space is open to improving the effective implementation of laws in practice, but also in the system of education and information to the public, but also in compliance with all the rules of law and institutions. The Republic of Croatia has a great wealth in diversity and a very high degree of value and conservation of biodiversity and landscape diversity. It is precisely this that represents the enormous development potential of the Republic of Croatia, and quality protection and management of this wealth is a obligation for both these and the next generations to feel the beauty of this God-given space behind them. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this bill, because it also contributes to keeping this beautiful space of beautiful ours, quotes: "A timeless series of pearls of natural beauty". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20564	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20565	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Croatian legislation contains a number of environmental protection regulations, but the basic regulations that give general provisions, determine the powers and impose penalties are the Environmental Protection Act, the Air Protection Act and the Waste Act. The Environmental Protection Act and the Waste Act are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environment, Spatial Planning and Construction, and the implementation of the Nature Protection Act is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture. We must admit that it is also very unusual for us Assembly representatives, and I trust the representatives of the Ministry of Culture that we are discussing environmental protection issues with them when we have the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and that regulation of these issues within the Ministry of Culture is not a European practice. It really doesn't make sense, and we think that jurisdiction and concern about nature protection should be moved to the Ministry of Environmental Protection where there are two strategic laws left in the field of environmental protection. According to the promoter's explanation, most of these amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act are based on recommendations from the European Commission in the negotiating process for accession to the European Union, and the Croatian People's Party club will also support them for logical and justified changes. It is known that there are 9 categories of protected areas in Croatia. The National Park and Nature Park is declared by the Croatian Parliament, the strict and special reserve is declared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the regional park has a significant landscape, a forest park, a monument of nature and a monument of park architecture is declared by the County Assembly. But if these protected areas are located in two or more counties, then they are also declared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has a significant wealth and diversity of flora and fauna. There are 65 different habitats in which a significant number of strictly protected and protected species live. 123 birds, 20 mammals, 14 amphibians and reptiles, 44 fish, 31 non-Kristian and 20 plants. The protected areas of Croatia cover about 11.3% of the land area of Croatia and about 3.4% of the sea area, i.e. about 8.5% of the total area of the Republic of Croatia. Here we have to mention one bad fact, which is that the data given by the state on the areas of protected areas differs from document to document. The data I have now presented are from the Strategy and Action Plan to protect the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia, which we will also believe in at this session of the Parliament. However, the report on the state of nature and nature protection in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2000 to 2007 states that 7.3% of the land and 1.20% of the territorial sea are protected, or a total of 7.1% of the total surface area of the Republic of Croatia. I ask you to analyse these contradictory data and tell us which ones are true, because behind these percentages lies a thousand kilometers of difference in documents. Most of our area is protected in the category of nature parks, 11 and 8 national parks. We have 2 more strict reserves, 79 special reservations, 116 monuments of nature, 78 significant landscapes, 35 park woods and 121 monuments of park architecture. A total of 450 protected areas of nature. However, it should be said that some protected areas have lost values over time to protect them, and for a part of the area at the time of the border declaration, they are not sufficiently defined, so the revision of the registers of protected natural values will result in the abolition of protection, change of borders or categories of protected areas. Certainly by reducing the area of protected areas. We have received the recent Law on the reduction of the area of Nature Park "Medvednica". Of course, industrial development and tourism and housing will affect the reduction of protected areas. The important issue of life and work in protected areas of Croatia is the possibility of building and other procedures in them, i.e. assessing the acceptability of these procedures for the ecological network. Unlike the existing laws of 2005, these amendments also change the competence for the approval of planned procedures in protected areas, so the procedure is conducted by the Ministry of Culture for National Parks, Nature Parks, Special Reserves and Cultural Monuments, and in areas of lower category of protection, so regional park, significant landscape, park forest and monument of park architecture, the procedure will be conducted by the administrative bodies of the county. However, even after the procedure has been carried out at the county level, the ministry must give confirmation of the acceptability of procedures in the protected area. The promoter argues that the transfer of competences to perform nature protection tasks from the state administration's offices to administrative authorities in the counties is a significant contribution to the decentralisation of nature protection jobs. Well said, but there will certainly be a big problem in protecting nature's funding of all this. The adoption of a Regulation declaring an ecological network covering more than 40% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia in institutions managing protected natural values has given them new governance obligations. The problem is particularly highlighted by a large number of newly established county institutions, which are the result of lowering certain jobs to regional levels, which are neither human, and particularly financially capable of taking on such a large job and responsibility. The Countys should be the ones providing funding for the area managed by their institutions, and for some of them it will certainly be huge costs that those in this model, without co-financing from the state budget, are not able to provide and carry out properly. But it would also be good if the main or only problem in nature protection was a formal procedure for obtaining a permit in the space of protected areas or this unknown about financing or co-financing that is nothing new to us. The biggest problem is illegal digging and building right where nature is protected by law. The problem of the exploitation of various mineral raw materials is particularly of stone, sand, gravel and brick clay. It primarily refers to surface spears. It's a problem we haven't shown or proved that we know or want to deal with. Despite all the good that it represents and brings about the exploitation of mineral raw materials perceptions and public activity is generally negative thanks to the media presentation of negative actions and the consequences of illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials, primarily through quarrys and river gravel. Of course, the sensitivity to this topic is particularly shared by many associations for the protection of nature and the environment and an increasingly large part of the community. We will all agree that illegal quarryes and seines endanger the lives, health and property of people, destroy nature and archaeological sites, and cause huge damage to the state budget or local community, which would pay those fees for use that quarryes and gravel are legal. According to state data in protected areas in Croatia Žumberak, Plitvice Lakes, Velebit, Medvednica, Učka, Papuk, Kalnik, Risnjak, Mljet is registered 92 surface baths of stone and are active about ten percent more. Among the registered spears is a large number of abandoned quarrys for which no legal successor has been established and some of them are owned by Croatian forests, which is terrible because they are the guardians of our nature. Most of them are not registered as an exploitation field within the meaning of the Mining Act, nor are they subject to the rules of the profession, so they are now a major devastation of space, open wounds and the focus of erosion. The conclusion is that most of them or maybe all of them are illegal. There is no documentation of the quantities obtained from the spears and no example of the recovery of the spears after the exploitation. In many abandoned spears, it continues to be exploited illegally occasionally. There is a whole paradox of the Nature Protection Act. On paper, we carefully protect plants and animals, and in the midst of their habitats, quarryes are opened large, noisy, dusty, ugly, visible to tens of miles with huge buffers, scraps and trucks that are not birds, do not run away, are all of us at shame and, above all, the executive authority that closes its eyes in front of them or the problem solves the trom and soft. In fact, both the Mining Act and the Nature Protection Act are clear. All we have to do is record a thief, an illegal stone exploiter, fine him with cash or jail, and get him to rehabilitate the devastated land. But is that so? I'm afraid not. The report of the State Inspectorate on the work of mining inspectors in 2007 said that they had 405 inspections and, for example, 62 misdemeanor decisions but also 25 statutes for offenders, that they had 12 decisions for crimes but also 9 statutes for the same. In the past four years, the total value of illegally exploited mineral raw materials has been around 600 million kuna. We're just talking about recorded values of inspection services, not those values they haven't seen and recorded. Inspectors say that illegal stone exploitation in Croatia participates with 24% of total stone production. We must acknowledge and give strong criticism to the Croatian executive authority who has shown its own credibility by allowing the exploitation of stone, gravel and sand to performers to build highways without concessions. None of the two hundred quarrys have been recovered and further excavations in quarrys are no longer controlled. We've been ruined by landscapes, local roads and forest roads, changed habits of the local population, we've been stolen from our mines, and we've paid all this dearly, greasyly for the performers instead of paying us and, of course, rescheduling the negative consequences in the landscape. The illegal pebbles especially on Savi and Drava are a special story, mainly because of the consequences that this dirty work can have on our lives because it endangers essential natural good and need, drinking water. Neither the number of illegal seines nor the pictures or the registration plates of a gravel truck are enough to prevent it. Why? Obviously, because some powerful men don't want it. And why won't they? Certainly not because of the beautiful eyes of the thieves and the exploiters of the gravel, but because of some benefit they may have from it. Hundreds of millions of kunas end up in the private pockets of thieves. Let us not forget that they are sometimes respected people in our community, and we poison ourselves with drinking water because of the disturbances in the water carrier and all kinds of garbage that appears in the holes after driving the gravel. They say the Zagreb plumber endangers at least 169 wild garbage dumps and 26 illegal seines. Is that why we're gonna have to drink plastic bottled water in stores soon? According to the Penal Code, the exploitation of mineral raw material without concession is a criminal offence for which fines or prison sentences are prescribed for up to three years and, if the work is committed in a particularly protected area of nature, the penalty is up to eight years. For the past three years, however, no sentence has been passed with the sentence of imprisonment for the illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials. So, all that good and good that we normatively arrange in the protection of plants and animals deepens its credibility, honesty and power of that hour and all those months and years when in their habitats we are shaved, we are dusted, and destroyed by heavy machines of our natural values thieves uninterrupted and unpunished.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20566	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first representative is Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20567	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Nature protection has a long tradition in Croatia, and it began at the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries when we also have the first people to deal with this issue as part of the Association of Croatian Naturalists, hikers and foresters. To date, different institutions have worked systematically to protect nature, and today so continues the Ministry of Culture, which particularly advocates when it comes to obligations to protect nature and standards clearly which, as such, result in access to the European Union, which is also a clear theme of today's changes and additions, but also invests in the development of capacity and nature protection systems and seeks to give it the signification that nature protection clearly and deserves in this Nice One. The fact that this is so clear also confirms that during the year 2000, a new legislative framework was approached, resulting in the adoption of the 2003 law, which was based on the coverage of all protected areas and species, as well as the natural values used specifically in the economy by agriculture, the hunting system, fishing, construction, transport, tourism and so on. And also at that time, the law had arranged the area of genetically modified organisms even if it was a completely different area, so it had to be changed. It was amended by law in 2005 whether it was therefore separate from this. And there was still one problem with the law, which is why 2005 was changed. This refers to issues relating to a different number and a very large number of sublegal acts, but also whether and all that was a problem in the implementation of that law. Therefore, the changes and additions in 2005 were logical. But what is encouraging in any case is that in the meantime Croatia joined 16 international conventions, so it practically joined as a member in all areas of nature protection. The adoption of these amendments and additions is also clear and should therefore be made clear within the legislative framework in the area of nature protection is now fully and fully and fully protected by landscapes, protection of areas, national parks, nature parks, special reserves. What is important will also be within the part that relates to the already not fully established but certainly part of the inventory and the assessment of the threat of wild properties as well as the invasive properties that threaten our area. There is also an assessment of the dangers of these wild properties that some have mentioned before. I think what's covered here is clearly going to give one whole new assumption of conservation of nature. It can also be said here that within this legal framework there is also an assumption of protection and other treasures such as mushrooms, minerals, fossils and so on. However, in any case, it should be said that this diversity is very important in the sense that species' habitat is affected and influenced by the water economy, tourism, transport and so on. So these are all branches that, where new regulations have been passed, all of which need to be harmonised. This relates equally to agriculture, forestry, hunting, and the assumptions of this are certainly legislative frameworks that we must comply with and with the Nature Protection Act. These coordinations should be clearly harmonised and harmonised with the provisions of the Council Regulation on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora, and subsequently with the legal arrangement of trade in that area, which has been one of the same problems so far, but also with the Council Directive on the conservation of natural habitats and wild flora and fauna. At the same time, we have passed some new laws that are listed here, clearly which should have been harmonised. They refer to the Violent Law, the Law on concessions, then the Law on Spatial Planning, Construction. So it was all supposed to be adjusted and harmonised now because that's the assumption. So an improvement in what is the primary goal of all of us. So here some are also talking about that investment as such is problematic. I don't think so. In fact, investment in nature protection is the only investment that will show its profitability and justification not only now but in the future in 5, 10, 15 or 20, I don't know how many years when... They come out clearly with these investments to see if generations have previously taken care of nature protection clearly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These shifts that we can see here in any case and those that contribute to what will be and the assumption that we will all hope to accept these new amendments and complements also refer to the decentralisation process because that is exactly what we are talking about is the total decentralisation in the state and that is the transfer of competence from the Office of State Administration in the counties to administrative bodies in the counties. Okay, there's gonna be some problems here anyway. There will be new investments, receipts, acquisitions and so on, so whether we can't set everything ideal or whether there is therefore a measure to be found in all of this. It should also be said that the signification of the inclusion of the Ministry of Culture in this case when it comes to facilities is whether specific conditions of nature protection should be established in the process of issuing a local permit for construction and execution of works but also procedures in the area of national parks, special reserves and so on. It should also be said that objects of particular interest also have special status and that we must look at it in our own way. In particular, what is to be pointed out and to be commended is that this provision specifies the compensatory conditions in order to mitigate or one substitute for those damages in the area of a particular ecological network is in a way that another area will be established. This is an exceptional, exceptional shift in the sense that it is clear whether the preservation of those features characterized by a particular ecological network. What is particularly significant is that, in order to be further arranged, further arrangements are now being made for the process of carrying out the assessment of the acceptability of procedures, plans and programmes for nature. And what makes us happy in Dalmatia is certainly the arrangement of activities that prohibit whether certain activities are carried out in a strict reserve, national park, nature park. This refers specifically to underwater activities, anchors and the like because there has therefore been quite a threat to nature or the environment. But in order not to last much longer, I hope that all together, so here I am, with this modest contribution, has helped to point out exactly the nature protection of a general signification that comes out of it. For all of us in different content and at different levels, and therefore I hope that we will all support these changes and additions together.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20568	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20569	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Total protected in the Republic of Croatia [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20570	Excuse me, there was a replica, right? Excuse me, there was a replica. Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20571	Dear fellow Members cannot agree with you that the site of GMOs or GMOs is not in the Nature Protection Act and that this was not well regulated in fact by the previous law, since genetically modified organisms have an extremely important importance for biological or have a major impact on biodiversity that deals naturally and the Nature Protection Act deals with this area. Therefore, I think that the adoption of the Law on genetically modified organisms which, in principle, liberalises the process and the possibility of releasing GMOs into the environment was a mistake and that this should not have actually been thrown out of the previous Nature Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20572	Thank you. Mr. Matkovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20573	I mean, fellow Holly, don't you understand me. I didn't say that, and that's definitely what I said. So you didn't understand. I only said that in 2003, therefore, the law also regulated the area of genetically modified organisms. However, these two areas differ significantly, and in 2005 it means that this area of GMOs is completely separate and that's quite logical, that's quite all right. So I didn't say this before what you said. I just said this, so the legal framework within which it was meant to separate, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20574	Thank you. Mr. Mance, come in. Not Mr. Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20575	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In Croatia, 11.94 land territory is protected in total through national parks, nature parks, strict and special reserves, parks, forests, monuments, park architecture and significant landscapes. We can freely say that Croatia stands out with a great wealth of plant, fungi and animal properties, minerals, Siobhan and fossils, and the diversity of ecological systems and habitats. As far as the law is concerned, in the conduct and preservation of nature, I would like to highlight an article that speaks of nature's procedure. This is Article 36. For a planned nature operation not covered by an environmental impact assessment, which itself or with other procedures may have a significant impact on an ecologically significant area or protected natural value, its acceptability for nature is assessed in relation to the objectives of preserving that ecologically significant area or protected natural value, and in accordance with this law and specific regulations. The planned procedures for which a specific regulation is required to assess environmental impact assessment of nature are carried out as part of an environmental impact assessment in accordance with a specific regulation. The scope for which it is mandatory to assess the acceptability of nature, content, time-limit and method of determining the acceptability of nature procedures, the manner of notifying the public and how to calculate the guarantees for the removal of possible consequences on the nature of the minister will be prescribed by a regulation with the prior consent of the Head of the Central Authority of the State Administration for environmental protection, spatial planning and construction activities. In June, as we heard in 2005, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Act on Nature Protection, which carried out the harmonisation of laws with international contracts of which the Republic of Croatia is party, and the Convention on Biodiversity and Directives, Regulations and Protocols of the European Union. However, during the bilateral screening, the European Commission recommended supplementing the provisions of the laws relating to cross-border traffic and trade in protected species of wild fauna and flora, and taking into account the adoption of the Law on Forests, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Environmental Protection Act, the Criminal Law and the Law on concessions. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act aims to further comply with Council Regulation No 338/97 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade in that area as well as Council Directive 92/43 on the conservation of natural habitats and wild fauna and flora. It is also necessary to comply with the provisions of the subsequently adopted rules. It was already said what was passed by this law. First, the transfer of competences to perform nature protection tasks from the Office of State Administration in Countys to administrative bodies in counties is a significant contribution to further decentralisation of nature-protected businesses. Under two, the procedure for carrying out an assessment of the acceptability of the procedure and of plans and programmes in areas which are part of the ecological network of the Republic of Croatia is further regulated. Three. A way to design and adopt a programme for the protection of forest environmental systems for protected areas in which the economic use of natural resources is not permitted under the Forest Act is established. Under 4. The provisions relating to the protection of wildlife are further aligned. Furthermore, the obligation to compensate for the damage caused by protected animals is limited to those caused by the animals in the strict protection category. Under six. The provisions on concessions with the new Law on concessions are harmonised. Under seven. More fully, cross-border traffic and trade in protected wildlife are regulated and sanctions are established. Eight o'clock. Infringement provisions shall be harmonised with material and procedural provisions, as well as with criminal sanctions under the Law of Infringements. In general, taking into account previous experience in law enforcement, it improves expressions to ensure the ease and better conduct of the law. Finally, counterpart Nevenka quoted Mr. Academyman Mohorovic as saying, and through the quote of Eckhart Toll from "New Earth" I will quote one of his notes, which means Eckhart Toll "New Earth". He says: “It is enough to look at the news to realize that the blade of madness is not numb but continues in the 21st century. Another form of collective dysfunction of the human mind is the unprecedented violence that human beings refer to other life forms and the planet itself. The destruction of forests that create oxygen, and other plant, animal species, then cruel treatment of animals in breeding sites, poisoning of rivers, oceans, and air. Human beings driven by greed are not aware of their connection with the whole persist in behavior that, if nothing prevents it, can only lead to their own destruction." Complete quote. In the end, I am sincerely convinced that the adoption of this law will contribute to a significant mitigation and human behavior towards nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20576	Thank you. Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20577	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for this law in amendments to the Act on the Protection of Nature with the Final Proposal of the Law still has its opening part. Since these days we have also received materials related to the protection of space from 2001 to 2007, we have information about what has already been done in the field of action. So first of all, I would like to say something about the condition of the landscape in Croatia. Protecting landscape values is one of the cornerstones of the total value of space. Knowledge of the value of landscapes has emerged more seriously after the increasing threat of human environments and landscapes as part of it. The protection of landscapes has been carried out for years but has only been reduced to normative measures, and only specially protected and recorded areas and cultural heritage have been protected. Today's intention is to evaluate and preserve landscapes throughout Croatia as well as urban, territorial and rural landscapes. The spatial planning of nature and culture protection is important for the landscape to be seen. Every resource is paying more attention to the landscape and installing it and seeking to install it into legislation. These efforts make it difficult for the lack and insufficient representation of experts in the area, and the most important shift for landscapes is made by creating a legislative framework by signing and ratifying the European Convention on the Areas of Florence in 2000, which took effect on 1 March 2004. The provisions of the convention on landscapes have also been incorporated into the new Nature Protection Act 2003 and 2005 respectively. Thus, the definition of nature protection states that it is a total biological and landscape diversity. Educational foundations of Croatia have also been developed by the Ministry of Spatial Planning, which has been the basis since 1999 for further discussion. Therefore, the fundamental laws that exist, so this proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act, are therefore only required for improvements. In the Republic of Croatia, 11.94% of land territory is protected, these are national parks, nature parks, then strict and special reserves, forest parks, parks, architecture and significant landscapes. Croatia has a lot of plant, fungi, animal properties of fossil minerals and the result of ecological systems and habitats. In 2005, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Nature Protection Act, which carried out the harmonisation of the law with international contracts and the Republic of Croatia's obligations to this Convention. On biodiversity, directives, regulations and protocols of the European Union. The European Union has prescribed supplementing the provisions of the laws relating to cross-border traffic and trade in protected species of wild fauna and flora, and taking into account the adoption of the Law on Forests, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Environmental Protection Act, and the Criminal Laws and the Laws on concessions. What exactly is going to be arranged by this law? This Law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act seeks to comply with the provisions of the Regulation... to protect the species of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade in this area as well as the Council Directive 92/43/43 of the European Union, the conservation of natural habitats and wild fauna and flora. It is also necessary to comply with the provisions of the subsequently adopted rules. The proposed law also addresses the following basic issues. So transfer what we consider to be very important for decentralisation of state administration transfers in counties to administrative bodies. I consider this transfer a further decentralisation of nature protection affairs. Then an assessment of the acceptability of the Nature Act. Then the creation and adoption of a programme for the protection of forest, ecological systems, all protected areas in which the economic use of natural resources is not permitted. Then damage to protected animals only in the category of strict protection that we know and today especially in this area where I come from, from the area of Gorski Kotar where major damages occur from wild animals. Next, the harmonisation of the provisions with concessions of the new Law on concessions, then cross-border traffic. However, it should be pointed out that Articles 6 and 8 are of particular importance, so that the procedure for the ex ante assessment of acceptability and development of spatial plans is detailed. And in the end, I'd say the same thing, that we're going to continue to do in nature, but we also have to think about what we're going to leave behind for generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20578	Thank you. We have one replica. Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20579	I am afraid that only the adoption of this law or any other law in this area will not significantly contribute to the improvement of the situation as regards the protection of nature and environmental protection in Croatia, given that the report on the implementation of the strategy that will also be found in this session has shown to what extent many plans and projects and programmes in the field of biodiversity protection are actually not implemented, and therefore I think that we must do much more than just pass laws in this area, but that we should also work very hard to realise what we adopt and agree on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20580	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20581	So I think Croatia is one part of the European Union and that there are, therefore, points of contact with other countries and places where there are also places to take care of what is happening in some places. I agree only in one part, so I said in the end, that we will operate in nature, that they are needed especially in areas where there will be imperative for certain economic issues in some local communities, but also if we do not have a law on how we will then follow these developments. I believe that at local level we will also follow what is happening and what economic benefits we will benefit from, for example. The mountain Kotar from which I come which is here we can say space clean enough and protected, but you should think about how to put it economically into function so that this space so-called. The corridor could also live better and have certain and significant revenues from nature itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20582	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20583	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The amendments and additions to the 2005 Nature Protection Act have been approached for several reasons, primarily the reasons for further compliance with the provisions of the Council Regulations on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora, the legal arrangement of trade in that area and the Council Directive on the conservation of natural habitats and wild flora and fauna. It was also necessary to comply with the provisions of the subsequent rules, primarily with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, the Law on Infringements, the Law on Forests, the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and the Law on concessions. In view of the above, the proposal for this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act also addresses some important issues. The transfer of competences to perform nature protection tasks with the Office of State Administration in Countys to administrative bodies in counties is regulated, which is a significant contribution to further decentralisation of nature protection jobs and is in line with the Environmental Protection Act. In addition, the procedure for carrying out the assessment of the acceptability of the procedure and of the plans and programmes in the area which are part of the ecological network of the Republic of Croatia is regulated. The way to design and adopt a programme on the protection of forest environmental systems for protected areas in which the economic use of natural goods under the Forests Act is not permitted is further aligned with the provisions relating to the protection of wildlife. The obligation is also due to the damage caused by protected animals, limited to those caused by the animals in the strict protection category. The concession provisions are in line with the new concession laws. Transboundary traffic and trade in protected wildlife are fully regulated and sanctions are established. What is important to me in this law, it is to coordinate the criminal provisions with the material and procedural provisions and with the criminal sanctions of the Criminal Code. In view of the fact that the Criminal Code has put above all the sanctions prescribed by the Rules of Procedure on the Internal Order of National Parks and Nature Parks, it was necessary to give powers to the supervisory services to sanction some illegal activities which had been resolved by those rules. I must say, in any case, the supervisors will now have much more power than they have so far, that they will be able to solve the poaching that unfortunately we have a lot in nature parks and national parks. Also, they will be able to solve wild construction that is particularly expressed in Medvednica Nature Park and all that they have so far failed to do, I think this law will make it easier for them. In general, taking into account the experience of law enforcement, it improves expressions to ensure the ease and better conduct of the law. Thus, among other things, a corrected statement is related to provisions governing the research of protected natural values and speleological objects in the Republic of Croatia, and from our Republic of Croatia for the scientific purposes of its nature and parts which are not protected by natural value within the meaning of this law. What I'd like to say is that, it was also said about the quarrys we unfortunately have in our parks of nature. I have to say that in Nature Park there were eight quarrys, now there are four more active and it would be good if here were the exploitation of these quarrys not going to the expense of the recovery and that really here in the shortest possible time these quarrys are closing if possible. But we're also aware that we need the quarrys still because we have to build roads, roads and all that. I think we need to find a solution, that it's not in nature parks, that it might be isolated from parks in other areas. Here, the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the State Republic of Croatia. The State budget of the Ministry of Culture shall provide resources for the protection of nature from which resources will be further provided for the implementation of the Nature Protection Act, including the proposed amendments and additions. For all the above, I will support the adoption of this law in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20584	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20585	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with you that this step is important for the transfer of powers or management rights from the state administration to the administrative authorities in the county is indeed a step of decentralisation and it will contribute to this process, but perhaps we should consider another step. Since I have been following the situation around the county and in my county of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska for years, we are fully aware of the fact that the counties do not have enough funds and in some ways it is, it will be their additional task and additional financial burden and should leave them perhaps one option. It's just this way of thinking and knowing the problems, leaving opportunities for those cities and eventually municipalities that are financially strong enough, which are even financially stronger than the county. So, we have county centres, for example Dubrovnik, which is financially two to three times stronger than the county finances, and in this sense we should possibly leave the possibility that in Article 72, which speaks of this matter in the basic, basic law, so the transfer of management rights, to leave the possibility to such strong units of local self-government, therefore to cities, municipalities that can financially endure the management of protected parts of nature, to make it simple for them to be transferred. I also know of a good example, it is certainly Dubrovnik, it is the management of the reserve Lokrum where it is clearly shown and proven. And in this sense, perhaps we should think about the next step, and in that part, so that both cities and municipalities are given the fundamental rights of those protected parts of nature that they themselves can manage.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20586	Answer, Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20587	Well, I agree with you fellow, anyway, to transfer these powers, obligations to the county... the opening of one or two additional jobs in the county. [[You can't hear the speaker because of the announcement.]] I agree that the bill should go to decentralisation, that in any case it should be closer to the citizens, and it would also be good to really get into the law that really larger cities and even some municipalities that may be connected to the very parks of nature, that they may also get certain powers. Is it in collaboration with the supervisory services with the communal directors, that they are really because I think that in the interests of both these cities and these municipalities that are within the parks of nature, it is in their interest that these areas remain protected by flora and fauna, and in this way I think that the law could be implemented much easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20588	Thank you. We've got two more replicas, but in 10 and 40, it's time to sign up for 10 minutes. And the replica also has Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20589	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. My colleague, in your speech, you mentioned that Article 50 changes the word "protected animals" to the word "strictly protected animals". However, the question arises which is the difference in the damage caused by protected animals or strictly protected animals. The aim of this is certainly and writes here to relieve the state budget of the damages that have been compensated from it, because normally there will be a smaller number of animals that will be covered in this way. However, this has not solved the underlying problem, and the main problem is to reduce the damage to the economies involved in these areas and where there are such animals or birds that can cause harm. The issue of fish birds, for example, on fish ponds, the issue of cormorants has been resolved through fees through a hectare. The question arises, however, what about other birds that will now be in the category of protected animals, not strictly protected or in some other activities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and where they are related to this part and which will have certain consequences through such a banal replacement, but significant certainly in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20590	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20591	Well, I agree with your colleague that he has a real one and here's those... savages doing damage to the farm economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know here are the examples... Wild boars, etc. Households, etc., but I think they have to deal with hunting societies as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think they have it because they're paying for insurance and they're secured through insurance houses where they have to compensate for the damage. And now he says, here's the hard part, I think the secretary of state might give a better answer, but I think now that these things are going to change some laws, I don't think that would be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20592	Thank you. Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20593	Dear fellow Gulic, I'll remind you of something I said when I spoke in a club room. In fact, I'm afraid this compliance with the Criminal Code will not make it easier for you to deal with your chieftain's management, and since the provisions of this law are still not sufficiently high-quality and precise in accordance with the Infringement Act. Well, in that sense, I've also appealed, but of course it's too late to fix these things in this law, because I'm afraid it might cause you some problems, not that it'll make it easier for you to do things wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20594	Mr. Gulic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20595	I think that in any case this proposal of the Nature Protection Act is much better than it has been so far and I think that at least in a great deal of ease, at least unlike how it's been so far. That supervisory services would have greater powers in their work than they had so far. We will see the practice will show how difficult it will make us or how much easier it will make for us. I think it'll make it easier anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20596	Thank you. Before we continue the debate, I would like to inform the clubs and the MPs and the MPs that the vote on the debated items of the agenda will be at 13.00 hours, so at one o'clock. Now it's Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20597	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. However, on the need to adopt the Nature Protection Act, it is clear to all here that this should and should be brought into line with European norms, i.e. other legal acts adopted in this House. However, to be clear about this, the fact is that most of this amendment to the law, other than those mentioned, is that this is due to the introduction of ecological networks and this raises the question of what areas are under these ecological networks, because if we declare a large quantity, a large area of these ecological networks, the question of the level of protection of environmental networks is raised, how limited is the management of these ecological networks, and who is financing these implementation measures that are mandatory after the adoption of the ecological networks? I have to rely on what my colleague Holly said on behalf of the SDP club, it seems to me that the law has been brought into the process too quickly, brought here before us, and there is simply no way to compare some of the things that the law prescribes, which was prescribed by the regulation on the announcement of environmental networks, which says that essentially this regulation says that the owner means in which area the ecological network is located, he himself bears the costs of implementing management measures in the ecological network. Then, what is all arranged by the environmental network management program? So, in general, they're ecological networks? And that's what we'd like to hear all the MPs answer, because I think the public knows little about it, too, so it's no problem that if the ecological network is declared in the area where someone from a public company, or companies owned by the Republic, is the issue when it's somewhere on private surfaces, who's going to compensate for that damage, or the restriction of management. When we talk about programmes, i.e. the basics of forest management, it is not clear to me who is now bringing the same, because changes and additions result in the creation and implementation of a public institution with the consent of the ministry. Which ministry? Does the Ministry of Culture, or the competent Ministry of Forest Affairs? If this is the Ministry of Culture, I'm afraid it's not right, because then the powers of another law which is the Law on Forests which then, and also then public institutions, or national parks were obliged to bring economic foundations, or forest management programmes, so I don't know why they're not, but I'm probably going to bring about it now or I'm afraid that this is the entrance to a small door that the Ministry of Culture brings the basics of forest management where it is not and which are not in protected areas, so a little Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy will give consent to these foundations of management. At the same time, our nature parks were mostly declared ten years ago, and I personally know that many of them were not yet adopted either the spatial plan or the management plan. So the question is, why didn't it come first, and on the grounds that other things should be passed through legal acts or through sublegal acts, to bring it in. Here I'm just going so much more for clarification, because I'm saying the deadline is to analyze the Nature Protection Act in detail, so I'm asking you to explain it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20598	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20599	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. The harmonisation of Croatian legislation with EU legislation seems to be done for our citizens, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and not for the purpose of the Brussels administration. So my first objection goes in the direction that this point is placed on the agenda, or at the speed that this point wants to be absorbed. I think they're making quality discussions that would include civil society organisations dealing with the protection of nature were unable to make any remarks. So I absolutely don't see why this speed, although there are no major issues in the bill itself, because our main problem in Croatia is not laws but is the problem of their implementation, so the existing Nature Protection Act would probably be a quality solution in most cases if it were implemented in quality and we will all agree that this is not the case. Our system of nature is ineffective, the law is not implemented although we will all here in the Parliament and outside it say how beautiful our country is, how we must all do everything to protect natural beauty, national parks, nature parks, etc. There's no dispute here at all. However, when we come to concrete things, when we have to choose between the protection of nature, plant and animal species or some particular private interest, the interest of the most often large capital then we tend to comply with some other logic, the logic of protecting this very capital. And therefore allow me to express a certain reserve according to certain solutions in this Proposal to amend the Nature Protection Act, in particular Article 37c, and Article 8 thereof, which refers to Article 37c. which says: "If an assessment of the acceptability of the environmental network procedures determines that the planned operation has a harmful impact on the network and that there are no other suitable options for the operation can nevertheless be carried out if there are imperative reasons for the prevailing public interest including those of social and economic nature.". Now, what is the prevailing public interest? ... Yes, fellow Members, this is most often not an interest in the wider community, the interest of the state, what we like to say to the Croatian national interest. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is the most common interest of some tycoon, often some tiny local tycoon who wants to build something on our beautiful coast or to smite forests inside or draw gravel that we have heard here from fellow HNS representatives from Croatian rivers. Most often when we talk about this dominant public interest, we talk about an interest that must not be. I am now asking a question here on a number of concrete things that even during last debate on the reduction of Nature Park "Medvednica" was not answered. Let's say that the Danube-Sava channel is a dominant public interest, although I believe it is not because it raises the issue of the Vukovar port whose strengthening is a Croatian public interest, gives the possibility of building Bosnia and Herzegovina's own ports on Slava, all costs would be borne by not only channels of some billion euros which are now not already available but also by digging the waterway to the Sava River. Now, what will endanger the Bosut Forests, the largest oak forest area in Croatia and beyond, which will endanger the Nature Park "Lonjsko polje" for which the Ministry of Culture has requested its inclusion in the UNESCO World Heritage List is simply not given up because if we are building a channel then we need to give up the story that the Lonjsko polje will be protected and that it will be included in the World UNESCO World Heritage List because one of the other simply does not go, and the Europe we love to call on, and this law is harmonized with the acquiss of the European Union, European scientists say that in these circumstances climate change is not necessarily going to take great steps in river flows. What is the prevailing public interest here? Here, I may be wrong, but I doubt it, I'd like to be denied. Overcoming the public interest in the construction of the Danube-Sava channel that will not be built as it started for the next 50 years, the prevailing public interest is the interest of construction firms in Slavonia who want to dig something by force and who want to make a good profit on it. Whether or not it will be a channel is quite peripheral but the money of Croatian taxpayers will go into the pockets of the owners of these construction companies at all should not be doubted if we know at what prices large infrastructure works in Croatia are being carried out, or what is the prevailing public interest when we talk about the protection of the Nature Park "Kopački rit" in terms of the existence of an exclusive hunting ground where Tito himself was being hunted in time, but it remains in tradition and present Croatian generations to be hunted there. If this hunting ground is located in the heart of Nature Park "Kopački rit" and there are all laws that prohibit it. We are talking about improving existing laws and even existing laws are not applicable. I do not question the need for certain species to be reduced in a known way. There may even be a hunting ground but it must be consistent with the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament. Or what happens, we move on, prevailing public interest in the Neretva Valley? If we have three or four projects that strongly oppose each other, if we want to further protect the valley of Neretva, which simply because of human activities and also natural flows, disappears as we can then for the project The Upper Horizons of the direction of the upper streams, the Neretva River in Bosnia and Herzegovina or how we can stand up as the Ministry of Agriculture, which in our plans has to irrigate or further increase the production of Mandarins and whatnot. What I'm saying is that between this prevailing public interest in this Article 8 will be widely interpreted and every time it appears to protect nature, the protection of plant and animal species that we call upon here in this law will simply be weaker and will lose that battle. We're talking about compensation here. But how do you compensate for a Lonj field? With what? With the artificial creation of such areas somewhere within the country and not counting any further. And it is particularly interesting when it is stated that, when it comes to internationally ecologically significant areas, the ministry will inform the European Commission. We are not a member of the European Union so that a large number of such procedures can be carried out over the next few years and that we will have a formal justification that we are not a member of the European Union, and then there is no need for the right to discuss it. And to conclude it means alone, only these proposals, the bill is not controversial but knowing that the existing laws are implemented clearly doubting that it will contribute to improving the nature protection system in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20600	Thank you. We have a replica of Mrs. Mirella Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20601	My dear colleague, you have mentioned the Danube-Sava channel well, given that we have received different interpretations from officials from the Ministry of the Sea, so some have claimed that we will be the subject of an environmental impact study. Others have said that no environmental impact study will be conducted, and since the Pasman forest or Bosut forest, I should be sure to enter the ecological network to see whether this project will be subject to this Article 6th and Article 36, respectively, which says: "For plans and programmes whose implementation can have a significant impact on the conservation and integrity objectives of the ecological network area, it is mandatory to carry out an acceptance assessment for the ecological network. Since so far convictions have been such that no environmental impact study will be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20602	Answer Mr. Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20603	Of course, the ministry will call for some kind of 1997 environmental impact study that is incomplete and that does not satisfy existing legal solutions. In addition, there is another thing that is more interesting, and that is that there is a complete disagreement between individual ministries and the ministry behind which certain interests of large capital stand. So I have no doubt that Minister Biskupic would be against the Danube-Sava channel but in this case, no one is asking because at the very top of the state it was decided that the 200-year-old project should now be realised. And why should it be realized, regardless of the adverse consequences of a series of things? Well, it's simply because you can collect a lot of money. If the project costs a billion. If we, if it takes 10, 20 years, that generation and generation of chosen ones can live well, they and their children can.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20604	Thank you. We have another replica of the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned your colleague Pančić's strategic or public interest. You've wondered about many areas... And I'm also wondering if you mentioned the valley of Neretva, so I'm wondering, me and the people of Neretva, the valley of Neretva, in fact, which is the strategic interest of the terminal to store and load liquid cargo at the port of Ploče? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The inhabitants of Neretva are in constant, intrinsically one uncertainty, so let us remember long ago that they were protesting the intention of building a thermal power plant at the very mouth of Neretva. And today, 20 years later, the same plan. These are the same inhabitants, however, but it is a young new generation that is much more conscious, more environmentally conscious and aware of what is coming to them. The ministry has accepted an environmental impact study to build the terminal for the storage and cargo of liquid cargo at the port of Ploče. However, there are many objections to such an impact, an environmental impact study. I wonder, actually, is the term strategic interest since it is located only a few hundred meters from the protected... areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know that the port of Ploče has now delayed several hundred thousand tons of anthracits in several open locations that smoke and poison the population day and night. So isn't this actually one of, say, possible causes why it insists on avoiding the announcement of the nature of the valley park, Donja Neretva, because this declaration might make their construction impossible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20606	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20607	My colleagues our basic problem regardless of party membership is thinking some, the main thing is to build it. And what is being built and what will have consequences for the environment and present and future generations is less important. That, we had these experiences from the socialist period, we had experience in an independent state, Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and similar thinking is today. And no matter You didn't expect that from me. [[/Employed: Dear Representative.]] If you can [[A little bit, a little bit.]] Here's a colleague, Matušić, who's a little nervous, and he'd like to build on that little island of Dubrovnik's pores, regardless of how he couldn't handle a hundred guests. [[Intruder: A little conciseness please!]] But to leave Matusic and his devastation plans to return to the valley of Neretva. But to leave Matusic and his devastation plans, to return to the valley of Neretva. The problem with the Neretva Valley is that there are 4 or 5 opposing plans. We have a plan of the Ministry of Culture to further protect this area, but then we have projects at the Ministry of Agriculture that say that further irrigation projects need to be implemented, to expand the plantations of Mandarins or anything else. Then we have at the Ministry of Economy which is why I was attacked when I discovered a plan with the upper horizons that would completely devastate that area. Well, then we also had plans in the tourism sector, which Minister Biskupić last time denied about building certain hotel facilities, and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20608	Thank you. You're out of time. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20609	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a colleague completely unnecessarily injured article 214 was injured. I think he should have been warned because I was neither involved nor talked about what you're talking about. First of all, there's no point in telling such a lie. If you're nervous, if you're already wrong, so you have no reason to talk...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20610	Thank you very much. That no longer falls under the Rules of Procedure. And you have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20611	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that Sava – the Danube canal will only be built in perhaps 50 years or later, as you said. He's on schedule. He will be built on time by a colleague to your grief, and to the joy of the Croatian people who live in that part of Slavonia. So the other thing that's incorrect is that someone supports the project of the upper horizons. No one from Croatia supports it, exactly the opposite. We warn that consent will be sought and you should ask Croatia for agreement on such a single project. And certainly we will take care of Croatian national interests. And a third thing. As far as the board is concerned, the people of Ploč are best informed about the projects that this Croatian government is conducting down in the elections, parliamentary elections where we received absolute support and most Croatian citizens from Ploč about the projects that take place in Ploča.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20612	Thank you. Injury of Rules of Procedure Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20613	I didn't say a word about the records in my debate. Which Article 209 or 214 is anyway. My colleague spoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20614	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. These are no longer infringements of the Rules of Procedure, and please read the Rules of Procedure so that we may speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Not just you, it's all about you. Thank you. And we continue with an individual debate. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20615	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. It is truly surprising why we bring to our noses a law that, together with the Law on the Forests, has strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia, with the Law on the Maritime River Ports. When discussing precisely these topics these are important national topics, such as the 1990s defence of Croatia today, we must understand that the defence of our land, forests, nature, our non-renewable resources. Because once we get rid of them, it's over for good. What happened in the 1990s while the defenders were defending the country was someone privatizing their jobs or companies that were creating companies, let's not let this happen to us with our non-renewable resources that ultimately make up a state. Why is this so important? Because in all these preparations that were discussed by colleagues, what was to be done and what should be prevented in the future, there was also one language that was the basis for something that was happening that we witnessed, and what should be prevented, and this law. In fact, as it was in the 1990s hated, so it was self-government and all those words that made it easier to privatise such companies, better to say kidnap them, then a syntagm was created for former social property, and these were forests, ports and all of what is here today with certain laws we want to protect but whose application is very much whispering, so when it's socially nothing. It eoipso laws became state property. But it remained in the minds of people as something that shouldn't be protected, or what belongs to everyone or anyone. Now, that's very dangerous, and that's what this is about, and a report on the protection of something that represents state property and this kind of area. Namely, in the total number of applications and criminal charges, the crimes of environmental pollution are involved in the total sum, the mass of crime for the poor one-point percentage. And that includes the exploitation of the mineral treasure. So what is the awareness of what it is and what it is not to be protected, and then what happens to us in front of our noses is that huge quantities and mineral treasures are exploited without anyone paying for it. It was said here that it was normal, because the roads were built. Because the one who steals state property still pays the state. And they're absurds, but they've been repeating it for years and we can't put an end to it. So it's obvious that those people who do it don't do it on their own but that the strings are being dragged somewhere to the authority of local or other levels. For the criminal offence of the illegal exploitation of mines which is difficult to reward the environment and damages the budget, as it is avoided paying dues paid by persons who have received the concession. All ninety-one people were charged with 56 people, and all 16. What also concerns, which is that changes to the laws that reduce this common good, including the forest, are taking place. In recent amendments to the Law on Forests, it is possible for a part of the forest to be converted into building land. It is said, and it is explained by the government's representative that here we want to encourage a small economy. Don't we have enough scissors, don't we have enough junk where it's possible to build such facilities? It is true that the Croatian state has bought a lot of hectares lately. The largest is 163 hectares in both the area and the most in the area of Delnice and Buzet. But then it amazes the fact that she bought those land and then they go to privatisation. There's really something wrong with that. In fact, we have such absurdities and in these protected areas of nature that these properties are operated by privatised fishing companies as legal followers of former social enterprises in the Republic of Croatia and for the use of these properties as public water goods do not pay any compensation or pay only a fee for the use of water here and there but not for the real compensation they should pay for the use of public water goods. Also, certain units of local self-government have brought in a programme of state-owned land according to the provisions of the law, and then they, please, have found these inspection and state authorities, provided for the sale of ponds and some even called for a tender and tried to alienate those properties. That's why I'm here against bickering under the development of local self-government and decentralisation that these public goods are made available to local self-government units because they usually sell it. It's not the development of local self-government. The development of local self-government is, above all, the decentralisation of resources for the necessary services that citizens there need to achieve in the nearest and most efficient and efficient way, given that such services are the closest to citizens and not in such a way that state property is alienated. So, according to the Water Act, they don't have any authority or anyone was responsible for that. It also amazes the fact that in some bankruptcy proceedings, even bankruptcy courts have sold ponds as a bankruptcy of bankruptcy debtors, which is why the Republic of Croatia must conduct special procedures and compensate even for the damages to customers of these properties who, in good faith, have bought these properties when sold by the court. I don't know if it's happening in any country yet. But there are still pearls. Not only that, but also HEP as a state-owned company has registered on all properties on which it previously had the right to use, as well as on land-based land-water properties. in real estates located in areas of protected nature which have a public water status and are owned by the Republic of Croatia. And so even on the entire lakes. For example, Lake Peru, and see if you see any absurdities. The state must now rise up against its state-owned company. The exploitation of mineral raw materials and the resolution of property relations in this respect are a burning problem for Croatia, but this is something that has become common and I especially repeat. And why doesn't that come across some broader and sharper social judgment? So listen, in the mid-1990s, back in '96, we've always had a criminal act of illegal exploitation of the mine treasure, and then it's very mysterious, and it doesn't suck out of our criminal law. We only introduced this in 2001 as a crime that has always been and in all countries particularly dangerous social behavior because it causes huge damage to the state, rewards the environment and predicted therefore sanctions. But here's the problem we haven't particularly recovered since then, because somehow it doesn't come to a harsher condemnation. So, here, let me finish. This is a very important law. It's a shame that yesterday to five o'clock, certain committees were still discussing this bill that we are urgently here now and bringing it in. This debate is very cramped. It is true that it is European law, our law that we want to get close to the European Union and adopt such standards, but it has had to cause a greater public interest because of the strategic laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20616	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20617	My fellow Members, you have made this excellent mention of the exploitation of mine wealth without paying any concessions or other donations to the state. It's no accident that it got lost, as you also said in the Penal Code. It was lost because in the background there is a huge crime of which a certain number of people in Croatia live extremely well. We were talking about exploiting gravel in rivers and sands for which no kuna compensation is paid. We had examples of how to get permits from the pond state and those fish ponds didn't sail because they then draw that gravel. Or we had examples especially at sea of how people are given agricultural land for planting olive groves and then instead of olive trees grow apartments. And the most interesting thing is that everyone knows about it, knows the local authorities, knows the media, knows the local authorities, so I'm sure they need to know something about the state. They know the inspections but no one is doing anything and therefore we cannot talk about a good system of nature protection when neither the rule of law system in Croatia works the best way, in a way that we would probably all want here. And because of that, by strengthening the rule of law, by strengthening the role of inspectorates and various inspections with good laws, we will eventually be able to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20618	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20619	This exploitation, i.e. the illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials, is the largest colleague, as you have now particularly apostrophe in Split-Dalmatia but also in Zadar and Ličko-Senj County. They're huge losses. There even the state is guessing, so she made it around somewhere for the last year 62 million, and then by making a deal, one part just to charge for it. And that's one big problem now and it's something that's happening to everyone already. So it's not something hidden, it's something you can see. It's not some kind of forest theft that someone blew off an illegal tree. And it's quite clear that the detachment of that thing, those threads must be pulling somewhere up to unsuspecting heights, and that's why it's not disintegrating. That's number one. Secondly, we have a big problem as well that all these properties that we want specifically to protect come into the hands of foreigners because if we don't protect them from our own citizens and then the foreigners say we want them on equal terms. Then there will be what you have set as an example now, and I fear that if all of us do not work together, then one common consciousness and the danger that has prevailed over our unrenewable resources that the prophecy of the prophet Jeremiah will be realized: “The strangers have moved into our houses. We have to buy our own wood. We have to pay for our own water."
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20620	Thank you. We've got another one, one replica. This is Honorable Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When you talk about the Law on the Forests, your colleague is not exactly a problem that the Law on Forests has been passed and that, changes and additions are being made and that in this way something is going to happen, let an entrepreneurial zone be built on the forest and forest land. The bigger problem is that the government, through a sublegal act, brings the rules on compensation for the use of forest land to some needs. There's a bigger problem. And when you speak to the ponds in which the lords and so on there are also ponds where no one is mastering, otherwise, nor manages, and they are rich in natural and, above all, biological diversity, and unfortunately owned by the Republic of Croatia. So the Republic of Croatia doesn't know what to do with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20622	Thank you. There isn't. Okay. We have exhausted everything in the debate and the final review of the proposing representative is the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Culture, respected Zoran Sikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20623	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for all the comments you made in this debate, and for some of them, I will take a brief look back on behalf of the promoter. First, I want to say that we hold that the law adopted in June 2005 is a really good law and that we had a full, whole debate before the law was passed. This is about these amendments and the complementarity of the 7 legislative regulations adopted by this House, on one directive and one Council of Europe regulation. The reasons for urgency are precisely that most of these legal ones, in the context of the debate and of each of these laws, have already been implemented to a significant extent. You mentioned a dilemma in the Ministry of Culture's portfolio? It is not Croatia's exception. The only case in the world is that it's outside the environmental protection sector. Some countries also give us support for this. This government was guided by the fact that it also combines a key element by which it connects these two, culture and protection of the nature of heritage. The experience and tradition that we have in protection means and preservation of cultural heritage largely takes place regardless of the hundred-year tradition that nature protection in Croatia has in this part and given all the conventions which the Republic of Croatia has signed in the meantime we have taken, for example, the UNESCO Convention and the Coastal Convention. Furthermore, we have to admit that the Ministry of Culture is the only ministry that has exclusive protection in its district, because if we compare the ministry, for example, that mentions environmental protection, spatial planning and construction, then... We always have a segment or sector that is in a certain way in conflict with what we originally call protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About the percentage. Here's what we're talking about is unequal numbers and percentages. It is the fact that the State Institute for Nature Protection has produced a report on the state of nature for 7 years by the end of 2007. This government wants to correct and make available to the public data on protected areas, so the data they used is the one published in the report on the state of nature and nature protection. Thereafter, a strategy of biodiversity and landscape diversity takes place for a slightly longer period, and a new protection took place during this period. In particular, it is a large area of preventive protection covering as much as 5 counties of protection of the Mura and Drava River. And that means half of 2008. Today we are discussing amendments to the Nature Protection Act and in the 8th month, there has been a new protection. It's about the preventive protection of the river Cetina. So the data is changing. For that reason, we came to those close to 12% and I will remind you that from the creation of this country we were something over 7%. And I'm really proud that our country is keeping an eye on it and that by 50% it increased those protected areas from what it inherited from the former state. Strong protection and protection. Highly protected species and protected species. These are two different categories and clearly defined by the sublegal act, a regulation on strictly protected and protected species defined by the 2005 law. What's the difference? This country wants to prevent abuses and pay compensation for strictly protected species only. And protected species commit users, masters of space to take measures to prevent that damage. Today we are talking, today an integrated protection model has been accepted. It means protection for everyone. About 600 people work in the nature protection sector today. We have 40 institutions, 8 national parks, 11 nature parks, the State Nature Protection Institute and 20 county institutions. Share it if we're going to statistically it's 15 people per institution. It absolutely coincides with the European average. We want to avoid centralised both within the debate and on the strategy of biodiversity and landscape diversity we have heard how to think waist, public and absolutely support a model unlike some countries that have decided to centralised it. It's an ecological network. The strongest instrument of the European Union is the ecological network, i.e. what they call NATURA 2000. We are expected to make an exceptional contribution, as Croatia is at the very top of biodiversity in Europe. If we want to do it more precisely, precisely actually evaluate the classification to the third place. Slovenia is the country for the largest isolated area. Bulgaria has a tall one. That's about 35.36% somewhere. We're in discussion now. We're doing a project. We draw international money, money from international funds, to define in a broad communication what areas we have in us. It's about a third of the area, and it's all about, dealings are defined by this law, but the government is making a regulation just means locality. It will adopt regulations which are areas where the provisions of this law will apply. Forest programs. We have clearly defined where they have, where there are economic activities and where they do not exist. And where there are, it brings to the competent ministry, which is the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. It brings forest economic ground. Where there are no economic activities, and these are national parks, strict reserves, especially reservations. That's where we give it, it's no longer done in such a way, but according to the criteria prescribed by the sublegal act. It's about the forest regulation. It shall bring the Administrative Council with the consent of the Ministry of Nature Protection. Overcoming interest. For the dominant interest cannot be the basis of economics. You will soon get on the agenda, for example, the Water Act, where we will probably have one and a dilemma, because the water economy sector defines what we agree to be an absolutely dominant public interest system of flood defense. However, many times we have the prevailing public interest in nature protection. Overcoming public interest is procedure. About it, the decision is made exclusively by the Government but with the meaning of a public debate. And if such a decision is to be made then it means to compensate that area and therefore we will not put everything that is European value in our areas, but we must have a reserve from where we will eventually compensate those areas. Therefore, only in that segment that can definitely be an area means making decisions of dominant public interest rather than economic benefit. Lonj field nominated for UNESCO list as mixed. The first proposal is our Croatian as a mixed good, on UNESCO's list. But Lonjsko polje is a natural retention in which economic activities are allowed. We want it to be a space in which it will be, to feel the co-existence of man and nature, and therefore that landscape that is no longer seen in relation to individual protection of a particular project that will have to be respected by the law whether through an impact assessment strategically. If not, if it is part of the ecological network, the acceptability assessment will definitely work separately. In order to establish and on this basis only a decision may be taken at the end and at the level of the Government in the prevailing public interest. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we keep all this on behalf of the promoter that there are sufficient reasons to strengthen the implementation. And finally, for our own sake, but why not say the obligations and standards that we seek within the legislation of the European Union. Because they found the management of national goods such as protected natural goods, national parks, nature parks, all other categories through screening rated excellent. What they give us within the criteria that we still need to meet is just strengthening capacity at regional, local level and that law gives us the opportunity when we talk here whether, why stop at the county level. So, regional self-government. The 2005 Nature Protection Act allows county authorities to transfer jurisdiction to an even lower level, the local level means cities and municipalities. They also instructed us to strengthen inspection services, and this is what we did, by making it a better implementation for the first time in our own private nature protection inspection services. So, we still have a lot of work to do. I believe that and this law will help us to have one of the best systems of nature protection in Europe in the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20624	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20625	Fourteenth, Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Nature, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 188. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Proposal of the Law was adopted by the majority 101 votes for and 5 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20626	Point 11. We skip because we don't have the conditions for today's debate. Moving to point 12. That's 12. Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINE from 1 May 2007 to 30 April 2008 Carrier: The Administrative Council of HINE delivered the Annual Report on the basis of Article 14. The HINA Act. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on Croatians outside the country. The government delivered an opinion. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Smiljanka Škugor-Hrnčević, director of HINE. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20627	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs. I'll just be brief, given that it's been a little while since the report's been in Parliament. Therefore, the report concerns the period from May 2007 to April 2008. During that period, the Administrative Council held the 12th session, where several decisions were taken on HINE's business, and carried out the public tender procedure and on my proposal by law to the four-year term, the new editor-in-chief of HINA Mr. Darko Odocić was elected by the Director-in-Office. According to the financial report, HINA ended in 2007 with 198000 kuna surplus income on expenditure. We totalled 35.4 million kuna revenue in 2007 which was 3.29% more than the year before 2006 and our expenditures were 35.2 million kuna and were 3.78% higher compared to 2006. As HINA was involved in the VAT system due to the market nature of its activity, it paid total revenue from these total assets of HRK 35.4 million to the state budget on behalf of that VAT, i.e. to kuna 5.7 million. I also have to say that in 2007, we had a great charge from customers that was '97.38% and actually what is our basic thing, which is our news and our basic activity in 2007 as well as all the years before we worked 24 hours in more than a thousand news editors' shifts using and services to a dozen foreign national global agencies in four languages. HINA is today a system that has 167 permanent employees. During the observed period, we broadcast 252 thousand news, photography and in the last reporting period 241. So we can say by 11 grand that we've increased our production so it can be said that we've been successful. Given that the Croatian media and non-media market of general information content is significantly saturated, HINA must also turn around like other news agencies in the world to produce specialized news, especially in the area of economy and finance, so in the past observed period we have launched new two services that are exclusively intended for business, businesses and actually financial institutions. During the observed reporting period HINA has completed almost all planned tasks in a stable business and here I can now say in the report we wrote that it will very quickly function and I must boast that it has been functioning our content for mobile devices, which is the top 10 most important news. So it could be either ten or fifteen, depending on how active you are and how much news you have, or not to you, but to all politicians and even events that you can actually get through HINA on your mobile devices. The indistinguishable factor for HINA's development is actually the development of a correspondence network and we every time the entire HINA leadership, including myself, are trying to warn everyone and to come out and help us both financially and with support, in fact, that the whole of Croatia is networked, that we have correspondents from all over. To this end, we launched a pilot project of cooperation with local radio televisions and radios through HURIN and NUT. I think in this year, the next thing you know, we're gonna be able to do it sometime by 5 months. HINA has four permanent correspondences in Croatia that are constantly employed by its journalists, these are Pula, Rijeka, Split and Osijek and we actually cover everything else on a part-time basis. The basic strategic development project of HINA is HINA's information base, the HBDC Information and Documentation Centre. HINA has received 4.5 million kuna support for this project from the Ministry of Culture's budget and this is in fact all related to the merger of Vjesnik's documentation and HINA. This organisational integration, the takeover of people and the content of work, the formation of the new HINA unit began on 1 June 2007 and ended entirely in December 2007. HINA has received all 14 full-time employees from Vesnik's paper and indefinitely, except one employee who has declared himself willing to retire. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20628	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Nenad Stazic, chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20629	Your Honor, Vice President. On 8 July 2008, the Information, Information and Media Committee discussed the annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA from 1 May 2007 to 30 April 2008, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Administrative Council of HINA by act of 17 June 2008. The Committee considered that report as a parent working body. In his opening statement, the President of the Governing Council pointed out that during this reporting period HINA there were two tasks. One was saving Vjesnik's database and another the development of a correspondence network because HINA still does not cover Croatia as a whole. The first task was carried out and other representatives of HINA asked for the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the representatives. In the debate, it was concluded that the amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 were allocated another million kuna and that the money would also be invested in the development of the correspondence network. After the debate was held, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "The Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA is accepted from 1 May 2007 to 30 April 2008. A year.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20630	Thank you. Do government representatives want to further explain their opinion? Yeah. Dear Zoran Šikic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20631	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government considered the report of the Governing Council of HINA and on behalf of the Government I would like to conclude that it gave a positive opinion and proposed to the Croatian Parliament that a report be delivered to HINA to be accepted at this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20632	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Croatian Democratic Community club, the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20633	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Director, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. As we have already heard in the opening presentation before us is the report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA and HINA itself for the period from 1 May 2007 to 30 April 2008 which we can say is very extensive and quality. It is divided into three chapters, which are primarily about the work of the Governing Council, about the work of the administration itself, i.e. Annual HINA report containing data on HINA’s development projects, services, services, IT projects, projects under way and certainly a financial report, and ultimately a report on the work of the HINA editorship itself. Today HINA is also listed in the report by the agency, which broadcasts 500 titles in Croatian and English through twenty general and specialized services. There are 169 employees in total, 120 of which are at least in this reporting period, but we hope that this number will really increase because we heard from the inaugural presentation of the director that this is a necessary need and the Information Committee in its report pointed to the need for the network of HINA correspondents to spread to the territory of the entire Croatia even though it is now 343 contracted users. HINA is one of the key institutions whose goal is primarily to promote truth, independence, news and information. Information is very professional on which both foreign and domestic media and users of HINA services rely. HINA's reports can be told daily by those who meet them are fast, interesting, accurate and impartial. HINA works 24 hours as the director said works more than a thousand 200 news editors' shifts in several editorials. During this reporting period, 252 thousand text and photo information was released and broadcast. Why is it important to repeat these figures and to list some others in this report? Because mentioning the figures themselves speaks of how extensive the work of HINA's journalists is. They follow daily events, they are present almost in every corner of our beautiful. In particular, this report underlines, highlights development projects. In the previous report on the past period when we discussed in the Croatian Parliament, it was noted that the success of the work should be strengthened by the correspondence network both in the country and abroad because it is the obligation of HINA to report from all parts, all areas of Croatia. He began, as the director said, a pilot programme of cooperation with local stations which can be said proved quite good and effective. In this report, there is plenty of space devoted to the development projects and tasks of HINA, which HINA has put before itself as an institution. The paper is also a project that will link news agencies in Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the exchange of news but also on a market basis, not only as a link between the news agencies themselves, but also the connection of users. After accepting that project to connect HINA's information base and the previous working unit of the Vesnik newspaper documentation in HINA in 2006, the Assembly adopted that project to connect HINA's information base and the previous working unit of Vesnik's paper in HINA's construction unit during 2007 and the beginning of this year, all the planning tasks were carried out and thus the condition was created for HINA to take care of the protection of the largest news database. For the whole project we heard HINA received financial support from the Ministry of Culture and during this reporting period we saw that 4.5 million kuna from the state budget was spent precisely for this purpose and that there was a good database, one place where according to the rules on the preservation of the archive building kept independent newspaper material as cultural historical good. How the report can only read the connection of these two databases has prompted the development of the entire HINA information system through modernisation, which has prompted the normal modernisation of the computer network and even the space of HINA built as the new central content storage system and security storage. It is certainly interesting and I said that I would purposely highlight some figures to gain strength and impression of the intensity of what HINA is doing and that it can determine how large the work of editorials and thematic services is, so we must stress that during this reporting period general services of news that 19 thousand 187 news has been published from Croatia and that 7 thousand 298 followed by internal politics, 4 thousand 306 news culture, 2 thousand 431 news chronicles and society, a thousand 577 news has been released. Excuse me, a thousand 574 news in the field of social affairs, which is unlike when we look at 122% more news in total than in the previous reporting period. It is interesting and here we follow the work of HINA and HINA reports to the Parliament that about a thousand news reports about the activities of the Croatian Parliament through seven sessions that were followed and about the work of the Government 300 news. She also followed the work of political parties through 2 and a half thousand news, especially normally during this period she followed the news that was related to the parliamentary elections. Certainly, in this period in the future, when we are preparing for the European Union, HINA needs and pays attention to foreign and political news, and this is where it has made significant progress in numbers. 23 thousand 684 news broadcasts. That's why I said I'd talk about numbers. It is evident from this that HINA is a professional house, that it is indeed an independent medium to which there is very little criticism in the public. HINA is also important because it has strengthened this period and its economic order and is monitoring the state of the economy and developments in the Croatian economy, as well as in joining our economy with European processes, so it has also sent to the world a thousand 882 news from that area. And it's good for HINA to turn around in this area. And finally, I want to underline this financial report, which says that HINA did a positive job, so with the excess income, the principal herself said from 198,000 kuna, that these revenues were increased by 3.29% and the total revenue of the entire agency was achieved for this reporting period of 35 million kuna. It is interesting that the incomes from users increased by more than 4% and participated 49, almost 50% in revenues. The revenues per subscription to the news, the information is higher than in 2006 for 2007 when this financial report was followed by 2 and a half% and they participated by 48% in the total revenues. The report shows that there is a steady slight increase in its own income, which is good, and in this report, unlike previous ones, we also received data on the number of FINA employees, therefore on the number of employees. Total revenues have increased as important as well as what it says about the stability of the institution as well as its further reflection on development. Because of all this, we as the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20634	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20635	Dear Vice President, distinguished principals, colleagues and colleagues. At first, let me say quite clearly, the SDP will support the adoption of this report. The report is well-assembled. It's a methodologically well-assembled. It is transparent, it is clear and what is most important it shows that HINA functions stable and well. He manages to collect 97% of his claims from the committees, and that's good, and I'm not going to list here what HINA is doing and I'm not going to read parts of this report. That's what you got and read. I'll just say one thing about two things we care about. In fact, we're a little concerned about the future of HINA. There are two big jobs standing in front of HINA, which is, it's an information-documentation centre, connecting with this Vesnik file, and there's 4 and a half million kuna from the Ministry of Culture, but it's a huge job. But not only is it a huge job to get that paperwork taken over by HINA, it's a job without end or end. It must continue to work further probably in some digital form must be available to everyone and it is a job that is neither simple nor cheap. We're glad that the documents from Vesnik's house were saved. We think she's come to the right place. Here are the employees. Only one retired and HINA continues to do the job. We support her in this, but we fear that HINA alone will not succeed without the government's support, the government's secret support. Or at least it won't work the way we all expect it to. This represents a cultural treasure, this Vjesnika, or now HINA's documentation that must not fail, which must be preserved and which must be continuously upgraded. It's a collective memory preserved in that, in that documentation. We're afraid HINA doesn't have enough resources for that and business is too important. The second, second problem HINA faces is an undeveloped correspondence network. HINA has correspondence, constant correspondence only in Pula, Rijeka, Split and Osijek. And we need to cover all of Croatia. We don't have five agencies. We only have one to trust. Watch out for news on portals like this, but none of them are responsible for their truthfulness, for their content or for anything else. In HINA, someone is responsible for this news and I think it is in the interest of all of us to have the entire Croatia covered by HINA's journalists. HINA's on her way now. She's getting along as well as she can, so she's taking part-time correspondents. They're working somewhere on some local radio or some local newspaper, and then they're doing some part-time news for HINA. I don't think that's enough. We at the SDP Club think HINA should expand its network of journalists professionally. For what? Because then the system of responsibility is somehow tighter, stronger than when you have a feer who can send you some kind of misinformation. What do you want? You'll cancel his contract, look for someone else. But in fact, HINA's editorship and HINA's leadership take responsibility for such work, which doesn't always have to be the best. And you know by these local radios, you don't have a high-end or well-educated, well-educated press. And HINA must be used by their services. HINA received a million kuna in 2008 from the state budget and only by rebalance of the budget. This is little, which means that the basic funds planned for 2008 in the state budget and intended for the HINAs were not enough, so only by the rebalancing of the million kuna given to HINA. Now why are we afraid for the future of HINA? We're afraid that next year's budget will not cover these development needs of HINA. Here we read in the paper that the prime minister said he brought the country into a banana, that Croatia's future hangs by the thread. These are disturbing statements, statements announcing a thin budget for important needs, and these are important needs. And we're wondering what's gonna happen to HINA if the government doesn't manage to provide enough resources for these two important functions HINA has. Here's my concern again, we'll support this HINA report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20636	Thank you. Two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20637	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, an incorrect colleague said that the prime minister claimed that he had brought the country... It's an incorrect statement, it has nothing to do with the truth. [[You don't understand.]] Maybe you're in a banana when you have to tell the truth like that here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20638	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I have to correct the part of the presentation of the distinguished fellow Stazic. He said, "We're afraid the money for HINA won't be." So this debate is not in the 2009 budget debate This is a debate on the report and on the work of HINA, nowhere is it mentioned exactly that we are afraid, but it is said that the HINA programme and its development projects are accepted, and that is how we can discuss it when we discuss the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20640	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20641	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Director and fellow MPs. So Croatia's news agency is certainly one of the examples of more positive development through a newer Croatian history. It was only this year that she became an adult, i.e. She was 18 years old in her copying work, and with her rapid development, she got as much as 700 news a day, 21 thousand news a month, or as the principal said 252 thousand news a year. By spreading further optimism with its action, because year after year, more and more broadcasts have text and photo information. By observing this reporting period compared to the previous one, 5% more information was broadcast from HINA services. All these business obligations are now being carried out, as has already been said, 169 according to this report are employees and 60 part-time correspondents. It is truly commendable that such a numerically modest team is successfully serving in the domestic and foreign political areas, reporting about events from the European Union and war areas around the world, global events and up to the events in our home space. But HINA's employees like you heard work 24 hours. You also heard that by working in more than 1200 news and office shifts they use the services of a dozen national and world news agencies in four world languages. Therefore, not only should we positively assess this report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA but they should be given full support on the newly launched activities of these projects that you spoke of by the Director. pilot projects of cooperation with local radio stations and TV homes in order to better informatively cover Croatia's area. Through the HINA development project, this HINA information base, three information-documentation centre, which joins the leading group of news agencies based on information and knowledge management. It will provide important services to users, establish broad cooperation with higher education institutions in Croatia and abroad and with the Ministry of Science and with the European Union. With the help of new IT technologies, it will introduce a system of Semantic analysis of text that will fully link the daily production of HINA content and the production of new services and communication values. HINAs should help to strengthen the correspondence network in the country and abroad as soon as possible, especially now that Croatia is getting closer to the European Union. HINA's employees must be properly, continuously and continuously educated, trained in order to be able to perform their tasks as well as to respond normally to these challenges of modern and increasingly demanding journalistic work, and I don't think HINA's future is questionable at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20642	Thank you. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20643	Thank you very much. Here's a lot of words. Dear Mr. President, Madam Director, Mr. Secretary of State. We're glad that the HINA report was accepted this way, I would generally say so, so I'll point out just a few factors that have not been mentioned so far. So to praise is the increase in the number of news, so the information as the final product of HINA, which is 252,000 information with 241,000 in the previous report, is an increase of 3.7% definitely seeing HINA productivity in a positive atmosphere. In addition, perhaps another very significant piece of information should be added to this to say so in the business part of HINA, which is that income per employee has increased significantly. It's one factor that tells us about the productivity of actually this agency of ours. The income from 215 thousand kuna per employee in the previous report has increased to 228 thousand this year, which is an increase of as much as 5.7%. It says that the agency's organization is top-notch, that efficiency is high. I'd just like to mention here the monitoring of our Parliament that perhaps no one has said by now. So over this period, about a thousand news from the Parliament itself, very objective, short, summed and informative. And what's most important about HINA's reporting was not an observation, HINA is in some way a shock absorber according to sensationalistic reports that we may be able to read. What HINA really needs at this point, which is the expansion of the network of correspondence, is what they all said. However, I am pleased that the plan on page 2 is said in the words "it is necessary to strengthen the correspondence network simply in the country and abroad for which appropriate financial resources are needed and, of course, the plans are called upon and the founder to take into account the following budgets for the expansion of the network in the country and abroad. I would particularly like to praise the activities of HINA which have joined Croatia's efforts to join the European Union so that their activity towards sending information to the European Union and, in general, abroad is very important. We can say that in this field they have done much not only on their websites but also on specific programmes in which they give daily selection of certain news from the policy area, from the field of economy, science, education, etc. which is, of course, an objective picture of Croatia in the world, and this international service sends 50 of such news every day. And a business service that sends 30 business news from the areas of finance, banking, stock exchanges, public auctions, statistical indicators and all that needs to be provided by Croatia abroad. And I don't want to be any longer. Financial business is also commendable. We can see that in this balance between income from the state budget and income from its own activity, this second one is growing much faster. Therefore, during this period HINA had 2% higher revenues from the state budget and 4% higher revenues from its own activities, indicating a very good organisation and productivity. But of course, if we want HINA to meet its next task, and these are the plans in the field of information, plans with the introduction of new services such as SMS news, plans to expand the network, then definitely the founder must take that into account in the next budget. And with all these praises, I could also say that the plan may, not perhaps but certainly in the near future, include a correspondence network for Croats in other countries, for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because unfortunately it does not go objective enough in this direction, and HINA's information is not going enough objective information as often as it disinforms Croats abroad and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but rather informs them. For all these praises that have been given here, of course, I personally feel that this report should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20644	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would just briefly refer to the very end of the presentation of fellow Hebrang when he spoke about the importance, i.e. the role of HINA in the mutual information of the Croatian public in Croatia, about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and also Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. It was about those who are in distant emigration to Croatian national minorities in European countries or Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So on our Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, we discussed this report and we supported it, and I am also stressing here the present representatives of HINA, or the director, please continue to insist on this expansion of the network. So, which will actually contribute to better information, to the mutual better information of the Croatian state, Croatian people in Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which is actually the prerequisite of any other contact, any other activity regardless of scientific, economic, cultural, educational, sports, etc. So it is very important that you emphasize that you will put some of your services at your disposal if you need small money, or free Croatian institutions in the world. It is therefore very important that the institutions there such as numerous Croatian radios be in constant contact with you, i.e. to be those who will use your information, i.e. to be in both directions. So, once again, my absolute support to you, to HINA, and in this sense in which I spoke, so I expect to do a good job in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20646	Thank you. Is there anything the director of HINA would like to say to you? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20647	Fifteenth, Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA from 1 May 2007 to 30 April 2008. Carrier of the Administrative Council of HINE. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in accordance with the proposal with the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads, the annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINE from 1 May 2007 to 30 April 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by the majority of 102 votes in favour and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20648	We're going to the next point of 13th. Report on the work for 2007 of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia Carrier: National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia Based on Article 13(6). Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 298, 21.7.2013, p. 1). The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Council of Science, the Government, delivered an opinion divided into benches. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Representative of the Proposer, President of the Science Council, Prof. Dr. Kresimir Pavelic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20649	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will briefly report on the work in 2007. A comprehensive report is written and shared. I would just like to say that I received the President's post in early April 2007 and I tried to make a turn in the work of the Council, although in the Council, a large part of the Council's work concerns issues that are not strategic and I think that should be changed in the future. I have sought to make sure that the Council is really dealing with strategic matters in Croatian science and in some way that our activities are aimed at harmonising the system of science in line with those that rule in the most developed scientific environments, means Europe and the United States. And in that context, we started discussions that I think are really strategic. These are the new system of funding science and scientific projects, above all. A new system of reviewers. A new system of funding for scientific recruits. You'll get that job. He was finished in 2008 in the report. Updating the Regulation on the systematicisation of the area. It's a job that's far from finished, but it was one fire measure that we had to do in order to be able to promote a doctor of science in line with approved studies for the past year. However, the work on that rule shows all the complexity of our academic community, and we will probably have to find solutions that are suitable for Europe. Then the establishment of new financing of capital equipment, a debate on the formation of national institutes, assuming that Croatia has too many public institutes and that there should be some procedures. We have concrete suggestions but they are not of course in this report because they are still being worked on. And what I think is very important, and I'm going to end this opening part. This is the evaluation of scientific institutions. The evaluation of scientific institutions is something new to which our scientists and our academic community are not used to and even there was resistance. But here it goes, and I think it's going pretty well. I wouldn't last any longer with this oral report of mys. I think that despite the great resistance of the consensus in Croatia, yesterday we saw it in a debate at the university, that the system must change and so to say europeanise. We have excellent support from the Ministry of Science for now, because the Ministry of Science is not involved in the work of the National Council and is ready to accept solutions and here we hope to succeed in this work in the next period ahead. I must say that the composition of the National Council is changing next year and half of the members will be new. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20650	Thank you. President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20651	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed it at the 6th session on 20 June 2008. Report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia on 25 May 2008. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant for the report. The report shall provide a review of the implementation in 2007 of the National Science Council entrusted to that body by the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. This is primarily the task of evaluating the quality of scientific institutions and organisations, establishing scientific and artistic areas, fields and branches, and determining the conditions and participation in the acquisition of scientific titles, as well as giving an opinion on scientific projects at the request of the financier. In addition to these operational, the National Council for Science has a difficult task of discussing and identifying views on matters of importance for scientific activity, and all for the purpose of proposing measures and incentives for its promotion. The National Science Council is defined by law as a professional and advisory body that provides for the development and quality of the entire scientific activities and systems of science in the Republic of Croatia. Some of these tasks are carried out in cooperation with the National Council for Higher Education, and in the first place these two bodies jointly propose the distribution of financial resources provided for in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. These other activities of the National Science Council have been systematically and documented in the report on work for 2007, and all the organisational forms developed by the National Science Council in recent years have been presented in order to be able to fulfil their tasks, hence the regional scientific councils for individual scientific and artistic areas, parent committees, evaluation teams for the financing of scientific projects and expert committees for the resolution of individual tasks. The report, as well as the debate on it, paid particular attention to the fact that the funding that the source of the state budget has focused more on excellence, but also on larger amounts, and that scientific research projects differ from projects that are outside the scope of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. The reports, as well as the debate that the team was led, also paid particular attention to the situation, number and stimulation of scientific recruits. Participants pointed to some, in their opinion, still issues on the occasion of the identification of scientific and artistic areas, fields and branches, which is also the authority of the National Council for Science and is a prerequisite for the evaluation of individuals and organisations in scientific activity. At the invitation of the President of the National Council for Science to take on a more active role that would not only take place to consider the annual reports on the work of the National Council for Higher Education, the members of the Committee agreed, we will soon realise, with such a need, but also that cooperation with this committee remains at the level of... strategic issues, not operational tasks that belong clearly to the executive bodies of the state authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Representatives of the National Council for Science have been invited, among other things, to approach some of the tasks they carry out together with the National Council for Higher Education, such as the issue of participation in the constitution of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, in order to deprive the process of any concerns about the legality in the choice in a case-by-case. After the debate was held, most votes, 5 for and 3 abstentions were reached: the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the 2007 report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20652	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20653	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. We've had a very extensive, and for moments and quite a sharp discussion on the board, and that's part of the report you see, and I'd like to remind you of some other elements. So science is of strategic importance to us, especially to us is a significant body, a strategic body, it is the National Science Council which, as is said, is the most professional body that cares about the development and quality of the entire scientific activity in the country. The body, in our court, intends to take appropriate steps and prepares to take appropriate strategic steps, but is still far from it. We think that, in any case, a strategic step is a matter of state budget, way and quality, but also of the amount and quantity of funding of science and technology. In the last three years, that amount has been dropping, it's shrinking. It decreases both at the level of the state budget, and it also decreases at the level of private investment in scientific research and it is worrying data. This is a worrying information for every country that is going to develop, it is a worrying data for the entire scientific and research activity and we expected or should expect that the National Council warns about this deficit and that it actually points to the needs of an urgent and perhaps significant change in this way of funding and the way of service. Secondly, with the National Council for Science there is also something called nothing less in Croatia than a Renaissance acronym OF KNOW. A KNEW is something that is abbreviations for the Strategic Council for Science and Technology, which was founded at the government's meeting in 6 months 2006, and the president of the council is himself. Nowhere could we find information about how you know everything works and whether it works at all, we haven't found any attempt to know everything and the National Science Council is coordinating, and it seems to us that this most important body has to take care of those bodies that want to coordinate science and manage it in the country. The third activity we certainly consider strategic is an important link between science, so scientific research activities and high educational activities. In this regard, we are very sorry that the National Council for Science did not continue the almost prepared procedure for the reintegration of scientific institutes into universities, which on the one hand the scientific institutes would have their... in this wide area and universities would get new teachers, and new spaces and new equipment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I remind you that Croatia has 30 public institutes of 4.5 million inhabitants. And that step must be taken when, as soon as possible, the better. Finally, new scientific research projects were approved in 2007. The national council has not said anything about this either, although in the approval of scientific research projects there were major difficulties and formal legal difficulties, because scientific research projects were approved so that in a number of cases, members who assessed projects accidentally granted themselves priority positions. And secondly, for scientific researchers, projects have in some cases been granted such an amount that it cannot even cover the costs of carrying out projected tasks in the project. So, and here we expected the National Council to be set up differently and finally there is another dimension, and this is that in the last 15, 18 months hardly any project has been approved, and we seek the knowledge society. We strive for knowledge society, science progresses with big and fast steps, and if we approve a very small amount of projects within 15 or 18 months then it also worries, and the strategic body should take care of that. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, two more notes. The National Council for Science also has an obligation to worry about the area that comes from this science, which is higher education. Therefore, in its normative provisions, this body has prescribed that at least once a year those two bodies meet. And when they met, they failed to comply with their legal obligations, which was already part of the report. On the one hand, they did not propose the distribution of the state budget, which is their legal obligation. I will also quote in particular the article, which is Article 8(1), Section 1 and has finally not proposed the Ethics Committee as required by Article 8, Section 1, Subsection 6, and which were mandatory. I remind you, we've discussed this before. And finally, as mentioned, and in my court perhaps not clearly enough. At the committee meeting on the National Science Council report, we also received what was called the Proposal for division, so on to scientific areas, fields and branches. Regulation on division into areas, fields and branches. That rule is quite substitial, and not by very gentle words accompanied by the board's session, and that rule is not accepted, but by the end of the year, the National Science Council was given the task of not only by the end of the year but by the end of the year 15. 12. So until the date we're working on a new proposal for a division rule. Mr. President somehow forgot to mention, he simply kept us quiet that on the date that we had a board session, actually in "The People's Newspaper" he printed that same rule we refused. And we actually find that unacceptable. So, in one word, we are not informed that it will be published or that it is some final act, but that the rule is printed after or the same day after the session of our committee and we find it totally unacceptable and incorrect. However, I have just received notice so half an hour before the start of this session, from the chairman of the board, that on two memos sent by the board president to the National Science Council on how this text was published, we have not received an answer which we also consider incorrect and non-business is the National Science Council reminding you of the Assembly Body. These are the key reasons why the SDP cannot support this report, although we also want the National Council for Science, but we also want all of us to make this council work much better, because we hope that this will promote Croatian science, and hopefully also produce that based on science, especially in something in which we are full of mouths, which is a knowledge society or science-based economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20654	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we still have two clubs and four MPs, so maybe in order to finish by 1:00 when the vote is scheduled to bring this timer into those borders. HDZ representative club Mr. Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20655	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the National Council of Science, Madam Representatives, MPs. I will respect this statement by the Vice-President because I really want to say about the time on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club that we accept this report by the National Council for Science for the reason that it is most recently referred to as the Croatian scientific system directs it towards European and raises it to a higher quality. This is a fact that you can read from the first to the last page, which is a fact that comes out of what was done during 2007 without respecting what was in 2008 where some new results might be added. Of course there are certain difficulties. It's logical when one system like this and let's remember what kind of situation Croatian science has been living in over the last decades. I will only say by following what the report stated that the National Science Council acted under the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and that the National Council for Science is a professional and advisory body that cares for the development and quality of the entire scientific activity. That's what it did in its nature. And especially what is important for Croatian science is the approximation of both teaching activities and higher education, so that the National Science Council should also be observed through the work of the National Council for Higher Education and this co-ordination creates a complete picture of this area. I also want to say that what has been treated at sessions and what has been done in this area in any case completes and notices the scientific situation. Therefore, discussions on a new system of scientific and research projects have started, work has been continued to evaluate the quality and effectiveness of scientific and professional work of scientific organisations, criteria have been developed for the selection of scientific recruits, some members of the parent committees and the regional scientific councils, the selection committees for scientific calls have been appointed, the statutes of public scientific institutes on which consent has been sought from the National Science Council, and a number of other activities I would also like to say a little closer. The new system of funding research projects is extremely important. Of course, there were difficulties and it's not easy to shape up to the end, but we've got new parameters for it. Total funding for scientific research projects has been increased. Projects that are not scientific but are important for the development of individual professions in the Republic of Croatia will be left to other ministries. They also rationalise the number of scientific projects. Also, some new projects are being introduced, new projects have been proposed for young researchers with a PhD who want to start their own research group. Also, co-operation projects and national projects financed by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports with other ministries and economic operators establish pre-calls and calls for scientific projects, etc. It also seems particularly important to me to note that I keep what was continued in 2008, and the National Science Council is working on a new system of funding scientific projects, a new system of reviews, a new system of funding for scientific recruits, a regulation on the systematicisation of areas, fields and groups and its alignment with similar documents in developed countries. Here, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, I will also say our views that will complete the picture, then discuss the formation of national institutes, the evaluation of scientific institutions, the evaluation of scientific projects, the evaluation of scientific organisations. Thus, the National Science Council also worked in 2008. It seems to me that, given that science is expected to support the education and quality of Croatian society, I feel it is necessary to continue working on these content. And I will say something on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club on the Regulation on Scientific and Art Areas, Fields and Branches. Because we need to be aware that some fields are not until the end of the definition. It's a question of education. I think that we also agree with the SDP club that we should develop this field, especially in the context of interdisciplinary humanities, interdisciplinary social sciences, interdisciplinary natural sciences or interdisciplinary study of education, because above all, the question of the methodology that enters all areas and is not defined. And it seems to me what I want to say today in this debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club that this is one area that needs to be complemented by the education system. Why? Because Croatia has defined itself as most European countries that education belongs to a university study. We have not only a graduate but also a postgraduate study, and now there are various problems in this area about progress, about evaluation, about mixing fields with social, humanistic areas, and I think this is the space to realize this issue in the next period. And that seems to be one development topic. It's not some critical topic to be invented. We just have to apply our experiences and coordinate with European experiences if I may say so because when we enter the depths of this matter then we know that pedagogy or some area of psychology cannot cover the issue of methodology, the issue of interdisciplinary in education, and I expect that the Croatian scientific public will know it along with the scientific National Science Council to the end. And finally, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I want to point out for all these reasons that we accept and support the National Science Council Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20656	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20657	Kola Šetić, as much as you speak and you and I want the funding for research projects to increase our numbers and state budget. I remind you, therefore, that for Project A6 2203, therefore the programmes and projects of scientific and research activities were reduced by the government's decision from 153 million kuna to 136 million kuna, as well as for example the activities of promoting scientific excellence that by the Government's decision the funds of 5.5 million kuna were reduced to 3 million and 100 thousand. So as much as you talk about increasing resources for scientific research projects, and you and I want it to really happen, it just doesn't happen, and it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20658	Club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20659	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the National Council, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I will, at the request of our vice president, significantly shorten my exposure. And in the follow-up to this story about Croatia as a knowledge society, I would just like to add to what my colleague in front of the HDZ Club has said, and thus, I would have little complemented it that the Croatian scientific system has been moving towards the European scientific system not for the last two, three years, but for the last 25 years, publications have been respected, tertiary publications which state, citation, criteria for advancement in scientific teaching, etc., these are shifts that have already been respected and slightly changed and improved for years. The question is just how much government was able to actually speed up this process, and that's what this is about. That's why Mr. Flego has the full right to state the shortcomings we want to try to correct in the next period. Here's a colleague and a colleague, perhaps one of the best examples, a practical example. 7. Last month, the highest awards for science were awarded in the Croatian Parliament. I'd ask you, now that you've done a survey, do either of you know how to name at least one man who got the most award for science in Croatia a month ago? There were 13 annual awards. So the people who made the biggest step in their area. Most contributed to European science, Croatian science is connected to European and global people, people we can count on. I believe at least 80% of you wouldn't know any names. And do you know why colleagues and colleagues? On the second day after these awards were distributed, no note with their names, no television, no radio station mentioned that the highest awards for science were awarded. It's a general shame. Go on. One of the winners is M.S. That person, 38 years old, won a state award for the area that and that. The colleague was therefore assessed by the evaluation court as the best in the area so that 10 months earlier the commission that decided on the quality of the projects she reported her project with almost the same works published in the world’s best magazines would assess as a worse project and be funded with only 70,000 kuna. I looked around a little bit, and I asked who was in the grade court? Among other people who never had their own project. Never your own project. They don't have a project now, and they're evaluating other people's projects. It can't be. It can't be. In the follow-up to that story Professor Flego told. We received a report from the European Commission a week ago on the Republic of Croatia's allocations to science and research. Over the past six years, we've fallen from 1.1% of GDP to 0.87. We fall, fall, fall, fall. And according to the Bologna Process, we made a commitment to single out as much as 3% by the age of ten. I admit that many other European countries do not. The European Union average is around 2%, Scandinavian countries alone above 3%, but we have to be at 0.87%, and we really don't have to be. The last thing I want to say is that really time is running out and it's right from the vice president that he wants you all to have the opportunity to speak is a triangle, a famous triangle between science, economy and higher education. That triangle doesn't exist. There's no coordination. Thanks to Professor Selem, we organized a round table. We'll present those conclusions and the minister soon. We hope there will be a major shift here, because indeed for whom do we educate the staff if not for the economy? Who are researchers if not for the shift of the quality of life in our country? There have never been more priority areas of research in Croatia. Shouldn't agriculture be one of them, for example? Or in the field of some technical sciences and so on and so on. When I worked as a young scientist in France many years ago, the minister said, "In my term there will be three priority areas." It was a long time ago, so it was fibrooptic fibers, semiconductors, genetic engineering. They knew exactly what France needed, and in what direction they clearly wanted to help their economy. That's what Croatia needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20660	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20661	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed President of the National Council, I feel a personal need and in some way responsibility for this House to discuss this topic in a different way than my predecessors did and in some way to meet you all MPs and MPs who may not even be engaged in so many topics of science and education about something that seems to me to be precedentd in our Croatian parliamentary practice. For the introduction of the National Council for Science together as well as the National Council for Higher Education, the bodies are set up by the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, the national bodies that correspond to the Croatian Assembly for their work, which is chosen by the Croatian Assembly and which, in fact, through their work, I must say, in this way unite the entire state science policy, i.e. this second Council for Higher Education. It is also an obligation for the country to report to the Croatian Parliament every year to the National Council, and this is exactly what we are discussing now. We discussed this report on 20 June of this year on the parent board, and among other things, my predecessors also discussed this report on the proposal for a Regulation on scientific and artistic areas, fields and branches. At that time, as representatives and advocates, we presented some of our comments and reflections on certain solutions set out in this proposal for a regulation, and we were then given an explanation by the President of the National Council that it was actually only a proposal for a document that had yet to pass a broad public debate both at the university and in any wider social community. I remember then, and I was quite soft to say so about certain things, the board president then even interrupted me and said, "It's not about our thinking, it's about the conclusions of the Education Committee of the Croatian Parliament." What happened was the fact that the next day after the meeting of the Committee or two days after that, or a few days after that, the regulation was published in the National Journal as the final document. Just a few days before that, the President of the National Council told us that it was a proposal and a working text which will still be discussed in response to our remarks. I don't know what it's called but lying to the parent board and bringing in some way the delusion of all MPs and MPs in Croatia, MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the committee, the president of our committee sent a letter to the National Council to show himself about it. So it's somewhere before summer. To this day the answer to that letter has not arrived. And I am now interested in whether there is a National Council formed as a national body, as a roof body, which together with us should in some way create a scientific policy in the Republic of Croatia, why should it then completely ignore the views of the Croatian Parliament despite the public being called to work together on some kind of projects? Or I would like to finally get an answer to the question why, in some ways, something that has been interpreted as a working proposal at the Education Committee's meeting took place in the National Journal in a few days as the official document I repeat has, some colleagues have talked about it before, and I am not going to talk about concrete things and remarks on that rule has a number of problems. I think it is at least correct to get an explanation, i.e. the answer to this question, and on the other hand, I would like to ask the National Council for Science in some way that the work and function that should be carried out in accordance with the law and in accordance with some way with the discussions and tasks that they receive here in the Croatian Parliament are correctly and in the sense that the best for Croatian science is achieved. Otherwise, I think that we can then question the decisions of the National Council for Science as well as all that the National Council is doing, and that is not a scenario that I would personally like to see and personally wish to testify to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20662	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20663	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I really cut the debate short for a few minutes. Let's just go through some comparisons today in the European Union and Croatia. Science in Europe is definitely addressed to international interdisciplinary collaboration projects, where partners are from this triangle of science, higher education and private sector where all have their own clear role in which the state also has a clear vision. Some countries when they are in play, projects financed by the Science Funds go so far as to give one to one co-financing of the project, i.e. how much is taken from the 7th Framework Research Programme so much in the same amount as the state. And as we heard, we have countries that invest more than 3% of their GDP in science and research. This year, 2008. Europe for the first time has reached the United States, for example, in investment in innovation. Last year 7.4 now 8.8 while the U.S. dropped from 13 to 8%. This can also be seen in increasing the number of people who work in science and higher education. Half a million scientists and one and a half million teachers at 4,000 universities and institutes in the European Union, with a maximum investment in natural and technical sciences as well as the future. In Croatia the big problem is already with the number of scientists. We need a lot more. We had up until a few years ago and a great debate as many scientists as Croatia has at all. One said statistics, one Ministry of Science, the third we saw in the OECD report. But a much bigger problem is our scientific projects. The Republic of Croatia has a large number of small fragmented projects that are heavy under quotes of about 5,000 euros each. True science, the right scientific research from which the Republic of Croatia benefits its economy, is not below half a million euros for its social development. And for European norms, for example one FP7 Croatian scientific projects are funny, really funny. Today, institutes when they want to go to major projects are in trouble that they can't find enough money to participate in the same projects, and the Ministry of Science doesn't have any money. Recently, a colleague of mine had to travel around Europe on his own cost to arrange for the entry of an institute into a consortium for a joint project, and still not known how to co-finance it. Furthermore, rather than investing more money in projects financed from the framework research programme, the amount is equally ridiculous. When you look at the budget of the Republic of Croatia, the amounts given for FP6 and FP 7 projects are really miserable. Far from any one co-financing, and the amount of money for scientific projects in Croatia falls further. All of this is to suggest that innovation in Croatia in science as Brussels itself recently said too few countries participate. Most of the companies are in the hands of large companies, and that amount to make some progress in Croatia must be at least 30%. Without concrete investment in innovation, without a concrete investment in large EU projects, international, collaborative projects will not be a transfer of knowledge properly. It means transfer of knowledge, research projects and skills to the economy. And until this comes to pass, any story from the Government of Croatia about the knowledge economy and the knowledge society will remain an empty flossule. There's so much about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20664	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Science Council, Professor Dr Krešimir Pavelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20665	I'll just briefly comment on some of the statements. I'd like to commend what my young colleague said, because that's exactly how the National Council works. Namely, we're discussing the 2007 Report. Everything Mr. Flego and the others said was actually a large part already done in the Council, but we are now talking about the report a year earlier. Ms. Young Representative Lugaric, it is not true that I said that it was a work proposal. I said that the whole job was a work proposal and that we're now saving the situation where we're pressed from the university to make a quick regulation so that people who wanted to go out on the streets could be promoted to Doctors of Science. So, we did something that was necessary, and I told you right away, so at that session that we're going to do it at the same time, I did do it and start doing it on a new proposal that is the only possible solution for me, and that is the proposal of the new Rascata that the European Union has done. However, I will immediately warn you that our academic community because I have sent this proposal to everyone is completely unprepared to accept it and we need to look at things the way they are. So we're going to be very hard to get out of this problem. I'll be at the next board meeting, I've talked to Mr. President a few solutions and we'll hopefully get out of that situation. But I warn you that before me, the National Council has failed to solve this problem. They didn't even put him in public. So they didn't want to solve it. Therefore, let us not fear that we will not do so. I would very briefly comment on what Mr. Flego said was very critical I must admit. We're talking, and I'm glad to talk to you. However, I would like to say that everything you said is de facto in favor of the fact that we have to ask ourselves whether we need to have two councils. You also know well my position on the reintegration of universities into, the Institute of Universitys and we as the National Council will support and make a concrete proposal in this regard. It is not true that we are not working in cooperation with the National Higher Education Council. We have joint regular sessions, but you still have to bear in mind that there is a difference in access to work between the two councils, that the National Council for Higher Education and Higher Education is burdened with daily study approval jobs and it is essentially engaged in this. Therefore, it seems to me that the way out will either be in the integration of the council or in some other approach. Finally, a brief comment on the funds which, of course, alarmed the Ministry on several occasions about the project situation and I am sorry that we cannot now discuss 2008 when we gave very good solutions to a new project structure that is truly complementary to the European system and perhaps we will have a report for 2008 earlier and we will talk about it in time. But when we're talking about it and I'm going to end it, we need to know that there are not only the Ministry's funds, but there are other sources for funding, these are UHF projects, BICRO, HIT, etc. There is also a significant share of Croatian scientists in F6 and F7 projects. So what may be most significant is that the National Council has started a debate that I think has brought fruit and you will get this in the following report, that the funds have been proposed, so that the funding from the Research Ministry is transferred to the National Foundation. So it seems to me that, and this is my message, in fact, to you who are rightly critical, that it would be good to work together more on the system than to criticize ourselves, because I think we need to find a common language right now and that in this case Croatia is going in the right direction. It's my personal, my personal attitude. Just in the end, Mr. Doric gave a good message. The issue of scientific information is very difficult to resolve. On several occasions, the National Council has tried to address this problem, but we have to face the fact that science is not interesting except when it comes to affairs and unfortunately I don't know how to solve it, but we're going to try to make a meeting with the public information people. I don't know, maybe I forgot something, but here's what you think if you think I still need to answer something, I'd be happy to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20666	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20667	Mr. President, very short. These provisions on the maintenance of order and restrictive measures that mainly apply to MPs, but could be applied to each speaker not only for political reasons, so they are injured, but I pray that it prevents it from happening not only for the sake of political correctness but also for its own application of the new Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. Mr. Mondekar is Mr. Mondekar, he's a young gentleman. So is Mrs. Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20668	Thank you. When someone called me young sir, I would consider it a great compliment. So is Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20669	Mr. President, I'd be giving up this injury right now if it weren't for your reaction, but I'm calling myself if there's nothing else in general that's been said about the general rights and duties of the MPs by which I don't think we're different here for years. And those who come to this assembly to defend some reports, acts, suggestions or something else, I don't think we should forget that they are in the Croatian Assembly and not at the university or elsewhere, here are gentlemen and ladies representatives regardless of the year or I don't know what else. And Mr. President, I would ask you, we as a Parliament have still reached some standards, and sometimes, you have passed laws, and sometimes it seems you need those who come here to warn you, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20670	Thank you very much. My reaction is Mrs. Natural, I wanted someone to call me that. But let's not be too sensitive, I beg you. We all have some, sometimes we're satisfied, sometimes we're dissatisfied with how we treat ourselves, but let's be broad. And Mario Habek, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20671	Well, actually, I was going to point out the same thing that hurt this article 214 that the government's representative hurt, but maybe to him, maybe it's not that important, maybe the irrelevant fact is we're some little gentleman, but we're all the same here, and he wouldn't like it if I or any of our colleagues called him an old gentleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20672	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20673	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Three incorrect allegations I'd correct, although there seems to be more. It is not true that the rulebook has been discussed as something that will later be done and repaired, but it is true that the committee discussed the rulebook as something further unusable, so the National Science Council was given the task of making a new one by the end of the 12th month. Secondly, it is not true that the situation is changed by the use of other funds in the financing of science but is exactly what I said, unfortunately for you and for me, exactly what I have said that the last three years investment in science has been saying, and especially from private sources. And thirdly, you know, it seems to me that Parliament and the National Council are working closely and we've concluded that we're going to have some thematic sessions. We're very happy to hear your arguments, but about what you're going to do, this body decides whose body you're just an organ.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20674	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting in conclusion in accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: "The report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. a year." Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? This report was accepted by the majority by 73 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 29 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20677	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 23rd session held on 21 November 2008, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament, Šimo Đurđević, is dismissed. And secondly, Berislav Roncevic is elected as a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20678	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes with 86 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 1 against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20679	The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Assembly held at the 23rd session held on 21 November 2008 unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament is elected Šimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20680	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The committee's proposal was accepted by a majority of 82 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20681	At the 23rd session held on 21 November 2008, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament. Berislav Rončević is elected as a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20682	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The committee's proposal was accepted by a majority vote with 77 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 2 against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this concludes the vote. On Wednesday 26th, we will continue with a session with the agenda item Report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2007, the applicant of the National Council, etc., and then the Annual Report of the National Foundation for Science. Have a nice holiday this weekend. Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic, chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs in the selection of appointments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20684	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 24th session of December with 7 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the Elections and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Committee for Decision-making in the conflict of interest. As a member of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, he is appointed from the ranks of prominent public employees, professor of science Ivan Tanta.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20685	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This proposal by the Elections Committee was adopted by a majority of votes, 83 votes in favour and 20 abstentions. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20686	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 24th session held on 5 December 2008 with 7 votes for and 3 abstentions set out a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the University Council of Zagreb. As a member of the University Council of the University of Zagreb, she is named professor of science Vida Demarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20687	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that the committee's proposal has been accepted by 92 votes in favour, 3 against and 7 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we proceed with a meeting of the Parliament Tuesday at 9.30 p.m. with that item of the agenda that we temporarily interrupted and with the MPs that I've already read. I expect that the 2009 National Budget Proposal will be submitted to the boxes tomorrow. Thank you very much, very much. Final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act. Sorry, we have another proposal that was warned by Mrs. President of the Committee on Elections and Appointments, Ms. Nevenka Majedenic. Proposal for a decision to appoint presidents and board members for the "Faust Vrancic" award. There's no point in waiting for a month, two days. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20689	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues. On 12 December 2008, the Committee for the Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a Decision appointing the president and members of the Committee for the award of the "Faust Vrancic" award. First, the award committee Faust Vrančić is named President Ante Markotic, as members Igor Catic, Tonko Curko, Alan Labus, Ivica Lovrić and Bernardin Peroš.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-21-0.u20690	Do we have a quorum? Because if we don't have a quorum, we won't vote. 88. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. ... 79 votes. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So, I'm opening a debate. And I'm closing the debate. I propose a selection and appointment committee to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Restraint? Two. With 77 per, 2 abstentions, the Committee's proposal for selection and appointments was accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're moving on with the session. And we're moving on to the agenda. - Report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2007. Year: The National Council for Higher Education of the Republic of Croatia submitted this report on the basis of Article 13. Law on scientific activity and higher education. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Mr. Professor Frano Parac is the president of the National Council for Higher Education. Here you go.
