ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17777	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, on this occasion, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would like to show my deep condolences to the Hodak family for this tragic event, the murder of their daughter. And I want to at the same time demonstrate the determination of all state authorities, and I come from the National Security Council session, in dealing with organised crime, with the mafia or whatever it is we want or someone calls it. At this session of the National Security Council, we have come up with several proposals that we will implement in the coming weeks and months. But first of all, let me say that at the beginning, at this very beginning of the session, I would like to say that we are decisions on the replacement within the ministries and even within one ministry and more shifts, within the security service as well, but in the wake of the events, since we have proposed so far the SOA Director for Home Affairs, that the President of the Republic and I have agreed, in accordance with our constitutional powers, that the new SOA director be Mr Buljevic's current assistant. And it will go through its regular procedure. We signed the proposal. I would like to inform the public that we have signed the proposal that will first go to the parliamentary committee that is considering this and then we will make a final decision. It's about SOA. We are proposing the current director of SOA, Mr Tomislav Karamark, as Director of Police. I have made public the wish and future minister, if the Parliament today and I call on you, if it votes with confidence and my wish is to be Mr. Vladimir Faber, but of course we will respect the tender procedure. And we're thinking about it, and I'm going to report it here, and we're thinking whether or not we can, maybe even in the meantime while the competition is going on, we're going to use an institute or an acting officer or a temporary police director. All of this to give full support to the investigation and all of our actions, our investigative actions. When I was talking about these measures around the so-called. The working name of the anti-mafia package, I want to announce here a special law, whether it's special or if we're going to include it in another, we're going to decide on that. But a law that will allow all convicts to take a DNA sample and create one DNA bank that would then change with other countries, and already that practice in the police exists, but not for convicts. Not for convicts. So that would be something new in practice. Without the convict's consent, you'd take a DNA sample and put it in the DNA database and molecular genetic analysis. Secondly, since through the action of the repressive apparatus we cannot deal with organised crime, the mafia or all other forms of crime if the complete system does not work, it means that we must strengthen both the judiciary and that was also the reason for the new minister's proposal, we have decided before today, I have informed the Council of National Security, the report and the Croatian Parliament of the Political Decision that we have made after all that is preceded by today's procedure of appointment of judges, that we are looking before the appointment of judges even the introduction of the Judiciary Academy. It's so-called. An ex-Italian model, a French Italian model in which, after completing the law school, we have three more years of jurisprudence and judicial exams and we are going to the concrete realization of this project. We also want to strengthen the so-called. Jumping courts, it's a termicus technicus used in both the state's attorney's office and the police, we heard it today at the National Security Council. This means when USKOK, when police catch this part of why they are therefore for corruption and organised crime, there are on each of these great courts Zagreb, Split, Osijek, Rijeka, that there are specialised judges who will immediately win the case. And that's something we'll keep working on. We also want to strengthen financial institutions, i.e. the Ministry of Finance through stronger intensive work and tax administrations and customs administrations and financial police, and to strengthen the artificial service, and especially what the Ministry of Finance is working on is the preparation of an overall state apparatus for the application of the Law on Personal Identification Number, which we will contain and the collapse of black money, but also many things that may not be catchable today. And in this sense, I would also like to suggest that today, in the Croatian Parliament, the confidence of the new ministers is also voted out. We've heard a lot about these new ministers, or suggestions for the new ministers these past few days, and I'm going to say that I know both of them very well from work in the early '90s. Both put themselves in the service of the Homeland when it was most difficult, not belonging to different parties. It is about experts who have shown themselves in several areas so far and because of the Croatian public that it is about people who have gained a reputation in their work so far, who have gained experience and from the public, the parliamentary representatives have their life on their cups, I will read short professional careers, not other data, because of the Croatian public. Professor Shimonović 2006-2008 Rector of the University of Zagreb, 2005–2006. prodecan of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb and Head of the Department of General Theory of Law and State of Law, 2005–08. The fourth Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, 2002, 2003, President of the Economic Social Council of the United Nations USKOK, representative of the Republic of Croatia at the International Court of Justice in The Hague, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Croatia to the United Nations in New York, '96, '97. Deputy Foreign Minister, '94, 96. Assistant Foreign Minister, '92. and '93. Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, etc. So it's about a man who has been involved in the creation of the state since the beginning, first of all in the diplomatic plan to structure the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, later and as a representative of Croatia in the United Nations and at the International Court of Justice in the Den Hague. Tomislav Karamarko Director of Security Intelligence, 2004, sixth director of the anti-intelligence agency, before that, was head of the Office for National Security, adviser to the President of the Republic of National Security, Assistant Minister of Interior, Head of the Police Administration of Zagreb, etc., head of the cabinet of President-in-Office of the Parliament at the time of President-in-Office Franjo Gregoric, head of cabinet of the war government, also Manolic, before that, the state archive, historian. It's about people who have proven themselves, who have proven their high professionalism in everything they've done. And those were the main reasons to propose them for the new ministers. I am convinced that, with the necessary changes, even the shifts, if needed in certain resolutions, they will do their job well. And that is why we propose to the Croatian Parliament to give them confidence today. Otherwise, in the Croatian Government, we are prepared to discuss every topic, so on the subject of security, what will be and what should be done in these resolutions, so in advance, I say that we accept the conclusion of several clubs that have proposed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia report within 30 days on planned strategies in the work of the Ministry of Justice, Home Affairs, and on the measures taken to reorganise the consolidation of these ministries in the fight against organised crime and corruption, as well as improving the physical and legal security of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is also a job that ministers should do and will certainly have the entire government and all of them at their disposal, because it is not just about these cases, it is not just about the current case, it is about a few others. But in order not to create the wrong impression, I purposely left statistical data for the end of this opening presentation. It is important that we have a complete picture of the state of security in the country and the activity of the repressive apparatus, including the judiciary as a whole, and I ask that in no case be brought into conformity to seek an alibi or something with the current situation. But it is important to know that at present, thousands and 31 people have been charged before Croatian courts. Of which 209 for corruption and 882 for organised crime. A thousand 31 people have been indicted in court and another 409 judicial investigations. So, so much for the operation of the apparatus as a whole, but of course we're not satisfied and we can't be satisfied. It's just statistical data, to be known and to bear in mind that fighting organised crime and corruption is an absolute struggle that goes on. And we want to be very clear here, and this is how I end this opening speech in the Croatian Parliament in this House of Commons, asking for confidence for new ministers, ladies and gentlemen very clearly to say: the fight against organised crime and the mafia goes on and we will not stop until we end up rooting it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17778	I thank the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening a debate and I suggest that in the debate, preferably it would be best if we agreed to speak to the representatives of the clubs. Since the president, that proposal for a vote of confidence was included in the agenda today, that it would be the fastest business procedure possible to be discussed before the Croatian Parliament, which I think next week would be most likely to lead the debate on trust exclusively on the issue of trust to the two proposed ministers because we discussed the report from the Ministry of the Interior last week. So I suggest we be rational. Let's discuss clubs and wrap up this item of the agenda today when we continue the session of the Parliament at 9:30 next week. Here's what I suggest we accept. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Lesar, go ahead. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17779	Thank you very much, Mr. President. By estimating your intentions that the session will take a shorter time today, I still have to refer to Article 211. A Rules of Procedure which gives each representative the right to speak and by accepting your proposal would make it impossible to participate in the debate of us advocates who are not in some clubs. Therefore, by referring to Article 211, I seek the possibility of a debate regardless of your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17780	Thank you. When I suggested that it should be on behalf of the clubs, I did not restrict any business rights. In theory, any MP can ask for a word, and he'll get it. So I wanted to, as you yourself said, narrow down the debate as wide as possible. Whoever insists on getting the word past the clubs will get the word. So there's no reason to limit anything and the call to 200, Article 211 is correct. I'm opening up a debate. And the first on behalf of the HNS Club is Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17781	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister with members of the government but above all respected colleagues and colleagues. The murders that have taken place in Croatia have dramatically led us all to the fact that we are in an extremely serious situation. The beatings and the murders that were ordered say there's something wrong with our institutions of justice and police, that they don't work properly. Mafia methods have gone far beyond the bounds of criminal organizations and have become the daily life of our society. We in HNS believe that there is no one in the Croatian Parliament who is not fully aware of the seriousness of this situation and who does not want this situation to change as quickly as possible. An announcement has come from the government on the replacement of interior ministers and justice ministers and has come and announced today and on the benches of the proposal of the persons who should take over those portfolios as well as the announcement of a future proposal from the person who should take over the police department. In view of this information and given these proposals, we at the HNS consider it a step in the right direction. It is our duty as parliamentary representatives and elected representatives of the citizens of this country to have full insight and control over the processes that must stop the wave of violence in the country. Our active participation in these processes requires full information on both the current situation and the strategies and policies planned in these resolutions and on the restructuring and consolidation of these resolutions. We believe that this goes beyond party interests and that it crosses our other differences between us in political attitudes. The Assembly is the only institution that can monitor these processes on behalf of the citizens and is our obligation as parliamentary representatives to actively engage. I won't call and remind myself too much here because I think it's in everyone's vivid memory that last week's debate on the state of security in the country about the report of the then or few other interior ministers about police work. As you remember then, there were quite significant differences in our attitudes. However, I think it is clear to everyone now and clearly that changes are necessary. We are in the opinion of the HNS Club at the crucial moment of our struggle for political and institutional europeanisation of Croatia. Allow me in this place to say a few words from the position of the president of the National Committee. Many have already begun to wonder in this country why the European Union? That's why. So mob methods don't take over our society permanently. So we can help ourselves to experience and the institutions of the European Union that our children are not killed in disco clubs, in the streets and in the halls. So that we can succeed more easily in our common and especially our joint here in this House to kidnap our own country from the plight of organized crime, from the plight of corrupters, from the plight of murderers. To make the citizens of this country its owners again, to become its masters and managers again. And if we fail to achieve that goal, I, which I have surely stood up for our membership in the European Union for many years, do not think that our membership in the European Union makes sense. If we did not achieve that goal, we should not have even begun this process. But in this transformation of our institutions, our strength is crucial, our abilities are crucial and our political will is crucial above all. The European Union can only help there, it can serve as a guideline or a guideline, but we need to keep an eye on the fact that no one can help us if we are not first able to help ourselves. In the opinion of the HNS club, the people proposed by the government as justice ministers and the interior minister are quality people. Professor Ivan Šimonović is one of the most qualified people for this job this country has at all. His résumé and his work so far certainly give way to hope. Mr. Karamarko, based on what we were able to monitor, proved also professional and quality in his work. However, it is not enough to bring new, quality people to the head of these resistors. If it's only a change on top of the cake, it won't be anything from that change. It is important to reorganise and consolidate these ministries and services so that the people we bring to their head today can work successfully and bring these institutions into office. If they are only the towers behind which will stand the misery and resistance of so far's skeletal structures and practices and we and they will regret taking this job. We as a club of HNS are willing to support them, because in our opinion they are for this country compared to what we have so far had a shift to the better. But we're also looking for guarantees that they'll actually be able to do their job. This is no time for partying. There is too much serious situation in the country in our opinion, and that is why we propose, since we believe there is no one who is not aware of it in this House. We propose that all together as Parliament ask new, future ministers if today we also vote on them from the government to present our plans for exit from the current crisis, from the present danger. This should not be an HNS proposal or IDS or SDSS or national minorities or SDP or HDZ. That should be a proposal for all of us together. It is our common task, ours I would say in front of political tasks, before political differences our common interest, our task that crosses the division of positions and opposition. In that sense we proposed and you got on the benches in this House the adoption of a conclusion that I immediately say that if everyone accepts it should take the signature of the HNS Club off it. According to my knowledge and the clubs that also proposed this conclusion, the SDSS club, IDS and national minorities are also ready to download their signatures from the proposal and simply sign all MPs in the Croatian Parliament. It will be our first joint step in the fight against crime and the mafia, a fight that if we don't engage in it together we won't be able to win, a fight in which we believe we have to win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17782	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pusic. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17783	Your Honor, Mr. President, Prime Minister, ministers, gentlemen of the Parliament. So in the first sentence, the IDS' absolute trust is enjoyed both by Mr Karamarko and Mr Shimonovic. What I don't think anyone might yet be aware of is really circumstances in this country and that's what kind of saddens me. The security system if it has ever existed in the Republic of Croatia in the last ten days mainly at the moment of the murder of Mrs Mintas-Hodak's daughter, the former Deputy Prime Minister almost collapsed. It's an open message of organized crime. It's a message to all those who should be involved in it. What I'm going to say in one sentence, two words. We must also be aware of the moment we live. The crisis cannot bypass the Republic of Croatia either. I'm looking at what's going on with CROBEX shares, growth loans, the 2009 tourist season will certainly be harder than 2008. Consumption, i.e. Our purchasing power is getting smaller. 7.8% was lower in the eighth month than last year. Exports are in question, and only Croatian markets can't live. Today I read the news The Council of the Croatian National Bank is just deciding on the release of a limit reserve of $3.7 billion that banks had to store on the risk of credit placements and not to list any further. Where are we now? It can't be said that Croatia is a prisoner of the mafia. That doesn't suit the truth, but in anger, you shouldn't be surprised at citizens who experience things so simply. Which is a Croatian problem, and rightly most citizens feel insecure. Croatia is in some way a hostage, but I almost dare say 18 annual non-actions. If for example 18 years we've tolerated a standoff in the stadiums for home, then why are we surprised what 20,000 people are doing today in Maximir? If you let those who participated in the conversion become pillars of society, and today they have both money and power and the media, so don't think that someone will rule it overnight. If someone hasn't dealt with organized crime for 18 years, and if they touch him in his interests, it's clear that he'll try to deal with those who would somehow try to sanction him. That's one legality, that crime, I dare say in 2008 is stronger than it was in 2003, in 2003 it was stronger than it was in 2000, in 2000 it was stronger than in '90. Where's the solution? It has to work clearly. The exit is long-term, we all know it means that this 18-year-old inaction can't be done in five or six months. The problem cannot only be solved by new ministers, it cannot be solved by new police directors or new people who will arrive within 5, 6 or 7 months. We all know just as Mrs Pusic said just before that challenge could not be met by some existing people, and that is why I am sure that there is no one in this House who has anything, whether against Mr Karamark, anything against Mr Shimonović. In some ways, I would almost dare say that they and people are trusts in some way, perhaps President Mesic, which will say that some President Mesic may have to suffer for a little longer than a year. Personally, all of us, Mr. Karamark and Mr. Shimonovic, experience professionals who may in some way be saving the government itself. However, what is the solution at this point? When we talk about early elections, I can say the following. Of course we're all trying to make a political profit, but in a country affected by a serious security, economic crisis right now, there's no need for chaos. In 2008, I don't think you can run a '68 policy, let's face it, we're looking for the impossible. The election cannot come clearly because nobody will disembark themselves as in Croatia will not even come to the proposal of the President of the IDS, Mr. Jakovcic on the Government of National Unity, but I will discuss it later. I'm not going to say whether or not the elections would suit us, but the elections wouldn't fit, at this point I'm sure neither Istria nor the Republic of Croatia. Why? While the Parliament would disband, and it won't, while new elections are being called, and it won't, while the new government is being established, and I know it won't, in an ideal case it would take about 6, 7, maybe 8 months, and what would that mean for this country? Organized crime would be reorganised, strengthened, Croatia would certainly, as Mrs Pusic said in 2011 as a deadline that could reach entry into the European Union, another 6, 7, 8 months would deal with themselves, not the crisis that is at our borders, and as I read today in a newspaper, and the prime minister himself said that de facto budget size for next year, should de facto remain within the current borders. Secondly, when one America faces a crisis they work together to find a way out of this financial crisis and Congress and the Senate and Republicans and Democrats, they don't go into coalitions, but together they sort of work. When a crisis finds one Ireland, Great Britain, Germany, Italy, Scotland, the solution must also be common. The parties don't go into coalitions, but decisions are kind of common. Around the underworld one word should appear together at this point, and I think these appointments may be able to confirm it. To us in IDS, as I said at this hour, perhaps the government of national unity, not salvation, would be more appropriate, but unity like the one in '92. That everyone loses a little bit to the people who make it, but that the citizens may ultimately profit most from it. But I'm aware that this idea is just like she did first. This is 2008, this isn't '68, so we can't be realistic, looking for impossible. Of course, such an idea should live for a year and then go to the polls, but I said it was fiction as well as early elections. I'll say next. If a meadow or a field isn't plowed or cut for five years, it's clear that it'll heal in a schnapp. If someone doesn't plow or no hair is 18 years old, then the de facto of it will form a forest, or as the Istrians would say. It's also clear that 18-year-old contraction is far more difficult, far longer, far more uncertain. I admit, I'll make that public on every occasion, this government has, for example, solved the Gotovina case. She did not let go but brought General Zagorec, she did not let go but brought Petrac from Greece, she opened a series of cases, but we also know that out of all these big cases, none of these cases were de facto closed in our courts, but we also feel it today as with the Croatian public, the mafia was not launched, but is stronger than ever because in 2008, there is probably, not likely, but certainly more money than it had in 2003, she had more than 2000, as today in 2008, on the streets certainly more drugs, etc. than it was in 2003, 2003 more than in 2000 and not counting any further. It is clear that many will not give the government this payment for consensus, but no one, I did not notice it, but I want to believe it, and once again for the third time, I will repeat that no one in this House has anything against Mrs. Shimonović and Mr. Karamark. So, the real cause of Croatian problems may be deeper, it will not be solved only by this debate or by these appointments or by another debate about the government's trust. I personally expect serious economic problems. I come from Buzet, when some economy works exclusively on world markets, when you have over $6,000 per capita on the 6.5 thousand you have over $100 million in exports, $20 per capita, so when you stop overnight Opel for 14 days, BMW etc. That feels very much in the mood of the citizens, and I would say in one fear and uncertainty what that tomorrow brings to all of us, not to talk about shipbuilding, etc. Because it's simply not a topic at this point, it'll be on Wednesday when it comes to the government's trust. The theme is clear what this appointment means, it's one step forward. Time will show what that step will bring. The most difficult ministries are actually the ones we're talking about today, the MUP, the judiciary, and I dare say, "I won't say, dear mother," but far easier. And only two sentences when it comes to Istria. Where is Istria in all this? We are waiting to solve the case from "Maestra" because of a bomb under the car of a member of the tax economy, the case of Zidarić i.e. Throwing an explosive device at the mayoral head's house in Medulin. It's clear to me that the police can't solve all the cases, but they'll probably be far more active. As much as nothing will likely be from the Government of National Unity, nothing of the early elections, this solution is at this point the least problematic and I said if the conclusions spoken of by Mrs Pusic are adopted, and we will give support to Mr Simonović and Mr Karamark. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17784	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17785	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There are moments in the work of every body and so on and so on of this High House if we might do it without any special attraction, cameras, journalists, so that we can unburdened public attention and say all the things we can't rarely say. Since that is not the case, I will, of course, choose what I will talk about today and this occasion. On Monday, in the early morning, we set out for a meeting of the Joint Committee of the European Parliament and the Croatian Parliament. One of the usual, now routine jobs that MPs do. However, after landing, some of us, including myself in the nature of the work I do, began to receive messages, an old man in Knin in his apartment, as unfortunately during these years many defenders or other war-stricken people have done, went to the bomb and blew himself up in his apartment with that bomb. A little later comes the news of a young man who decided to judge his girlfriend in Zagreb, then to himself and then finally to the news with which the prime minister began his speech and who shocked us all. This is what we representatives of the Croatian Parliament received as news from the country, going to a routine meeting. But it's not a colleague and colleague of the news that we can go on our way to Brussels. This is not Croatia as it should be on its way to Brussels regardless of which one of these people whose names I do not mention is. They are for me, and for each of us here, a representative and representative of the Parliament, and also members of the government, should be the same. People who put their hands on themselves for suspense, impotence. People who raise their hands to themselves, to others because of anger and loss of control and value and people who try to master life and death and be more powerful than state institutions, that's kind of our reality. This reality is not just colleagues and colleagues, fighting organised crime, fighting corruption. This reality is a struggle for other values, for Croatia and its citizens who will believe in themselves without a trace, and these values, unfortunately these days, are missing these years. And that is why those who spoke before me or those who spoke these days or perhaps months ago, a year in public saying if we were able to reach a consensus for Croatia that brought results, here are the people who participated, a consensus for Europe, then it is time to form a consensus for Croatia today. Because if we don't, the question is what kind of Croatia we're going to be heading towards Europe. The kind we have today with the huge threats of the international monetary and financial crisis absolutely certainly cannot be directed because it would not be equal to other peoples. Those who have been saying for days and weeks that such things are normal. Where are they normal? In Slovenia? In Hungary? Even in Italy, they're not normal. We're the only ones who get used to things like that being normal to us. So I remember a colleague and a colleague, especially I want to say to those with whom I share the fate of the government and I will share it, which is that one of the leading Croatian politicians in the 1990s said there was no democracy without the mafia. There is. There is. It's not the American democracy just years of Chicago, neither Japanese nor any other. And if that's the legacy we need to say goodbye to, clear up, then I call on us to do it. Not only the tasks that Mr. Karamarko or Mr. Shimonovic will do with the support of the government and the prime minister, but also us, with a different political view of things, with a different political attitude towards things. In that sense, I'd say it again. I don't know exactly what this consensus for Croatia should mean. But one thing's for sure, I wouldn't want to hurt anyone, especially anyone who isn't here while I'm talking. But when in the house they plan, it's not the first thing to do to ask where the housekeeper is, how to replace him. But take either a pot or a glass and put out the fire. Because politics share responsibility for what you're not responsible for, and that's the size of politics, and sometimes tragedy. But one who is able to share and take that responsibility can remain in politics. The one who isn't has to think about staying in it. Secondly, we in the coalition cannot have strategic and non-strategic partners. We cannot have, if we are talking about Croatia, as I see it, things where one segment of politics that Croatia needs, regardless of whether it is about minorities, agriculture or something else, will be more important than what Croatia needs right now. I represent the community together with my colleagues from the SDSS who certainly have our own needs, but we are willing to endure so as not to put up with what we are going through and this is my call, our call to our members, our coalition partners. As for the proposed candidates for the new ministers, I also know each other, either closer or further but both. And I can say that I don't know how the decision was made, but I want to tell all those who have decided on such a decision and for such a choice thanks, and I want to tell them from this pay phone that they will have support for everything that awaits them. Their appointment, colleagues and colleagues, was a necessary move. If it's enough, they'll show. If they reorganise the ministries as the prime minister has announced, they will certainly do what is sufficient. Because the citizens expect it. We expect it. Depolitizing the police and the judiciary is Croatia's insatiable need today. To remove our hands from the judiciary and the police, I say ours because I know that sometimes we can't resist giving hands to them, is the insatiable need of our colleagues and colleagues in local self-government units, too. Not just the ones from organized crime, but us. Therefore, the decision on the criteria of professionality, non-partisanness, indeed, as far as it comes at a tragic moment, is a decision that is difficult not to welcome. And are there any other areas where we could do more? There is. There is. We're back from Europe, there's a state administration area I'll say right now. That should also be taken care of. 20 thousand pending cases in this area are not a guarantee and an indicator of good functioning. But we can talk about it, too, and I believe that we will talk within the circle of those who need to be responsible for the functioning of the government itself. So, as far as the SDSS club is concerned, the SDSS club will support the election, the appointment and operation of new ministers in the Croatian government, Mr Karamark and Mr Shimonovic. But also colleagues and colleagues, as they did before me and those who didn't say it, but I know they feel the same degree of responsibility as we all do, is not just about fighting organised crime and anti-corruption. It is that we, the elected representatives of the people, in this place show the people who chose us another kind of political value, political orientation and political will, that we care about the country on behalf of whose people we gather here and that we no longer intend to carry such experiences and messages as we carry from here to Brussels. Let Brussels become the routine job of our foreign minister, the chief negotiator, the others who need to help him from the negotiating team, and our job is here. If we do this job, there's no doubt that there's a guarantee that we'll be even where we're going. If we don't, we won't be equal. And therefore, out of responsibility, from the oath we took to the Constitution of the land in which we operate, I call upon us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17786	Thank you very much, Mr. Milorad Pupovac. It's on behalf of the HSLS-HSU Club Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17787	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. I would say that we are not making this decision today, and we are not discussing new proposals so that we will first of all turn our eyes to Europe and think about what Brussels will say to europeanise Croatia, but first of all we are doing to keep Croatia safe, because let us not fool ourselves, criminal organisation, criminal activity of such a type of evil as the mafia, murder on the streets, squares or houses, beatings are unfortunately in all European countries and not just Europeans. It's kind of like evil, like a crime that doesn't have a passport, or a housewife, something that's not limited to just some peoples and some states. Today we need to discuss what we can do for the safety of Croatia, for the safety of all our citizens, not to meet the standards, as my predecessor said, although I know he meant well, but to be better than that. Croatia must be safer than the European countries, let's not fool ourselves, they are not safe. There is one important difference, however, there is a difference in the fact that crimes are being discovered a little faster, organisations are breaking up faster and more efficiently, judicial persecutions are ending judgments and convictions more quickly, and possible prevention strategies are something that is a common concern for all institutions and all services in the European countries. And that is why we really need to put ourselves in charge today with the government and with these two new ministers, and above all here in Parliament, as a task and as the ultimate purpose of our action for our country to remain and become safer than the European countries. That's what we do for our citizens. And let's not look back at these two gentlemen for whom, without any submission, we can say, they deserve to be ministers on the basis of their résumés. I'm afraid they're expected too much today. Kind of like the tragedy theory says great tragic events not only this last murder, but also yesterday's beating on the streets of Zagreb or those murders before that, these great tragic events are also looking for their great characters, i.e. seeking great works. I'm afraid we're looking at them as all-powerful and all-powerful people today who can do what we've all missed out on for a long time. And it will be difficult for them because, according to Shakespeare, one of their faults with this kind of public pressure will blacken all virtues, and the entire catalogue of potential virtues will not be able to overcome one possible flaw, and we all have our faults and weaknesses. Once again, I fully believe in them, we must understand, in particular, that the issue of the personal security of citizens is a matter of the security of the entire community's tasks to all of us. Let's just take a lady and gentlemen example. In 2002, I participated in a meeting of the Assembly Committee to discuss the rampage of hooligans and fans. After the 2002 conflict between the two cheerleading groups, we discussed what we would all do together. They were education ministers, MUPs, lawyers, state attorneys, I don't remember all of them anymore, then they were falling just as hard words, big words, and my dear ones, let's face it that in six years we haven't done much, and that this government, Vice President Adlesic, has now to deal with the same issues again, with the same difficulties and with far more devastating effects on general security than they were in 2002. Why? Well, because it can't be a question of cheerleading riots, hooliganism on our streets, beatings, especially the issue of mob organisations can't be just a question of prime minister, just the government, just two or three ministers, but it has to become a question for all of us. We must ask the question of how much we all contribute together by our actions or by our struggle for general security. So that's the question you have to ask the schools. I'm glad there's a minister of education, because we need more psychologists, educators, and defectologists, so that's a question you need to ask local self-government. We see a little politics these days, and that's what the Prime Minister needs to step down, so I'm asking you which city most of these evils happen in. Do you think the mayor has no responsibility for that? Doesn't he bear any responsibility for the mayor? Don't they bear any responsibility to the head or chief of police departments? You know what the biggest problem is with the Varazdins? Stealing their bikes. At least that's how they responded to international research. There's no street violence, thank God, don't let God be, but there's no street violence. No beatings, no scenes like this. So I'm not saying that someone else is guilty, I'm just saying that this is a general security issue that should involve everyone and the mayors and mayors, and the government, and the Parliament, and ministers, and that it is not just some of us who should be held accountable, but the general security issue of citizens should become a question for all of us. In this regard, the HSLS and HSU Club will also support the appointment of these two, these two new ministers. We believe that it is necessary to adopt appropriate regulations as soon as possible concerning the implementation of all of what we have outlined as strategies. I'd say there's a big job in front of the Minister of Justice. Unfortunately, unfortunately, that's where we're wrong. We accuse judicial officials and judges of not doing a good job, although we know that only a few courts in Croatia are in catastrophic condition. And yet again, we announce and generalize and accuse an entire honorable profession instead of finally saying where are these backlogs? Where it is in Croatia, and we know which courts are not doing well. What judges aren't doing well? Why isn't the judiciary effective? So let's finally look into the truth. Let's see what we can do now with fire measures? Let's go see a long-term strategic what can we do? And let us not only expect that two people or only the government will restore the sense of security to Croatian streets. That's what we all have to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17788	Thank you, Mr. Chehok. It is next on behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative and Vice-President of the Parliament Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17789	Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, assistant deputies, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm sure we weren't expecting this session today, but I'd like to say that it's good that she's here today. Because both this summation and all those words that we said before today's session with compassion for the victim's family but the determination we have expressed in how we want to deal with the challenges that have been put before us and I believe they will send an adequate message. Because the last few days have created a dilemma. It was being questioned and questioned whether we all had the strength and this body and our government and all those bodies that had to fight evil to deal with it, or whether they would bow down, give in, or God forbid to build in themselves a sense of impotence. Because of this, the moves that have been drawn, the suggestions that we have received and the speed of action within me, and I believe not only in me and not only in my club, but in our community in general, among our public, it is the determination to deal with what has spilled the glass and that is the question of the security of our citizens that we are dealing with. Because what do we ask of them? We ask them for trust. In order for citizens to have the trust of both political and programming and overall, we must guarantee both certain security and not only the safety of work and not only the safety of education but this fundamental safety of life with our children, in our family, in our local environment. So far, there have been many phenomena and excesses and what we can characterize today and the crimes that have been happening. The figures presented today by the prime minister here speak about how much of the process is open. How many processes were conducted, but let's not fool ourselves. There is no final process in this activity. We can only continue to insist on the general message of corruption, according to crime, according to mob organization for crime tolerance is zero. And our desire must be effective in order to be aware that it is ultimately inconclusive. But surely we have so far been able to achieve both the community and the consensus that we are talking about here today when we have established strategies and directions where it is not only party color, party programme, but common good. This is also the way towards NATO and security, and this is also the way towards the European Union, and these are all the reforms that seem to be, which should be implemented and, in fact, today's debate has not once repeated, and we need reforms. We need them to live safer. We need them to live better. We all need it to make them feel better. If the processes do not go quickly enough, then surely all steps and measures should be taken so that those who can influence them can behave in this way. And what's in front of us today, which is proposed as new solutions. In two key ministries of affairs and topics that we are talking about for sure when it comes to the HSS Club, the Prime Minister will have support. But when it comes to support, I believe she won't be left behind in the... How, though, do we experience this support? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not in a way that we can replace the two ministers, we expect them as miracle workers to solve it all now. They will need support tomorrow when they propose certain organisational changes. They'll need support when they choose their associates. They will need support when we discuss funds in the budget, as such situations on the one hand point to and seek responsibility. But these situations also reveal weaknesses, because it's enough to spill the medium. Then we know a certain regulation that has been brought to this House in certain places in institutions and institutions must be cameras. Those who are now viewing say either most of them are placed in the wrong places or are such qualities that almost nothing from them can be read. They're indicators. It's something that indicates the way we all have to act together, because I'm not in favour of building that system in which we will seek to achieve security by strengthening the apparatus, and that the citizen, our citizen, is not involved. So I warmly welcomed all the measures that my colleague Chehok was talking about. One of them was very good and should continue to develop it. They were cops in the community. We need to see what and how this security in every environment develops and creates, because if there is no such security, then there is no trust. She doesn't have that citizen, and I don't want what we were participants about when we were traveling around the world, many of us have read or watched in movies when evil happens and people turn their heads, because there won't be any part of it, there won't be those who saw it, there won't be those who will testify. That's the security we need to build and I'm convinced that we're the frames to build it. The debates that are being held today, and I believe that the basis of the adopted agenda will certainly make it even stronger, further analyze the situation in which we are, assess the situation, but also bring certain messages in which we are going and we want to go. And I am convinced that with the solutions offered to us today and now, and that is why I would like to say that the Croatian Peasants' Club will now and in future in their work and in their action full support for the proposed ministers and the justice and home affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17790	Thank you very much, Mr. Fristice. 14.11 stands out for a ten-minute hearing. And now it's on behalf of the National Minority Club, Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17791	Thank you, Mr. President. The National Minority Representatives Club is aware of the reasons that led to such drastic shift proposals in the Croatian government. There are times when major changes are necessary and although such changes have already been made by certain segments of national minorities before these events occurred and these killings only strengthen our motivation for this Croatian government to change and in such a way as to change the two ministers. Because the change of the Home Affairs and Justice Minister is a big step in whether we see it in advance, backwards or aside, and it will show the future. But in any case, changes were necessary. For the credit of national minorities who are particularly sensitive to social instability, there is still still and it will last first these 30 days as it stands in this proposal for the conclusions we have made when we will see which direction will be the development of the situation and which will be the strategy, which will drink the planned strategy in the work of the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs, and after that will take as long as it is rational, decent, logical and necessary to achieve the first positive results. For the first time, we speak this way because the situation is really serious and that I had to apply such words. It's usually given to the government 100 days to show the results. The new ministers, Mr. Shimonovic and Mr. Karamarko will have fewer days, much less than 100 days, because that is what the situation requires. About Mr. Karamark, of course, and Mr. Shimonović, who we have known for many years in professional terms, in a professional sense, all the best, although not us, but they themselves know that it will not be enough. Organized crime draws roots from political and parapolitical areas, from the ancient and less ancient past. Without looking at itself and in its own past, and in some segments and in the present, because corruption still exists, politics will not effectively end organised crime. Just by looking outside, politics won't end organized crime. They will also have to do introspection, i.e. looking at themselves. Because such results, this is the euphemism of organised crime, cannot happen without organized crime being led somewhere. For five years now, we representatives of national minorities have believed that this government is truly, Europe-oriented and truly oriented towards the future and that as such it wants to end organised crime, such phenomena, corruption or if we want to call it the Mafia. Although I deeply believe that there is at least one factor missing in Croatia, one factor, and this kind of organised crime could be called the Mafia. And that's a lack of broad complicity and silence. What's called in the mafia is an impediment, part of a population that's wider than the criminal mile itself, and which, one part of the population that's afraid to shut up and not want to show off murderers and that doesn't want to show those who kill without any emotion, not just young people like what happened here, but in Italy and other countries and small children, or even family members if necessary. I hope that such silence in Croatia does not exist and spontaneous exit to the streets gives me, which happened immediately after this... It gives me hope that these groups of criminals will not capture the very consciousness of their environment, which is necessary, unfortunately, for organized crime to be a mob. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want to believe that at least in Croatia, at least in Croatia, the mafia will not revive. In the end, a few years ago, I held an exhibition at the headquarters of Italian anti-mafia in Rome. We've been invited by several exhibitors from the world to talk to them, imagine human rights. The Mafia wins when it can limit human rights. No human terror is as terrible as a restriction, an arbitrarily constraint of freedom. And taking personal data for preventive reasons, we must be very careful, very careful in all democratic societies to take identification data, and even to people who have sinned, but supporting penalties is questionable in terms of maintaining democracy and freedom of individuals. The new, as is now popularly called anti-mafia law, will have to come from a solid axiom to protect individuals and society, not only in the safety of individuals and society, but also in the protection of the human rights of individuals of that society. There must be no human rights regression, otherwise we will lose the battle immediately, and national minorities are sensitive to it. Since organised crime is not only a matter of profession, but also of politics, unfortunately, I would like to draw attention to Mr Karamark and Šimonovic, with the modesty of the non-experts that in the fight against organised crime and the mafia in Italy, the highest number of institutions of penitentiary but well applied, as well as in the U.S. protected witnesses. One penitent can unwrap the entire chain, the whole network, invest money and time to acquire a system that will really enable anonymity and life elsewhere, of course abroad, because Croatia is too small for those people who are penitent or protected witnesses and will give them protection. Honest police and justice can only guarantee that someone will be able to speak and remain alive, he and his family. We conclude, the National Minority Club will support these changes in the government and monitor the implementation of these changes, either from the point of view of efficiency, or from the point of view of human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17792	Thank you very much, Mr Furia Radin. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17793	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today we choose the 4th Minister of the Interior in 5 years. It is an impressive score that can be praised rarely by the country and by the people whose, at the very beginning, I want to highlight the credibility of the human and professional in no way am I, nor the SDP club, to be questioned. There are miracles to be expected, but there are no miracles, gentlemen. Miracles only expect desperate ones. What we believe in is systematic work, principles, the rule of law, so all of what we have learned despite some of the lessons that we have learned here today from representatives of communities, successful mayors, all of what we have talked about in the last half of the year and been ridiculed and ignored, but it is the right parliamentary majority. No one can take that right away from her, as no one can take away the right to speak to the representatives of the opposition. We don't call for riots, we don't call for street calls, we call for responsibility. We call on those we hold responsible for this situation, and we hold the Prime Minister responsible, because this is his government, but at this point it's a question of how much of the HDZ government is and how much more political government at all. We didn't get an answer to the question why were the ministers removed? Why was the minister we heard about last week removed? And finally why has the Minister of Justice been removed after this cruel, horrible murder that has disgusted us all and bewitched us in some way? Why? These are the people who received from this House, from members of the government, from the presidents of the highest possible grade. Do we have the right to ask that question? Are we gonna get an answer? We have no illusions. We call for responsibility, and that's all we want to talk about. We've been listening to all kinds of stories, including from the mouth of high HDZ officials about bad human relations within SOA, between SOA and IVP, from Mr. Seks, he knows what he's saying, I'm saying it without any irony. Did the Prime Minister know that? Did she react? It didn't react. We expect miracles today. Let's go back to 2005 to prove that this is no SDP noise, but that one systematic request that lasts for years. This is just a drop that spilled the glass. In 2005 on the occasion of the arrest of a Croatian citizen now serving a 6-year sentence, we heard a promise and a threat to organised crime by the Prime Minister that all state services were given a warrant, as if they were otherwise not required to act by law and that we would deal with organised crime until the end. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, that was three years ago. A few days ago, we heard the same story. We're not gonna tolerate organized crime or mob murders or anything like that. We agree with that. We insisted on that one week ago for a debate in this House. The minister who is responsible for that resort has received your full trust. Full trust! But fighting corruption and crime is a political struggle, and if politics are united and mated with the profession it's the most murderous combination, there's no stronger. We haven't seen anything from that. And later when I speak of these honorable individuals, but also of the third who has been nominated for one also important duty in the system of national security, which is not decided by this House, I will say more about what I think. So this is not a debate on the proposed candidates who are to enter HDZ's rescue government and the question is, how many more of this is the HDZ government, how many of these HDZ people have been put out in the elections, in the elections of the programme they have promised to implement. I'm surprised that between 60 and some honorable HDZ representatives, there is no one who is able to take this difficult political job after five years and this looks like an alibi to me, an alibi and an attempt to transfer responsibility to another. We have also seen this before, and we consider it responsible for the Prime Minister, because we believe that he leads this government in his own autocratic way. It's not illegal, but it's autocratic. And the only thing we consider more dangerous than autocracy in the SDP is inefficient autocracy and we have it in Croatia today. We've had five years of human experiments, ladies and gentlemen of staff experiments in services. Let's remember the POA five years ago, at the Ministry of the Interior, where people from the second and third party echelons were brought in to do political work. Political business. We didn't see any of that. So again about candidates or maybe for the first time about candidates. I will openly say here that some of them, by my deep conviction, would have had their place in the government of my party SDP and that it would have been much more convincing that they were proposed a week or five years ago and that such candidates would have found their place in the SDP government five years ago. And speaking of candidates, let me finally look back at the candidates. So we have a candidate for the Director of Police, a successful and honorable police officer who was from this government, from that ministry, who was skyrocketed and who a few days ago was preparing for an honorary early retirement, for which there was no place in the system, and all of Croatia and the whole of the MUP and the entire police. It's good to have him back. And it is good to return to the insistence of the person proposed for the Director, or for the Minister of the Interior, because it is the only conclusion we can make. It's the only conclusion. And the interior minister is expected to clear Augie's stables and I'm afraid without political support from the prime minister he won't be able to do anything. And I'm asking why none of the four ministers so far had these political support. No one. Not by the justice ministers. No one. The candidate for minister of justice is one of Croatia's top diplomats, and my opinion is that it would be more useful in this staff situation where HDZ is, as foreign minister, because that is what Croatia needs right now. And I wish him, because I suppose he will be confirmed, I wish him much success at the head of this demanding political portfolio where he will have to cooperate with, don't disturb the gentlemen. Don't disturb them. And I wish him a lot of success with the personnel he inherits there and who he'll have to work with. I repeat, you'd be even better off as foreign minister. Maybe that's true. And I want more support from him than she had until yesterday, praised Justice Minister Anna Lovrin, because she obviously didn't have any support. The prime minister spoke a few days ago about courage, about the need for courage. By who knows which way in the fight against organised crime, corruption, the mafia, with what we see today that is jeopardizing the foundations of constitutional and social return, which has spread and what its roots are in the '90s. And I think of a comparison with the French Revolution, although fortunately, there is no more guillotine, but apparently there is a political guillotine. George Donton, one of the champions, the tragic champions of the French Revolution, and everyone was tragic in the end, in the critical days of 793 before the Duke of Brunswick, spoke of the need for boldness, about... /The speaker speaks French./... We need courage, more courage, more courage. But looking at this honorable gentleman, except for two who have not yet been confirmed, I wonder as Donton used to say when he was leaving, who was next. Who's going next? Who next will be politically sacrificed on behalf of the preservation of one person and this is a political right and it is not illegal, but it happens in Croatia, it happens in this government that becomes the government of HDZ's salvation. The government of HDZ's rescue. And another example of human resources policy in this country to round up that story. A few hours ago, a SDP member of the SDP, the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, supported the appointment of a new director of the Security Agency at the National Security Council. We don't have a problem with that. Yesterday, HDZ's majority elected president of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of the Interest of a Man for whom we didn't even notice until yesterday that he was a member of the Committee, whose name couldn't be found on Google yesterday, a search engine. It's a public figure. That's the president of the Committee for Conflict of Interest? Is that how we choose constitutional judges? In this regard, gentlemen, to understand the importance of public service, you cannot have a lawyer, you cannot have a lawyer who is the constitutional category at the head of such a committee. Because a lawyer is by definition of his job if he does it legally, constantly on the side of private interest. And this just shows that we're moving on, actually means everything the way we were. And that's why today, for us in the SDP, it's just an introduction to a serious debate on the responsibility of the Prime Minister and nothing else. This is not a debate about candidates for the reconstruction of the government that ceases to be HDZ's government, this is the introduction to a debate that HDZ had during the opposition served regularly, and we are serving for the first time. Because we think that for a number of reasons, not only is the state of public security that we've been warning about for days, weeks, months, it's time for such a debate. Of course, most of this house is famous, we don't have an illusion, we don't want an overstatement, and when we call for an election, we don't call for a mess and we don't call for a street. We call for something that is a democratic institution. If that's gonna come up, that's a side issue for us right now. Because of the drinking to the victim, of course we're giving up, so don't disturb them, please. Of course, we are giving up individual debates and they will not be on this subject today, but they will be on the subject of the responsibility of the Prime Minister. The SDP club will vote with all due respect, because it is not here with all due respect. Thank you, gentlemen. My bow. - Give it up. - Give it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17794	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. And now on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17795	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the proposed staff changes, realizing not only the seriousness of the moment we are in as a society, but also the weight of the problem we are facing. We are deeply aware of the fact that only strengthening democratic institutions is the only possible acceptable answer, not only on a political game based on the warming of irrational fear but, and this is primarily here and I want to highlight it, and for an effective fight against organised crime, against corruption and all forms of crime. At this point, the selection of undoubtedly proven experts for the management of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the announced changes in the resolutions themselves along with new legal projects, says the Government of the Republic of Croatia is standing firm in positions. First, strengthening state institutions with a decisive continuation of the reforms that have been launched and secondly, consolidation of democratic pluralist practice and europeanisation of Croatia, which implies also in this situation the acceptance of the fundamental political values that we often talk about, which are essentially the threefold of the government, the principle of the rule of law and, of course, civil security. The government that has democratic elections confirmed legitimacy has decided, considering on the basis of these values, solutions that rely primarily on independent professional institutions by creating assumptions not only for the consolidation of the ministries, but also opening up this solution and space for the realization of the initial social reforms that have in their heart and entail a sharp fight against corruption and organised crime and the elimination of all mafia elements from Croatian society. This is the government's decisive step to give optimal results, and I also want to stress this opportunity, first of all stability, not some coup or anarchy, needs reason, not irrational politics, and needs full support for all political structures and not a new election cycle. Anything else would actually represent the use of a truly tragic moment of cruel murder to create a position of rule or decision, but not based on electoral legitimacy. Call or call for different solutions, to create a climate of neurotic fear, but this fear that hinders therefore rational political action speaks most of those who propose such solutions and therefore are in opposition and therefore the opposition will remain. Any manipulation of fear, therefore, the destruction of democratic institutions is a fertile ground for demagogues which, for all occasions, even for this situation, have so-called. simple solutions. And there are no simple solutions. There is only one thing and it refers to strengthening the democratic institutions of all levers of government and society that are determined to deal with this problem. And that is why the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club really supports the proposed solutions that are on the verge of what I've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17796	Thank you, Mr. Tomljanović. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17797	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister in absentia, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm a little bit, I have to admit I'm a little bit like I came from another planet. And I'm glad Mr. Fiolitz thinks you do because I know what your abilities are, so it's a compliment. Yeah. .../All speaking in voice, laughing./... Please, Mr. President, treat the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17798	Patience, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17799	Why am I surprised? I'm surprised we discussed the security situation in this House eight days ago. We discussed the police, the efficiency of the police. And I am you dear colleagues who represent the ruling in this term, I have listened to how effective the police are, how effective the police are. I've heard about the great successes of the police. I've heard about the good minister. A good minister at the Ministry of the Interior. About a month ago, I guess you also chose a good police director, Mr. Benk, to confirm, and now, eight days later, it's suddenly not good. Suddenly, we hear from the Prime Minister himself that there is a need to strengthen the judiciary, so I don't even repeat that it is necessary to replace the police minister, that Director Benko should be replaced, that the judiciary should be strengthened, that it is necessary to work very hard on the tax administration, at the Ministry of Finance, on the Financial Police. They're talking about some kind of jumper, I didn't get it right, outposts or something. Forgive me if I misunderstood, but I don't know what that jump reminds me of some time since two, three years ago, but I don't know what it means to jump. So I have to admit, I'm surprised, because this is kind of the continuity of the government for five years. So, in five years, we haven't created, or ruling, any conditions in the Ministry of Finance, the IRS, the Financial Police. Until eight days ago we heard about a police minister who's extremely good, now he's suddenly no good. But it should be recalled, eight days ago, it seems to me that someone pointed out that the police have not had a police chief for over a year, but there is no head of organised crime, and that is a big problem, obviously. Of course what has happened in the last few days, but what is happening, but what is said to be, the drop that spilled the glass, this murder that happened the other day, unfortunately in Croatian cities of murder, has become a regular phenomenon, the beatings have become a regular phenomenon. I will tell you that Zagreb and Osijek are particularly hit, that there are 12 unexplained, unexplained murders in Osijek. Here is to believe that Mr Karamarko is following this situation, not only in Zagreb and Osijek but also in other cities. I will remind you that in 2005, Mr. Faber came by decree to Osijek, among other things, that these mob killings, the 12 mob murders lit up. He didn't shed any light. Not a single one. What's more, while he was chief of police, there was another mob murder. But you, Mr. Karamarko, I suppose you'll be elected, here's to think about how to resolve this situation, so not only in Zagreb and Osijek, but also in all other cities when I talk about murder. It's sad what's going on, these beatings, these murders. However, I would say that this is only a consequence, not to say, but I am sure it is the result of organised crime and the mafia. The consequence of the moment when certain individuals stand in the way of the mafia and organised crime or as witnesses or otherwise is resented by organised crime, therefore that is the consequence. But in this country, but not only in our country, but otherwise organized crime and the mafia deal with legal affairs, legal dealings that are illegally illegal. So then we have a violation of the Public Procurement Act, so I don't talk about urbanism and construction, about buying land at favourable prices, re-purposed agricultural land, construction land, but we bought it as agricultural land. See what happened at the Croatian Privatisation Fund or let's go before in conversion and privatisation. Well, I'm sure that it was this mob and organized crime that was involved in the conversion and privatisation that pressured those who could decide in public institutions in the fund, a variety of pressures. I'm sure. That's what you'll elaborate your colleague when you answer the word, the voice of Slavonia, because you're out in Virovitica, and it's known by what. So, how could it have happened that in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, they gave politics to wash their hands, and in the Supervisory Board, they had to know what was going on at the Croatian Privatisation Fund. I will not suggest or at all wish to say that the ministers were under pressure, but certainly not only those three or four vice presidents who have been imprisoned or released now, they themselves are not responsible. Against organised crime and the mafia can be fought, of course, by the police, of course, by the judiciary, by the attorney's office. Where is the responsibility of the state's attorney's office in all this? So you can fight the state's attorney's office, the police, the judiciary, the legal system institutions, the rest, the BIAK, but if there's no political decision to go into that fight, then there's nothing from that fight. And I'm sure there were no such political decisions. And I don't know if such political decisions will happen after this debate, because the act of elections itself and one and the other minister will not contribute to the results in the fight against the mafia, in the fight against organised crime, unless politics gives the green light. And that's perfectly clear. I can't understand the Prime Minister's statement the other day, and it's like this. We will no longer tolerate the mafia. What does that mean we won't tolerate the mob anymore? Does that mean we've tolerated the mob so far or maybe it's a clumsy statement, but we've closed our eyes to illegal acts, in front of state audit reports. The other day we had here a report from the Public Procurement Control Committee, so that's, uh, there's organized crime, so that's where millions and millions of kunas spin. So take a look at how many rich people are here in Croatia. They ride in expensive cars. So did anyone think of the police or the authorities, so let's see where that man got the car, I don't know the cottage, the yacht, the villa? So it's not about getting DNA. All right, we can get the DNA. But if we're going to do that, there's a lot simpler, simpler method. So let's go, let's go see what he's got in his property card, and how did he get it? But let's go see the one I don't even know about in Osijek, and you must be living in Zagreb, Zadar, Split, and how did you get paid, I don't know, 5, 6 thousand kuna? That's how it's going to be, but we're all aware, and we all know in every town who they are, about who these members of here live on their high feet. Besides, when we talk about police statistics and we were looking at them eight days ago, it seemed like a pretty good result. Well, we've seen and we can see spectacular actions through the media in "Diagnosis" so doctors are coming in. Then they're in the Index and they're being brought in from 120, 130 people, academics. So remember "Grutovnica", was "Grutovnica" called? Some kind of reference. They're being detained and they're being statistical, then it looks very nice. Now I ask myself, having understanding of both the police and the judiciary and all the institutions that should be dealt with in this way, who gave priority to what the police should do? We've heard that security is, of course, responsible not only for the Prime Minister, but also for the president of the state. The President of the State and the Prime Minister should also be and are obliged to take particular care of what is happening in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, neither the prime minister nor the president of the state can escape from what is happening in the Republic of Croatia regarding organised crime or so on. or the real... So I see that, that time is slowly running out for me to finish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HDSB did not participate in the election, nor did the police minister, now, but rather in a moment of the former. So he didn't participate in the election of ministers. The HDSB will neither participate in this proposal nor in the election of ministers the ruling one proposes. The HDSSB will be restrained and, of course, we will follow what will happen after a month because this proposal has been accepted, when the competent ministers submit a report on what was done in these 30 days in the organization, reorganisation or I do not know what kind of report they will actually submit to this Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17800	Thank you, Mr. Shisljagic. That's what we ended up arguing about at the clubs. Now we're moving on to individual. The first is Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17801	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Karamarko, Mr. Shimonovicu, for principled reasons when voting, I will refrain. Not because I would consider you not adequate candidates for this place but I can't and I don't want to put myself in a position to today, to give you help and support to enter the government, and for ten days to vote in favour of both the Prime Minister and the Government as a whole, because that would really make me an unprincipled part of the ruling majority today, and then in ten days, you'd be an opposition representative. But I still want you to succeed. Not because of us in this room, not because of me, not because of this session today, but that it really depends on your success in your business. In addition to the personnel solutions that you have clearly already proposed or will suggest I want to believe that you will get free hands, a large maneuvering space in work. As a prerequisite, I consider your success. In today's debate, someone mentioned fire, pyromaniacs, housekeepers, and firefighters. And he said: "When the fire burns, we must all put out the fire. We all have to be firefighters." I'm not sure we all have to be firefighters because I think someone still needs to ask the housekeeper and what you've been doing and where you've been, and someone else or a third is looking for those pyromaniacs. We in Croatia are acting strangely because when everything is good from the economy to the security situation, that is why the government is responsible. But when problems begin, when they arise, they start asking questions of responsibility, then they call us to community and we all put out the fire together. Eight days ago in this House, we were discussing a report from the police minister. Today, the prime minister came before us with a request or invitation to give confidence to the two candidates he proposes, but in no word did he say why these two had been replaced before. It would've been okay for him to at least tell us if it was subjective or objective responsibility for those two. But, well, we're used to it because it never happened in Parliament. Discussing the report now, the former interior minister was all normal here in this assembly. Every criticism of the work of the ministry, the minister and the apparition of the problems was declared by politics, and I personally, if you remember both the police minister and the director of the police, referred the following question: tell us what we here in the Parliament have to do to make it easier for us? What must we change here in Parliament, which law, which law, to make it easier for the police to work and be effective? What is the Parliament's responsibility that the police have no better results? They told me the Parliament didn't need anything. So the help of the Parliament that was then offered was not accepted. Ten days ago, Mr. Benko was appointed head of police through a public tender. Now a new competition will take place, although the prime minister said we would only carry it formally, because it knows who they want headed it. So, and that competition will be formally conducted. But what concerns me is the fact that Croatia has been missing for more than a year from the first man, Crimea Police. No one's said a word about it today. And this situation you see shows that it is not good either in our Rules of Procedure, but also in the usual practice that has been present here for 18 years that candidates for ministers cannot speak and answer the questions of MPs. Perhaps, through questions and answers that would be answered, they would remove both part of the dilemma and suspicion. However, we once introduced such rules, and no one ever wanted to change them. And I will conclude my debate by quoting Mr. Sanader's statement published in the newspaper on October 7th, which reads: "We will not allow organised crime to create the impression that it can do what it wants without sanctions." Is it really the impression that organised crime is not sanctioned? Whether it's just an impression for the Prime Minister, that's really an impression or a fact. We heard today that somewhere around 3,000 charges are under trial and about 400 investigations. Neither the charges nor the investigation are sanctions. How many judgments have been passed, how many members of an organised crime group have been convicted and how many are in prison. We're not going to get an answer to that question today like we didn't even get an answer from the police minister, and it was very simple. How many files, how many murder investigations were opened in Croatia, say, ten years ago. How many perpetrators of such serious crimes as murder have never been discovered. That information's not in the statistics either. He does not want to be answered as well as this fact that the non-sanctioning of unorganised crime in Croatia is declared only by the impression not of facts and facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17802	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the list of speakers has been exhausted. We're done arguing. I'm closing the debate. And please get involved, if with these keys, I hope we got them. Let's see the quorum. Let's see the quorum. The result? There are 106 MPs and representatives present. I note that to vote in favour of ministers, candidates for ministers need at least 77 votes to vote. I am voting on the decision to show confidence to Dr Ivan Simonovic as justice minister. Please, let's get involved and vote. Let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that the decision to show confidence to Dr. Ivan Simonovic voted 80 for, 49 abstentions and nothing against. Thank you very much. I am now voting in the decision to show confidence to Mr Tomislav Karamark as Minister of the Interior. [[Applause.]] Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find this decision to show confidence to Tomislav Karamark accepted by most votes, 89 votes to 81 votes for, 49 abstentions and nothing against. [[/Intruder: One, one.]] We have a proposal for conclusions proposed by the clubs of HNS, IDS, SDSS and the National Minority Representatives Club, which is the conclusion. [[Applause.]] I'll read it, though I believe you have it. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report within 30 days the Croatian Assembly on planned strategies in the work of the Ministry of Justice, Home Affairs and on measures taken to reorganise and consolidate these ministries in the fight against organised crime and corruption, and to improve the physical and legal security of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I propose clubs to this conclusion by those clubs to vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 84 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 2 against. In accordance with Article 108 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 7. The law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be sworn in by the new ministers. After reading the text of the oath, I will call upon an individual member of the government who will swear by standing up and saying the word "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I swear that I will exercise consciously and honorably the duties of a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, laws and legal order and advocate all progress of the Republic of Croatia." The Minister of Justice, Dr. Ivan Shimonovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17803	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17804	Thank you very much. Home Secretary, Mr. Tomislav Karamarko? [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17805	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-10-0.u17806	Congratulations to the new ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, on Wednesday, October 15th of this year, at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda, we begin the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. 158. Thank you very much, very much, very much. Now we move on to - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 174. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The Government has submitted amendments in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. The amendments were also submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
