ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19186	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, here is the Government, in the second reading, proposing a final draft law on public-private partnership and, of course, depending on the outcome of the debate, Croatia would join an extended round of EU Member States in the meantime. Of those 8 who, meanwhile, have sought to regulate the matter of the public-private partnership at the legislative level. In short, we prescribe basic concepts in which, of course, the very definition of public-private partnership is the most important. This law also provides for the establishment of a special expert agency for a public-private partnership which would be at the technical and professional service in the preparation and implementation of their projects for all potential public partners as well as private partners. In this respect, the law seeks to encourage, in any case, the entrepreneurial initiative, the development of units of local and regional self-government in public-private partnerships, and, of course, accompanied by transparency and accountability of all parts of the public, with respect for the rights and obligations of each partner and public and private partner within the framework of, of course, real fiscal capacity and individual strategic development plans. Important news compared to the first reading we have made for, in preparation for the second reading refers to the amended definition of public-private partnership. We believe that we have made it more clear in terms of determining the scope of the content that includes the concept of public-private partnership. We have also little regulation of the definition of a public partner in such a way that one or more of the public bodies can be covered by that definition. We have also explained the part relating to guaranteeing public insight into certain elements of the public-private partnership contract. We believe that the procedure for approving the project itself is now simplified compared to the first reading. The number of opinions to be obtained has been reduced. But there is also a stronger role for the Ministry of Finance in view of its agreement on project proposals. It also simplified the procedure for the approval of the tendering documentation in such a way that the assessment of the documentation is primarily carried out by the Public-private Partnership Agency. It also reduced the time limit within which the Agency issues a solution unless further consultation is required from 60 to 30 days in the first reading. One observation has been made that the whole process takes a little longer so that we tried to reduce the deadlines in that segment, bring them down to an acceptable measure. The provisions in the part in which the Agency approves the final draft contract have also been simplified. A safeguard clause has been added to the agreement given by the Agency on the draft contract by the Republic of Croatia deny potential responsibilities for disputed relations between public and private partnerships. The Republic of Croatia, in this case, does not represent a third party to the implementation of obligations. In a slightly more comprehensive way, we tried to regulate a status-private public-private partnership, the authority of the agency and other bodies of the state administration legally equated with a contractual public-private partnership. We also deleted the section relating to the Agency's authority to collect fees from registrations in the register and provisions relating to the Fund. In view of the adopted Law on concessions, we have also harmonised provisions concerning legal protection itself and we have made certain nomotechnical improvements. In this segment, by mentioning the Law on concessions but also the adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, let me just say that by adopting the Law on Public Private Partnership, we end up making a legislative package that regulates the system, the entire system of public procurement. As the public procurement system is known, public procurement, concessions and public-private partnership. And what is common to all three laws are the principles, the public procurement process as well as the single legal protection and jurisdiction, the future competence of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures in concession proceedings as well as the public-private partnership. What we expect after the adoption of this law is certainly one professional assistance from the future public-private partnership agency. Encouraging all levels for public-private, private partnership projects. We are doing this in the entire legislative system of the Republic of Croatia for the first time. In any event, the Empire that will be based on this law will be welcomed, and if, of course, feedback from the field, by applying in practice, it will indicate that the law which, through sublegal acts, needs to be adapted to practice through the basic norm. Of course we will at the request of the addressees of this law and do so. However, it is necessary to allow the practice to develop, that the first projects based on this law and future sublaws should be launched. That evaluation, approval and the whole procedure take place in order to have the first real real assessment of the effectiveness of the Law on Public-private Partnership. I thank you for your attention and thank you for all the discussions in the relevant committees as well as their members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19187	Thank you very much. ... The Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For legislation? For European integration? For the economy? For local and regional, regional self-government? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Representative Milivo Škvorc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19188	Dear Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of the Law on Public-private Partnership. The application of the public private partnership model has not been regulated so far, and various, mostly sectoral laws have been applied in the negotiation and implementation of public private partnership projects in the Republic of Croatia. The only complete document aimed at a public and private partner in the way in which this model is handled were guidelines for the application of contract forms of the public private partnership of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which have been held after discussions and acceptance in the Croatian Parliament and published in the “National Journal” since 2006. Such a formal framework of public private partnership arrangements has in practice proved insufficient. In particular, although they provided a good basis for the application and improvement of the public private partnership model in their legal nature, they are not binding, and they refer only to certain models of the public-private partnership, above all to the so-called ‘public-private partnership’. the model of the private financial initiative, while other public private partnership models do not contain a described procedure for their implementation. This law first and foremost seeks to create an effective formal legal form that will enable the development of public infrastructure and raising the quality of public service provision through the proper participation of private capital. Through the application of entrepreneurial knowledge, skills and innovation, and in a way that will ensure a favourable and motivated environment for private sector investment, but at the same time guarantee the protection of public interests. The professional level of project preparation and the extension of the priorities and fiscal constraints outlined. Quality of application of the public private partnership model to other countries' experiences has a positive impact on the increase in investment and economic development of the state. It has a positive impact on the development of competitiveness and on the development of the internal market for certain activities, bringing significant fiscal savings into the longer term, and above all leading to an increase in the quality of public services. It is very good, according to our assessment, that a project of public-private partnership is at the heart of the final draft law, as well as that the law provides for the process of proposing, approving and implementing the project, and the competence of the institution. We believe that so far experience in applying this model of economic activity has clearly pointed to the need for detailed regulation, especially in the section relating to how the public private partnership projects are proposed and prepared. One of the objectives of the procedures prescribed by this law when it comes to proposing and selecting projects that can be implemented by one of the public private partnership models is their compliance with the horizontal and vertical strategies adopted by public authorities. Therefore, the central authorities of the state administration, and units of local and regional, or regional self-government. Given that the implementation of projects through the application of the PPP model may, in particular, be the case when it comes to models that involve payment on the burden of the public partner budget, entail significant fiscal expenditure and risks of the public body of the project promoter for a long period of time and up to 40 years. In this part of the process, the consent of the Ministry of Finance is crucial. The Ministry of Finance assesses the financial justification and sustainability of the project, but also most importantly whether the planned expenditure of the public body for the implementation of the project is in line with budget projections, i.e. specific regulations laying down the allowed annual limits of budgetary responsibilities based on the public private partnership. The second important part of the law is the one in which the selection procedure of the private partner is referred to the necessary application of the rules governing the area of public procurement, i.e. the rules governing the award of concessions. In the light of the fact that the legal property of the European Community in connection with the procedure for the award of a public-private partnership contract knows only or the procedure for the award of public contracts, public procurement contracts or the award of concession contracts, as well as this law, and depending on the characteristics of a concrete approved project relating to the selection process of a private partner, the necessary application of the procedures prescribed by the Public Procurement Act or concessions. In this way, for both the public and private partners, full transparency has been guaranteed the most important part of the procedure, and the application of the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination. The law also provides for uniform legal protection and jurisdiction of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures. It's final. We believe that the adoption of this law represents a significant, quality step in regulating the matter of the public-private partnership in the Republic of Croatia, and that the adoption of this law and all sublaws will establish clear and transparent rules for both the public and the private sector in the preparation of certain models of the public private partnership. The adoption of this law provides for the opening of new markets, further growth and development of the economy and its competitiveness, as well as for a higher level of public service provision for the benefit of all Croatian citizens. Also, a new approach to investment in public administration sets new tasks and new roles for regulators, supervisors and partners instead of the role of investors and performers, which encourages reform and public administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19189	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The public-private partnership has already been discussed in this House on several occasions. The very subject of a public-private partnership has often been misused for their daily-political purposes. And what is crucial and what is important to highlight the truth about it has so far been the words in this assembly but I have to repeat again, which is that the public-private partnership provides entirely new business opportunities in projects of general interest that have traditionally been financed from national and local budgets. The lack of funds in the budgets leads to a reduction in investment in public infrastructure projects and services of general interest, which is sought to eliminate the use of private capital. Due to the benefits of the PPP model, it has become an irreplaceable tool for setting up large infrastructure projects... The benefits of the PPP model are multiple, the longer the time range for investment costs, the completion of the project in time and within the planned budget, certain risks are not transferred to the private sector, the management of the property is more successful, the costs of infrastructure projects are lower, and the model in the public sector allows focusing on creating additional values for citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, it should be stressed that the importance of a public-private partnership for the Republic of Croatia goes beyond the usual advantages seen in other European countries, because of our Government's strategic decision to reduce deficits. In fact, it is ignored that it is not a key question whether the deficit is yes or not because it is only one of the instruments of financial policy, but whether the deficit is used for consumption or as a detonator for the development and creation of new values. The most remarkable positive example, as well as the driver of development, is the construction of highway development in the term of the coalition government, and the negative construction of a sports hall for the world handball championship according to the model of a public-private partnership at the time of the crisis that is evident. For the past 5 years, the current government has been quite defensive, not realizing that the country whose level of industrial and agricultural production is insufficient, while failing to make optimal use of its development potential and directly jeopardising its future, regardless of formal financial stabilisation. That is why this model is crucial for the development of the country at the moment, a model that drives key development factors, education, infrastructure, health care, while also driving the economy. With the model for the implementation of projects with a public-private partnership that was absolutely new in Croatia, the Varazdin County strongly launched a wave of construction in its area. This model that works successfully in Western European countries does not burden capital investments, but current costs. A private investor finance the construction and maintenance of public facilities owned by a county paying compensation to a private partner per month for 20 to 30 years. According to this model, the County Palace was renovated and built and built 44 schools, which are basic, which are secondary and belonging sports halls. A total of 44 built-up and built-up facilities are organized in one shift almost all primary and secondary schools in our county, and the total investment for the next 25 to 30 years covers both the county's own resources and the local self-government unit. Despite the promises made prior to the launch of this model in the area of the Varazdin County, the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not participate in the project except by regulation, and this regulation adopted after the adopted guidelines in this Assembly reduced the potential of the county to negotiate in relation to the potential set out in the guidelines for the application of the contractual forms of public-private partnership. The government of the Republic of Croatia had no need to engage in the construction of schools and sports halls in Varazdin County, however it actively participated with over 2 billion in the construction of luxury sports halls for the world handball championship according to the public-private partnership model. I would like to point out in particular that we at the Croatian People's Party Club are not against top sports, we support it, but we also claim that we have had the possibility of an organisation in already built buildings with significantly less investment than the ones accepted by the government. In particular, I must stress that the government and the majority in this Chamber, and especially the ruling majority in the same composition, are new in the Varazdin County Assembly, after the shift of the county leadership, and this change by the voter's will points to projects of a public-private partnership in the Varazdin County, and, for example, at the same time in the town of Varazdin, there is a hall for the world handball championship by the model of a public-private partnership worth 700 million, while the value of the construction and construction of 40 school facilities and sports halls in Varazdin County is 850 million. For the annual government's annuity to be paid for the Arena in Zagreb, which was contracted for 210m euros, cca 30 schools and sports halls could be built for 20 departments in a one-way follow-up. It is known that the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are often not suitable for the overall potential and opportunities of this country, especially when the inclusion in the construction of sports halls for the World Handball Championship is compared with the overall situation in primary and secondary education facilities, the picture itself gives a picture of the understanding of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and according to projects of general public interest. In particular, this final proposal for a law on public-private partnership. This Final Proposal for a Law on Public-private Partnership really respects a whole series of remarks that were made during the first reading, but in our final version we received a proposal from the Government that gives one general form, quite rigid, quite bureaucratic, which quite bureaucratises and centralises the process in the possible implementation of public-private partnership projects. We at the Croatian People's Party club believe that this bill would be more appropriate to call the law on a public-private partnership agency. In fact, almost the whole proposal for a final law regulates the status and procedures of the agency. That the need for the agency is necessary and necessary, we also said this during the first reading, but I would like to point out in particular, and the law reads that the possibility of realising public-private partnership projects after the adoption of this law, which I am convinced will also depend on the five main regulations that the government still needs to pass. Because of the bureaucratic and centralist approach in implementing the approval process, the possibility of a public partner contract with a private partner is low for the next 2 to 3 years of any project under the public-private partnership model. Namely, in the best conditions of the project proposal from the public partner to the final contract with the private partner, it takes cca one year. If, in the process of approving a public-private partnership contract, and the great reality of the need for a subsequent clarification to the state administration, this work can take a lot more than that. If we count the time needed for public procurement within 2 to 3 years, the reality from the project proposal to the final contract with the private partner. There is still a danger, given the powers, that some projects are being obstructed. It is once again surprising that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not trust units of local and regional self-government, for example. Some items in Article 11, are underestimated the ability and responsibility of those to whom citizens have trusted in the elections for units of local and regional self-government. And in conclusion, a question arises to the motionary. Since we have adopted guidelines in the Parliament for the application of contractual forms of public-private partnership which give far more freedom to the public partner, why this freedom is reduced by this final draft of the law. Do we not trust regional and local units of self-government? Furthermore, whether the problem of double taxation that could arise when paying the rent will be addressed, for which the problem has not yet been addressed by the finance ministry. The issue of paying taxes on real estate or land to be regulated by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Croatia is raised in the acquisition of the building by the public partner. We at the Croatian People's Party Club reiterate the need to set up long-term funds to support the public partner in financing public-private partnerships projects and the role of developing state and priority projects in the field of units of local and regional self-government other than the control function defined by this final draft of the law. In view of the potential of a public-private partnership, regardless of the significant constraints given by this final proposal for a public-private partnership law, we in the Croatian People's Party will support the final draft law primarily because of the reasonable potential that this law provides even with such bureaucratic and centralistic constraints as are proposed in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19191	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, Vice-President and Mr. Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19192	Dear Vice President, it is incorrect to say that there has been an overstatement in Varazdin County beyond voter will. Every councilman in that assembly as well as everywhere has his mandate and the moment most of them are on one side, it is the will of the voters and it cannot be said that it is against the will of the voters. And secondly, it's incorrect that the government has wrong priorities. The government has specific priorities based on certain tasks and obligations that the state has undertaken, as well as on the issue of the handball world championship where the government has committed itself to helping keep this handball world championship here, and the organiser himself has given the conditions under which this World Cup can be won, and this applies to those halls that are mentioned here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19193	SDP club, Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19194	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's when we touched the World Cup, probably if we had this Law on Public-private Partnership that World Cup couldn't be organised before 2015, about what direction this law goes in. Some things, of course, are well regulated and normally you need to know and have clear rules in some way what happens when we talk about a public-private partnership, but on the other hand, it's not good when you reregulated certain things, when you centralize them, when you all come down to the fact that the central government decides where, what is going to happen and how it's going to be done, it's certainly not good. What's a public-private partnership? The public-private partnership is, in fact, if we could simplify, invest private money to create public goods or provide public services. In return, the private partner receives the right to build or any other right or concession while the public partner retains the right to control and assumes the obligation to pay compensation unless it is agreed that the compensation for the use of the built or built-up or the provision of services is fully charged by end-users. So in some ways this is not a new example, and what we are discussing today and here, and what we have had in the past few years to see in some investments in Croatia has been applied in the world for a long time. We can say that, say, the Suetic Channel in the 19th century is one of the examples of a public-private partnership. What do we have today, what is the situation in Croatia? We have guidelines that we adopted in 2006 and on the basis of which the whole process was implemented and we have no law. What do we have in Europe, what are examples, how have other countries in Europe defined it? Some have guidelines, some have laws. No country in Europe has guidelines and laws and Croatia will likely be one of the first or first to regulate the entire area. For example, the UK, which uses this model extensively by some estimates around half the total investment in public-private partnerships throughout Europe, takes place in England, does not have a legally defined procedure, i.e. there is no defined public-private partnership legally as it must go but has simple guidelines and these public procurement laws and other laws that include public procurement define other details. We at the Club of Representatives of the SDP will be abstentioned in the adoption of this law for two basic reasons. The first thing we believe is that such a law should not be used to centralise certain functions, i.e. to increase the influence of the central government, because central government is not a guarantee that a public-private partnership will take place in a correct manner. We can see that from a few examples. On the one hand, we have an example, and here's a colleague from the HNS named the world championship and hall. It is absolutely evident that certain projects are in some way not suitable for the current situation in Croatia and perhaps some projects should not have been carried out under the conditions of this financial crisis that is happening in the world. What might be mentioned, which is why we think that centralisation or centralization of the entire public-private partnership process is in action, is seen from the law itself. We have three steps, which are starting from the first that the central agency, i.e. the competent ministry and the Ministry of Finance, must approve the first project after that, go into the story that the tender is being opened, and then the selection process must be approved by you, and when you have already chosen, it must ultimately grant you the conclusion of the contract. It means a three-step procedure, which will probably take almost a year and which allows the central government to at least choose where it believes it should and where it may be in cooperation with local authorities, where it considers it necessary for local authorities to help build a project, to allow in a second or third step. And in case she doesn't think it's good, she can step in step two or three after she's approved the project. In any case, this allows one 'let's put it this way to say an unfavourable position for certain units of local self-government that are not in the same position as the authorities with the central level. That this process will not, in our opinion, help further use this way of funding local projects, speak in favour and that it is very likely that more will be paid to local units to pay for classical public procurement, bank borrowing, building buildings in a self-administered direction, 'let's call it that, not in cooperation with a private partner because this law did not cover those things that are very important, which is to stimulate this way. One example can be said that when a local unit takes credit with the bank to build a school, it does not receive interest or interest without value added tax, and when these interest through private partner financing is charged, it will be increased by VAT. So, this entire gap will collect, collect investments in local projects, and I think that local units will more and more choose the classic form of procurement than they will use public private partnerships, because the first thing is that the whole process is centralised, and secondly because it's more expensive than it would be for them to do itself. On the other hand, yesterday, the prime minister also told the speaker that we are talking about HITRORez or that we should speed up the overall process of making some decisions and implementing projects in Croatia. This law is definitely going the other way. Now we have about an average duration of the public-private partnership process from the day we start the project until the agreement is about 18 months. My opinion is that this process will now take at least three years, which still speaks enough about the possibility that in local units and significant changes in government relations, local units will most likely prefer to choose the procedure of classical public procurement, classical borrowing and building facilities in their direction. What it is still saying is that in the last two years we have only four public-private partnerships projects. It's now the last year of that four, three sports halls. So we see that even now local units have not used this form of investment in local infrastructure, which is enough to say that it simply needs to be further promoted and in some way to show local units which is of interest to end up in a public-private partnership and to start. When we talk about projects and why I don't think it's a state guarantee that a public-private partnership will be worth it or for a local community, we can see it from two examples. One example is the public-private partnership of building a hall in Koprivnica. In my opinion, the correct process was carried out where about 210 million kuna is paid for the 13,000 squares hall. And now I'm going to give you an example that the government approved last year, and it's about building a hall in Varazdin that has 20,000 squares and costs about 750 million kunas when annuities are collected that will be paid for 25 years. It is evident that there is a disproportionate price and that there is no guarantee that if the government has received something, it will be more favourable and ultimately more profitable for the local community. I think the local community, once a project of public-private partnership has been approved, or it can be seen to go into the project, has no need to hitchhike the whole project in two or three steps afterwards. So in the end, I say, the SDP Representatives' Club will remain restrained about this proposal because we think it's being reregulated, that it allows the central government's influence too much on local self-government or that it affects what they can do or can't do, that it doesn't promote the full sense of public-private partnership. That not these four who were last year but for this year probably not for the next year or for two years when this law is applied we will not have any public-private partnership project because it is complicated. And thirdly, it is unnecessary that, as we said, the law that defines the whole process has such an impact from the state level on the level of local units. So here, the MPs' club will remain restrained even though we think this is one space that local units have to use more because it's really a possibility both at the end and at risk, and for local units when using such infrastructure facilities it's smaller. And we regret that the government did not go in this direction to promote this process, to become transparent, to make it easier to invest in the whole public or public-private partnership process, to benefit citizens from it at the end and beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19195	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19196	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. First, no one will convince me that public-private partnership is the best way to finance municipal infrastructure or some other city, sports, or I don't know what infrastructure. However, I claim that public-private partnership is the most expensive way to build. It's probably one of the most original ways of thieving. The truth is, we didn't patent it. Now I've heard that's been going on since Suez was built here, but behind that definition I can stay. Why does a public private partnership pass? The public private partnership passes because the state limits the rights in local self-government over borrowing. That's number one. So it turns out that Vlad is not enough to share budget money by grandma and uncles only, but also by grandma and uncles it gives you the right whether or not you can be in charge, and now it's probably going to give you the right by your grandparents and uncles, or to take away that right whether you can or can't start some construction under the principle of public-private partnership. I am not running from the truth, this form of partnership certainly knows some good examples in Croatia. I don't know how many of those examples, I heard now there are no more than four, I know them for a few more. But also when we talk about it, we know of an example of some bankrupt county, and the paradigm of a public private partnership is an unscheduled hall in Osijek or, say, Istrian y on which the Istrians pay for five kilometers of tunnels or, more specifically, 5210 meters of that tunnel no less than 28 kuna, and for 168 kilometers of highways from Rijeka to Zagreb now, our citizens who have about 20 km of tunnels, which these overpasses, bridges and so on, will pay 60 kuna. What we had a chance to hear today, as Mr. Maras mentioned just before, before him, Mr. Koračević, that the hall in Varazdin cost no less than 700 million kuna, so it is a thief, as you call it. Poreč is building his hall with 3500 seats for the next handball championship for 100 to 120 million kuna. We see that Osijek is now, once these plans of this public private partnership have been corrected, an investment that was supposed to cost about 850 million kunas is reduced to 170 million kuna and clearly with VAT. When we talk about VAT, I think the VAT is also included in that price of 120 million kuna in Poreč. What I also want to mention on this occasion is that Poreč is building a hall without a single kuna from the state budget, the truth is that the state has left to the city of Poreč some land that they later have to resell or something like that. One thing's for sure, though. The public private partnership in this country will certainly be more and more in order to avoid these bad examples of one Osijek or Varazdin, etc., so this must be carefully regulated and we cannot leave this to just some imaginary guidelines that we adopted in this Parliament in 2006. This is precisely why the IDS Club will support this Public-private Partnership Act. Why will the public-private partnership be further in the Republic of Croatia in the future? Well, because all of us together with the state's weight are going to borrow. The State will reserve this right of borrowing exclusively for itself and the rest will make it clear or develop from its municipal budget or through this form of public-private partnership. It is clear that if we want to reduce this deficit to below 1% now, 1% will remain at local self-government, that only local self-government units will be selected with the possibility of such development and everyone else will be forced towards this public-private partnership. It is also clear that in a public-private partnership the interest must be mutual. It is clear that if such investments are being invested by the state or if local self-government is engaged in these investments, the money for the investor is safe, but that should also be kept in mind on the market, the next day can leave only strong, only large, and all the other small ones most likely will be limited in their development. So today in this country, a loan of about 30 or 40 million kuna for a humble hall or for a modest elementary school can be reached. Well, only a big company can come. As a rule, one that was privatized in the '90s and the kid can only dream of such a job, because they can never actually get to a commercial bank that big a loan. So it could be another money spill mechanism for those who participated in the conversion and privatisation clearly in the Croatian way in the 1990s. The key of this law is certainly Article 11(3) and (4), so the Agency is obliged to ask the Ministry of Finance to agree with the proposal for a project with budgetary projections and plans, which is what I am saying and the Agency is obliged to request an opinion on the compatibility of the project's proposals with sectoral development plans and strategies, i.e. regulations in their area of competence and so on. So now there's a state agency that's going to ask the finance ministry to agree that the project is in line with some of the budget projections. Whose projections? Projections by the Ministry of Finance. The finance ministry said it's leading the deficit down to less than 2%. And I'm afraid the projects of local self-government will clearly be reduced because of that logic. On the other hand, which today is caused by the global crisis are simply painful, the growth of Croatia's GDP in 2009 will fall below 3%, God forbid it is 3.5% as mentioned by Minister Schuker. In countries with which the Republic of Croatia works most, e.g. with one Germany, or Italy, the development at the annual level in Germany will be about 0.2%, in Italy most likely only 0%, and this will lead to a safe and limited investment from these countries on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. The first to take the hit with the exporters in this country, apparently, are the builders. The price of apartments we see is falling, credits are growing, personal consumption is falling, and the key to the law should be what can't actually be prescribed, and that's that the agency won't work like I told Grandma and the uncles. Gentlemen, we are in this country on the threshold, Europe is on the verge of recession. I'm afraid that crisis is moving in with us. Construction deadlines must be shortened. This deadline, for example. in Article 12, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: offices or from now on departments that issue building permits or I don't know other documentation have to do so to express myself, to caricate in four shifts. Anyone who wants to invest, whoever wants to build in this country, the paperwork must be issued immediately. We gentlemen go in or we're on the verge of recession. With administrative care, we must no longer stop investment, whether it be private or public partnership. Construction has so far been around 1.5% of GDP growth in this country. I don't think the administration can get the Republic of Croatia out of the recession, but I'm sure it's reluctant to extend our agony. I'm also sure that the crisis in Croatia would have been much easier if we hadn't resisted the last 10 years of every investment, whether it was golf, whether it was about setting up what I know, some antennas, on some roof, whether it was about building some waste station, whether it was about building an industrial plant, we opposed the construction of every hotel, every power plant, every refinery, any LNG terminal or the company "Adrija", the pipelines, etc. It's illusory to even mention a word. Simply in this country in the last five, six, seven years we've been against everything. We drove out every relevant investor, the only thing we were for, as we hear in these discussions, these are handball halls, they're stadiums, they're concert halls and things like that. It's clear that neither concert halls nor handball stadiums, what we need, but ultimately we can't live. We sold the demagogue that Croatia can only live off speculation on the stock market, only from not knowing tourism, trade, banks, social rights clearly, but there comes a time when we will have to start paying back those 36 billion euros of external debt, when we will no longer be able to repay ourselves like so far, when trade, and banks, and shipbuilding, and tourism will come into huge problems. It's simply true and it should be kept in mind. That this country will be less in debt in due time to witness opportunities on the world money market, the fact that we must surely return 7.8 billion euros this year. Just this year. a state somewhere around 2 billion and a bank, or economy each, for example, 3 billion euros, and perhaps we have to return more than 8 billion euros. It's just like that, and now we're coming to the point of maybe the essence of this law. The administration that is now being created by this agency, if it is not spotless, if within the time limit I am speaking now, 60 days does not issue the required consent, permission, approval or if within 15, 20 days, 30 maximum does not say you cannot build because of this or that, you have to provide this or that, if I assure you that and therefore the crisis in this country will be even deeper. Keep that in mind. The administration has clearly never drawn any country from the crisis, but in the crisis administration can cause irreparable damage to any country, making it clear by its inaction. And that is why the deadlines for the agency's answers should be fully understood, because the time has come for Croatia to have to work. Article 23(6), I'm not going to quote it now, I don't have time, but it seems that every law makes the administration grow, that it doesn't shrink, so it's going to grow up with this law. It would be convenient to see how many people will serve this agency, how much it will cost the budget, but most of all, to whom this administration will be inclined. The article, for example, will be fined by a public private partner, but will also be punished by someone at the agency if that agency does not do the job it is appointed for. You see that's not there. It's not prescribed. These people in that agency are protected as face bears. Well, the Pope doesn't have as much protection as the agency does. What is certainly good is this Article 42(1) of the Public Private Partnership Agency’s staff in the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Investments are being taken over by the Agency by applying the relevant provisions of the Labour Act, but how much of these are to encourage exports that are now being taken over well works best confirms the trade deficit of the Republic of Croatia where we have imports of cca 25 billion dollars, and we are exporting perhaps 12 or 13 billion dollars. If these agencies are as successful as they were in these export offices, then we are ill-written, but the Public Private Partnership Agency really can do its job if we have regulated laws on this matter, but not to behave according to grandmothers and uncles, and to fix only the VAT problem whether it enters into the cost of investment or not, this double taxation problem that will also arise. All in all, the law is necessary, but there is also a need for flexibility in the work of the agency in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19197	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by Ms. Zastava Nedelja Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19198	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'd like to correct the allegations of Mr. Agent who says we're resisting any construction. I think, Mr. Representative, that's incorrect. I am personally pleased and happy to say from the mayor of the big city, the city of Sibenik by adopting and at all this law that will enable not only in faster terms, but also with a much greater impact of the public private partnership mainly on local self-government units when it comes to public services, but also other concepts with commercial aspects, which means that it will facilitate our focus on funds, budgets and units of local self-government and encourage faster economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19199	HDSSB club Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19200	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the practice so far in the public-private partnership or part of the public procurement it seemed to me not regulated but marked by the guidelines in, the Government in that Informor as far as I read a magazine. And here we are finally getting the final proposal for a law on public-private partnership. Here we have heard all the facilities in the world and built in the way of a public-private partnership, so the "Istrian Ipsion" is mentioned, the hall in Koprivnica, the hall in Varazdin, the Suez Canal but I must also say that, for EUR 100 million, therefore 700 million kuna is exactly what the Varazdin Hall is costing the public-private partnership in, that when I add another example built, the Arena Stadium in Amsterdam is built on which Aiax plays today and which is so-called. The covered stadium can therefore in case of rain and cover the entire stadium. Compare one stadium in Amsterdam with the price and everything it provides, one sports hall in Varazdin really has no comment. So what we discussed yesterday about the elections, I would say sometimes to the possibilities of choice of corruption, organised crime from which at times the works of the mafia that we see on the streets in the harshest and most difficult form of physical accounts can also be this form of public procurement or public-private partnership. We also have that Osijek model, as they call it in Slavonia the Japic model, where we see that the price of the sports hall in Osijek from that model of public-private partnership was 843 million. Here it ends in less than 200 million kuna. So as counterpart Cain said, are we here to pass such a law that is more likely or possibly a source of such unholy acts? All over the world, therefore, there is a public-private partnership but here I have to mention some of our specificities that I would say are somewhat limited by the desire to publicly and to adopt such a law that would encourage the economy, could also be stimulated by the economy and some other branches of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. So investment in the Republic of Croatia in particular as we discussed on the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia if the regulation is clean then these investors of our Croatians outside Croatia would certainly find interest to join in this form, in this form of partnership with the country of origin. Whether they're in overseas countries or in neighbouring countries. We must be aware of the adoption or reading of this final bill that we have also adopted the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. In fact, I would say clearly and loudly the Law on municipalities, cities and counties because regional self-government is quite something else in European standards on which the heads of municipalities, cities and counties play a completely different role than before, before the adoption of this law. Will a public-private partnership really be a private-private partnership after 17 May 2009 when elections are held at local levels, local and regional self-government. Who is it that represents the public sector? The mayors, mayors and mayors alone. The role of the council either of the municipal or of the county assembly was clearly reduced compared to before. So when we look at it on this side, then the regulation which the state is establishing or proposing through the agency would therefore be said to be useful. On the other hand, the local self-government, both regional and regional, wonders whether it is reregulated? Is this thing centralized? Is the matter centralised to that extent that all three stages of obtaining a solution for a public-private partnership as referred to in Article 11 are actually within the Agency's hands by those deadlines which are truly unacceptable for 10 days and when we add up those deadlines, all deadlines that are listed here in the process of obtaining, entering public-private partnership and solutions that are needed and when all this is summed up then it is indeed one period of time that can not drive, but may stop the interest of a private partner to invest in this, this form. Mr. Cain was talking about a recession. A recession that can affect the Croatian government's main specifics, economics, tourism, trade, banking. It reminds me of Switzerland whether although I expected after the war that we will reach the Swiss standard very quickly and it is just focused on tourism, trade and banking. Obviously, we are not Switzerland, but our Slavonia and Baranja have something else, and these are strategic products, which are food, water and oil. And we in Slavonia don't have to worry so much about it as long as we have these three strategic products and we force them. So it doesn't have much to do with what I'm saying, even though it might be in case it's invested right in these segments. To invest in the segments I just said. Food production, drinking water, oil. Oil exploration and so on. When we look at the law itself and its specifics, then we see that the agency established has a board of directors. A bit of this reminds me of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, so I'm afraid that similar events that happened there do not happen here, and colleagues on this left have talked about the possibility, there is a possibility that a public-private partnership can be resolved by means of vertical authorities if I understand well, i.e. the authorities acting in local self-government in a vertical direction towards the state government and that there can then be a certain different approach for the approval of a public private partnership, projects of these in relation to diversity in certain environments, in certain units of local self-government or regional self-government. This material of the final bill shows that the agency corresponds to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, exclusively to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and submits at least once a year a report on its work in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We have here this final bill of law we're considering and we'll probably know most of the Parliament's hands to adopt it. Will we ever be able to consider the work of the Public-private Partnership Agency here in the Assembly benches? Since it is not intended for the agency to submit its reports to this House of Commons, it only corresponds to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is also mentioned in point 3 of Article 21 that, after the selection process of a private partner, a public body and a selected private partner shall enter into a partnership agreement. Personally, this word is of a very suspicious quality and reminds of some earlier times in which the partnership was very, to say unpopularly understood by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so if it really is socialism in that sense, then it will not be good. When it comes to the Agency then Article 18 states that the Agency has the right to determine the scope of access rights, i.e. the scope of public data in the register. So, some things the agency is obliged to publish, but some data can simply not tell hide, but it can be arranged not to publish. What's the point of this? Are we then, then, if we respect these principles set out in Article 3 and says that the implementation of this law requires the principle of public interest protection, the principle of competition, the principle of effectiveness, the principle of equal treatment, the principle of mutual recognition, the principle of transparency, the principle of transparency. How transparent we'll be if we can never see any data or they'll come out in the light of day, and that's how it's written here. And another principle of environmental protection, which makes me happy with this part anyway. After all, who appreciates the respect and application of these principles? Who will be the one to assess the business and apply these principles by the agency. We see that also in sanctions against public-private partners, those sanctions are called violations and refer to the Criminal Court. Aren't some of the things that were done at the Croatian Privatisation Fund a criminal offence and a criminal response. So, there are doubts, and the HDSSB club to finish this story, the HDSSB club will decide after the debate and the arguments that we will get further, hopefully, from the State Secretary and the rest of the government, how it will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19201	Thank you. At 10.42, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. She's done discussing clubs. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19202	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. A public-private partnership can be really one good way to do that in those situations when, above all, local self-government units do not have enough resources and when they want to do something for the greater good. But also a public-private partnership can be one of the newly-composed forms, the new wetlands of robbing what is left for humans, and these are non-renewable resources, forests, water, land. So, real estate, something owned by the state, which is owned by units of local self-government and which serves and has to serve all citizens. It's simply unforgivable that so far we've only had some hints to solve this problem and it's allowed everything, so in market economy conditions, where we put something on that market that doesn't put in much more developed markets like some fundamental human values, but let it go now, it's being built or planned to build hotels and I don't know what big capital it needs. The government has often praised itself in such examples with great success, and kill itself when it looks a little better under the public-private partnership company, we have not bought, but sold out what remains at sea when it is calculated somewhere or for the euro are under a public-private partnership company, there is estranged property owned by a local self-government unit. So why am I bringing this up? Because it is precisely necessary to be so careful and precise because these new public surveillance mechanisms simply force us to be very, very careful about this savage capitalism that is more savage than ever. I'll just point out one more time because it seems to me that it's very important that this invisible arm of the market decides every day who will make progress, who will fail, who lives, who dies. So we need to be very careful how we control what is left of us and what is common to all of us. And of course it's a good thing that the government is coming here with a proposal like this. However, there are serious complaints about this bill here. First of all, I will speak from the aspect of what this bill together with the Law on Public Procurement and on concessions adopted by the Government shows as a strong anti-corruption measure. What's that got to do with it now? This is referred to in Article 18, which refers to the register of a public-private partnership contract. So it's available, giving the private something that's public good. It'll be taken into account by the agency that owns the register. Is it normal, therefore, and the Government is just calling for such a provision in this law, and then nice to me, then the Government is able to study that the Agency will, by means of a regulation of this article, determine the authorisation of access to the register and the scope of the right to access the data from the register. That's inadmissible. I don't know why the government likes to work undercover, and as much as it says, so in this big campaign against corruption, organised crime that is the heart of corruption and which is only a bridge to politics, we see the most important representatives of the judicial authorities and those who face it and who are expected to fight corruption and organised crime are just talking about it. As it occurred to the government not to study in the law that the register was public before anything said about the register, she had to say the register was public. This way when it's a secret, when it's obscenity, it's an invitation, it's a mob call. The Mafia loves secrecy. To fight this can only be fought with openness, transparency and the public, which are otherwise characteristics of good government. As it is decided in advance that some of the procedures of the authorities are calculated, to know who will get it, the one who is the best, and not who has offered the most acceptable price, and those who are the candidates, who have run with high prices, are humbly working on it as co-operatives. And nothing to anyone. Therefore, it is essential that the register be made public, that we know what is done, under what conditions, who has won. It is an alphabet and we expect, we will especially insist on it and be loud about the government's compliance, to accept our amendment that we have submitted on behalf of the SDP club, we believe that the government will do so as it did on the proposal of the Law on concessions. Something should also be said to protect that public property. It is inadmissible, and is often spoken with the highest state instance that the government will not sell out its land, forests, so these resources, that they will be used by some other real rights institutes. Therefore, it is inadmissible in Article 2 where it is proposed to transfer certain rights to a private partner in exchange for commitments made by a public partner, so whether the state is a unit of local self-government to a private partner. No matter what certain real rights. We may have stayed, but not property. If they're going to transfer property, then why the Public-private Partnership Act? Let it be a sale, which shouldn't be to offer I don't know what price. Well, that's a lot of countries, so France that's been using similar institutes since the Napoleonic times, so it's got a nice, nice administrative contract. Everything is public, everything is transparent and is used by this administrative contract and it is impossible for some annexes, which is now conveniently called annexation, as if it were an improvement of the basic contract where the basic contract, i.e. those annexes exceed the price multiple and it's not playing the norm, it's an abduction. That is why we need to keep our mouths shut, but we see what we need to do to be truly convincing about what we say and what we stand for. So here I appeal that I can't be certain rights, I can be all the right axes, because a certain right above all is the fundamental real right of ownership. That it doesn't apply to property. We also, here, had a big debate on the Committee on Legislatives and there was rightly one of our experts pointed out in Article 24 where the extensive tasks and powers of the public-private partnership agency were so I don't know what, here may be good intentions, but indeed, such a rubber norm and one law should not have it, so it should be passed by the vote anyway. In this regard, Article 24 states that the Agency improves infrastructure and provides other necessary assumptions to improve capacity, and now watch out for this, collective learning, collective memory and collective knowledge management. I don't know what the government was thinking, but I believe it may have been some kind of noble idea, but this is how it really looks like some kind of system that the government is saying no to, but here, some methods are being stolen somewhere. Article 28. Again, the government proposes something that publicly says it will be denied. Once again, it seems to me that Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic spoke about it, however, that the minister's measure would be removed from the board of directors and supervisory committees at all, something she said about, but the government insists on any new law on how to accommodate certain ministers and is also in the administrative board of directors and responsible for the economy, and members of ministers are in charge of the economy, finance, construction and justice. That's inadmissible. They have so many tasks that it's inadmissible to be here, and above all, it's unacceptable, if some evil happens there and some illegality to say we didn't know, we weren't familiar. But that's still possible with us because we don't have a real economic incrimination where it's precisely those first ones who are called to responsibility so that we don't call them to account, let them do their basic work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19203	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19204	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A public-private partnership if we try to get into some kind of analysis of this syntagma then first of all, we get this word: "partnership" between "public and private interest". So unless there is protection of public interest and private interest, it is difficult to talk about partnership. In this case, I have a public interest in the interests of the local community and the interests of the state. That's why I don't mind, but I do support the government's initiative to regulate this area and my question is why this law hasn't been passed before. The answer may be doubtful, the possible answer has not been given so far that you can do whatever you want, that you can do in a blurry or what the people say, hunt in a blur. I don't mind if the state protects its interests, I don't mind asking for the consent of the competent ministry. A normal thing, in protecting the interests of the local community precisely because there were only principles before and because we have a number of negative examples, how public-private partnership has been implemented so far. I would mention, and I also asked Mr. Polancec, the vice-president of the Croatian government, and perhaps the secretary of state can help us today and explain the situation, the issue of "Sun Hvar". Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed an agreement with the "ORKO" group, whose content has never been publicly published, and some call it a co-loquial secret agreement. The PPP agreement was concluded two and a half years ago. The government did not give 25% plus one share of the town of Hvar due to ownership of the city on part of the property, nor gave 5% to the workers as decided. That is why and because of everything that is happening around "Sun-Sun-Sun-Hvar" and any doubts that exist about whether the Croatian government has managed to protect that public dimension in a public-private partnership, which is whether it has managed to protect the interests of the local community and the interests of the Croatian state. Whether Croatian property is still about 50% or de facto at a small door in the dark under the table has been privatised in favour of the "ORKO" group that we don't know about. The FINA document, which I find disastrous, has been this document since 27 August this year, so it's very fresh, and it's called an evaluation of the financial rating for the company "Suncani Hvar" d.d., which leads to doubts that the government has actually played public interests here, that the company, that the company has been brought into a very difficult position according to this data, someone would say before bankruptcy, but I will read to you what FINA has concluded, so a state-sponsible instance and we have no reason to doubt this report. I quote: We have determined: The company does not have working capital. On the contrary, capital is down in 2007 for 89 million 788 thousand 473 kuna. The rate of accelerated liquidity, unsatisfactory. Liquid liquidity coefficient, unsatisfactory. Financial stability coefficient, unsatisfactory. The current liquidity coefficient is also far from satisfactory. The duty factor is over 57, which is what FINA says, I quote, ten times as much as allowed. That is why FINA concludes in this way, I quote: We conclude that the business of the company is really risky because all the indicators we have calculated are unsatisfactory, or far below the recommended values that are characteristic of non-risk or less risky entrepreneurs. And now I'm skipping one big piece, the last page of the report says like this, and I quote: The interpretation of the ratings "Sunny Hvar" d.d. belongs to the lowest ranking order and is very high probability of default payments. Business cooperation with a business entity is very insecure. With a maximum of 60% probability, it can be claimed that a business entity will not have a default in the next year of the next annual financial report. It's a normal thing for me, and for the more upset public, first of all on Hvar to ask. How the government managed to bring this company into this state and under what conditions it signed a contract with a private partner and what was going on there in the first place. Often just now, Deputy Prime Minister Polancec pointed out "Suncani Hvar" as the pride of Croatian tourism and also the model of how it is done in a public-private partnership. These figures I read here, literally quoting them, from the FINA report tell us that everything is different from what the Deputy Prime Minister and Government assured us of. Who's gonna answer if there's a break in this firm? Who's going to answer what's happened if what Finna predicts happens? So who's going to answer that the company even came into this state? Because when she was taken over, she wasn't in a barn like this. She was in a much better condition, then. And the logic of a public-private partnership is quite different, the intensity is quite different. The urgency is that this is for the benefit of the citizens of Croatia, the local community and the Croatian state above all. It seems to me that this deserves a deep analysis and at least as far as I'm concerned here in the Croatian Parliament as a representative from the 10th constituency of the island of Hvar and the town of Hvar, I will insist on answering these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19205	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before considering the final proposal of the Law on Public-private Partnership, I would like to say that it is an interesting practice for the Croatian Government to react correctly after two or more years. Why? So when adopting or confirming guidelines for the implementation of the public-private partnership in 2006, we warned the Prime Minister, the Government, the proposing representatives that a law is necessary for the Institute of Public-private Partnership in our society. Then the initiative was smoothly rejected. When the practice hatched, misused the Institute of Public-private Practice, the government appeared as a law-saving savior, and that law that de facto takes over the government itself into its own hands. A colleague Marin Jurjevic mentioned the privatisation of "Suncan Hvar" so commercial tourist company under a public-private partnership. A colleague Marin Jurjevic should know that the company is privatised past the current Law of Privatisation, that "Suncani Hvar" is privatised beyond the guidelines of a public-private partnership. And I assure you that this contract cannot be qualified either, strengthened by the final proposal of the Law on Public-private Partnership, because a colleague, Ingrid, has already said that in Article 1 despite the unscathed, insecure provisions that certain real rights can be passed on to a private partner. And this formulation does not allow the transfer of ownership. Therefore, fellow Marine, insist that the public get acquainted with the content of the public-private partnership contract in the commercial company "Suncani Hvar". However, despite all this, the modern state is not based on the provision of services to citizens such as the classical state. So, foreign and domestic policy, national security, finance. The state cares about a lot more public services. The modern state public-private partnership also uses these new services to even the country's development. In order for a public-private partnership to perform a function of even development in the Republic of Croatia, the law should determine in which services all are public, whether they are provided by the state or local community, however. The law should establish services that can be implemented through a public-private partnership programme. We don't have that definition in the law. We have a definition that everything is possible through the form of public procurement and concessions. But at the same time, which is absurd, the government completely centralises and monitors and determines which project can go through that form. Even that's not enough for the government, so she set up the agency, but at the agency she's determined to appoint an administrative body, she's replacing him, and she's controlling him. Therefore, the government's discretionary will comes to light when there is no programme, no public services, no public needs are established or there is an analysis of regional development for which the Institute of Public-private Partnership should be used. This situation, especially so far, in Croatia is a public-private partnership that anyone has, who is richer can benefit from a public-private partnership, the state assures him through government measures to do so, and those who do not even have public lighting... Please don't turn off my microphone, I'm not just talking for the record, I'm talking about the citizens we represent. In Croatia, therefore, the practice confirms that a public-private partnership is used precisely in rich environments, not for the smooth development of the Republic of Croatia where private money would compensate for the possibility of a state or local community. That is why it is the most expensive way of ensuring public needs through a public-private partnership, but it is a social interest to equalise regional development to the same or approximately the same standards. We are really building halls of 700 million kuna, but at the same time our Croatian areas have no public lighting, no electricity networks in their places at all. If the Government has already centralised the decision-making process which can be approved and approved, it should at least determine which services must be contained in the PPP. In this way, we will only really centralised the decision-making place, and it is well known from both theory and practice that people who don't decide at all are not corrupt. A surgeon who has to approve or wants to operate on a patient is corrupted by an official in a garter who has to take out a land library excerpt or enrolment in land books, a clerk in a privatisation fund is corrupt. But, gentlemen, decisions are made elsewhere, and even in accepting the report on the control of public procurement procedures, we gave very positive assessments to the public procurement committee, even the commission received good assessments from the European Union from the Commission. But the parliamentary majority, which is de facto politically dependent on the government, resolved the President of the Commission for Public Procurement Control on a proposal from the government. It's a completely schizophrenic situation. So, you have a great man you have very good control of, yet you increase the jurisdiction of the state commission to her coming concessions and public private partnership, then a finished man who has the support of Europe and gets here flattering grades, resolve as incompetent or unnecessary. So, what does she say about a bill like this? So, the initiative is good, but implementation under this law will be bad. It'll be at the expense of a public partner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19207	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would like to correct the incorrect quote of an esteemed colleague who, among other things, said that this law was written only for developed areas, or that it would have no effect on those areas in the Republic of Croatia which, as we say, are less developed. On the contrary. And that's why I called in to correct the incorrect allegations. On the contrary. This law regulates this matter precisely in a way that will give everyone equal opportunities for development, and especially underdeveloped environments and actually regulates this matter in a comprehensive and quality way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19209	Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19210	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished representatives from the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I am glad that there is the government's interest in a public private partnership as I was pleased when the SDP first suggested that with a year or two delays and the government saw that public private partnership was one of the good things that could improve life not only in local self-government units, but also in society and that it went with the development of a public private partnership guidelines. When we proposed this on the best experiences of Europe, we did not invent hot water, we just listened to what the best European experiences have to tell us and we only realized where SDP is holding the power of what we got the mandate for. An important document and a strategic document, meaning for a public private partnership is a "green paper" or a "Green Paper" that prescribes three contractual models, it is an institutional, concessional and "PFI" model of public private partnership, and it is precisely why it is a guideline not a directive, because it must be brought into line with each country's legislative systems. However, when fellow Maras in the opening statement on behalf of the club said that we were the only country to have guidelines and the Public Private Partnership Act, he was indeed right. So, for example. Italy has three special laws that regulate public private partnership, and Italy is one of the more developed countries under public private partnership. Concessions and governance building, for example There they occupy 61.2% of the market. Service concessions there occupy 35.5% of the market, while other public private partner models are at 3.3%. France, for example. There is no law on public private partnership. There is no single law, but has respect for the directive i.e. Recommendations, guidelines of the European Commission. Now, we're coming up with a model of England. England is a country that has only agreed by 2006 to 800 over 800 public private partnership projects with over 72 billion euros in heavy contracts. A country that has 55% of the public private partnership market across Europe. A country to follow. A country where Social Democrats Tony Blair and a public private partnership drew for the third time in the development of health institutions, so hospitals, schools and kindergartens. And what's going on with us? And now instead of just following the best European practices, and the best European practice is England, we follow the special Law on Public Private Partnership, and we don't need that de facto. However, in the part where he is regulated and in which he has seen some improvements, I will welcome it, but what I will return to is the following. The fact is that we have the Public Procurement Act, the fact that we have the Law on concessions, the fact that we have the Budget Act, which is the same about this law, is the fact that we have the Law on the implementation of the budget, which is the same about the law and in these previous three laws, is the fact that we will have to have a few discretionary regulations of the Government, is the fact that the Agency, the Public Private Partnership Agency, will require future approvals. Some ministries for the implementation of public private partnership projects, the fact is that local self-government units themselves that want to realise public private partnerships will have to request the opinions of certain ministries, is that we now have a forest of regulations. I said in my first reading, I wouldn't want it to happen to us that today we're going to pass the law, and tomorrow we're going to write HitroRez to break those regulations. However, in my first reading, I was very happy because I came across three things in my first reading. These three things were harmony, meaning agreement based on compliance with three important strategies. The first policy is to develop a public private partnership that is no longer available in the second reading, so now I ask the question whether the policy of public private partnership development has given up? The second is the National Strategy for Regional Development, which is not available in this reading, and I wonder whether it gave up the National Regional Development Strategy in the meantime? And the third, which I am particularly pleased with and for the first time I have seen this strategy has seen a national development strategy. Something we want, where we want Croatia to be in five or ten years. And I was happy that finally for the first time in a document I saw something called a national development strategy. And now that he's gone in this document, I'm sad, it really makes me sad. However, what needs to be answered and what answers should be given is not specific articles and details of this law but how our law enforcement institutions are prepared. I believe the director of the agency will be a fair and just man who will work best in the interests of everyone, especially the local self-government units to realize their projects. But how have certain ministries been prepared? On behalf of the ministry, who will decide on compliance with what is called sectoral development plans and strategies here. Where are the sectoral development plans and strategies, is it even there? I didn't see that. Who in the ministries will give consent. We have government regulations that leave great opportunity for discretionary decision-making rights. That's what we put an accent on. I shall, in particular, put an emphasis on Article 18 where the Agency will, by means of a Regulation referred to in paragraph 2, designate the authorising officer to access the register and the scope of the right to access the data contained in the register. Well, wouldn't every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to public private partnership, have an insight into what a register for public-private partnership projects is. Because it means civil. He has a public right to have insight. And that is why I appeal, and to you in the ministry, I also appeal to the representatives of this House to accept the amendment that the SDP Club has given to allow everyone to have access to the register rather than to have the agency autonomously decide who will have access to the PPP registry. Because that way you can get into a situation, you can act as the government that certain contracts will be hidden from the public. The SDP Club and I would personally support this law if in the last few months things had happened that could give us guarantees that this law would lie on fertile soil, i.e. it would be realised without these discretionary grounds. But unfortunately, I must remind you that in the last few months we have voted in this House on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia a few laws that directly affect and reduce powers and fiscally centralise local self-government units. That's how you do it, for example. The units of local self-government can no longer be charged without the consent of the finance minister. Thus, primary and secondary school directors can no longer be appointed without a minister, although the ministry is not their founder. How to, for example. the units of local self-government and public sector companies restrict their responsibilities and that is not an equal market status. That's how it is, for example. The untaxable part of the income that was increased from 1600 to 1800 kuna went directly to the damages of local self-government units that was data from the Ministry of Finance, I didn't write it. The Department of Finance gentlemen wrote it in the introduction. That's how it is, for example. And by the law of... profit tax some part of the funds reduced to local self-government units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is why I will remind you four months ago that it speaks of fiscal decentralisation and the increase of powers, I am afraid, and I can in some way guarantee that the total amount of income of local self-government units will no longer be 16%, but it will be 15% or 14% because of the set of these laws. And what I would like to warn you is that people do not think that the European Commission, or European institutions, is not following it. They're right on the tail, they're right on the tail! And it is necessary to decentralisation, which is why, because of the set of these laws, we can't go from believing that this law on public-private partnership will be different, therefore, that it will not be reached for certain discretionary criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19211	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19212	Well, it's an incorrect assumption that the agency will have an absolute right to give information to, to whom they won't give information. Its right will be governed and governed by both law and sublaw, therefore, there is absolutely no absolute right, will, and in this sense no dissertation law. I am correcting this incorrect allegation and, in that sense, thinking now from the SDP Representatives Club that this law is not necessary. Now that we have a bill that regulates this matter in a quality way, now we are thinking that it is not necessary, and we have listened to the debate on how precisely on this side, how absolutely necessary this law is and how in the power of public-private partnership we will always have gray zones until we pass that law. And now that we're bringing it in, when we're coordinating the institutes, then that government initiative is resisting it again. I don't see the stairways logical, I don't see any reason why you're doing it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19213	Replica, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19214	Well, since my colleague Bernardic mentioned some things, I've been asked to replicate. Namely, 5. The 11th report will go before the European Commission on the state of development of candidate relations, potential candidates for accession to the European Union. In a draft, which has been orbiting the European Union for a month now, with everything that remains to be put to us as a minus, with positive emphasis on positive development, continues to put a minus of corruption, judiciary, the return of exiled and refugees, the new thing is decentralisation regional and local. And I am surprised and surprised that the representatives of certain institutions that appear as proposing certain acts don't care about what it is and in the last part of the exhibition, Mr Bernardic said that, in fact, all of our acts are being followed by the European Commission and the European Union and that we will really be brought up with a lot of those laws that we have passed, which we voted in the situation that very soon after the New Year we will have to make adjustments that will be on the trail of compliance with the European Charter that we have voted on but we do not apply it. And I therefore call on us not to put ourselves in a position where the Parliament has discussed the same laws twice, three times, in order to adapt to the process of decentralisation of regional and local self-government, to take those facts into account and to put them into legal acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19215	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19216	My esteemed colleague, Hanzek, was just my intruder. So that we do not make it difficult for ourselves to go to the European Union with laws that go directly to centralisation. It is therefore necessary to bring all the laws in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. And that's why I have to say that I'm actually unhappy that compared to the first reading because there's no such thing as the National Strategy for Regional Development. I expected her to be before the second reading. That there is no national development strategy. I expected it to be before the second reading and that there was no policy to develop a public-private partnership I also expected it to be before the second reading because these were the components of the documents in the first reading. And I agree with you here, and what is certain is that the European Commission is concerned that each candidate country is going towards decentralisation. What will still have to be answered is the question of putting the guidelines into effect. I did not say that the law in one part is unnecessary but it is unnecessary to have both the law and the guidelines and, in some ways, the representatives of the ministry have to answer in which way certain guidelines will be put in that part of the force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19217	Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19218	Dear Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to say about this new Law on Public Private Partnership. What is prescribed by this law? The law therefore lays down basic concepts in which it is particularly important to define a public-private partnership which forms the basis of an evaluation which projects can be considered as public private partnership projects within the meaning of this law, where the basic prerequisite is that the purpose of the projects is to provide services within the competence of public authority. The adoption of this law should also provide for which public authorities and how do they choose projects to be implemented according to the model of public private partnership? What is the methodology of its realization? Control mechanisms relating to the verification of compliance of proposed projects with the political and development priorities outlined, better supervision of fiscal risks, transparency in selecting a private partner, and so on. What I would like to emphasise is what is important and what is important is that the procedure for the approval of the project proposals has been simplified in such a way as to reduce the number of opinions that can be obtained, they must obtain and strengthen the role of the Ministry of Finance, which gives consent to the project proposal and not just the opinion as stated in the text of the proposal. In any case, I think it is necessary and I will look back at this article because we are aware that some units of local, regional and regional self-government have become over-indebted and I think it is certainly necessary for the Ministry of Finance to give its opinion that it would not happen if I didn't say some municipalities or cities, that I don't say bankruptcy. I'd like to look back here for some previous debates and say that from my point of view. Here's Mr. Caine talking that building conditions offices or what we say construction permits should do in four shifts. I don't think we should work because here's the new law is, these powers have been allocated to counties and larger cities and from the experience I have in these past few months I can say that new people who couldn't unfortunately get a job in, while these offices have been under the authority of the ministry because we know that the Law on salaries to tenants and officials unfortunately didn't allow it. In this way, much larger numbers and much easier to hire these professional people who unfortunately are very difficult to find in Zagreb and the surrounding area. These are building engineers and architects who are doing these jobs and I think that in this way we will be able to give higher wages in larger cities and counties, so surely they will get them in those jobs, so they will certainly contribute greatly and thus contribute to the very same, those requirements that were a problem in issuing a building permit due to the slowness to be accelerated. What I have to say is that perhaps we ourselves who run the local self-government units have some problems and that in any case we have to bring them in line with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which was adopted here last year so that we too have to coordinate our spatial plans with the new law in order to make it easier for investors to invest in our areas, so I say and there is in some way our one responsibility, and not just the responsibility of the state as it was said. ... the construction of sports halls in our Croatian area in cities where they are now being built by a public-private partnership system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree that these halls should be built and I think the halls are useful and because of the great world event that we've won, and that's the world handball championship, and I think those halls will certainly be filled in their future, and they'll be worth it because they're better off having kids in our halls and doing sports than being in our, on the street, I don't know, cafes and I don't know where else. I must also conclude that because of the war and, unfortunately, before the war, it was unfortunately not enough to invest in that infrastructure of ours until a few years ago, and I consider it to be kindergartens, schools, halls and all that is necessary for the functioning, well-functioning and ensuring the conditions of our citizens. I hope that this Law on Public-private Partnership will make it much simpler and that it will be much easier to realise. What I have to say here is that I have an example in my community where I am in front of one such, one such project of public-private partnership, which means building a municipal centre that would get a kindergarten in that municipality center, that would get a market, a post office, a bank, a space for municipal administration and all that a municipality of 7,000 inhabitants needs, so this is not just a public private partnership project for the rich. I believe that in this way, it will be possible for those less-rich municipalities or cities to enter such projects because by building one of these, here's an example of me in the community centre, I think that the value and the real estate and the movables that are said will certainly increase, and thus we will attract safe investors and the population will increase. And in this way we will certainly be able to recover certain responsibilities that would have meaning according to this public-private partnership project. This is because of this above, I will support the adoption of the Law on Public-private Partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19219	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would only ask one rhetorical question before I move on to the debate on this agenda point, to surprise me, because I have listened carefully to the presentation of my colleagues, to surprise me in a certain way one way to say so in the presentation of this project, i.e. this law, and in a certain way the statements of some colleagues about him and the position of the general club they represent. So, we haven't heard before, we haven't really heard anything big, thorough, and directed against this law. In fact, almost all the positive things the world’s practice is talking about. But there are some clubs that are abstentions and that's better than being against them. Unfortunately, though, politics is such that even when something is truly of public interest and when it is good, we dare not go any further and say good is what you do. I think you really need to tell government representatives here what to do, because here from mine I don't know a brief review and dealing with this matter I'm not an expert on it, nor do I imagine in that direction. However, I saw among other things what others have, what others think and what others do when it comes to public-private partnership. So among all the definitions that exist here that we can reach a public-private partnership can be reduced to two, and that is precisely why we need to give support to this law. According to an interesting public-private partnership, the interest of public institution and private partner or even better, public-private partnership is to invest private money to create public goods or provide public services. Therefore, every society, every country in this world, regardless of its level of development, absolutely needs one another, and the interests of the general public. When I looked at what others were doing and what others were doing in this field, then I saw that, for example, one Ireland that is certainly an example for us and could be a country example for several reasons, and also because of another one that I specifically looked back on, so I decided to talk about this point of the agenda there are therefore common features and particularities when it comes to, which can be compared to the Republic of Croatia. So they envisioned their national development plan from 2000 to 2006 a place of public-private partnership as an important place, an important instrument in raising public infrastructure and the general quality of life in Ireland. They also have a special unit at the Ministry of Finance, etc. However, more significant data are that they allocated about 5.5 billion euros from the budget to public-private partnership projects during the period. So now you can imagine how invested it is by private partners. So how many countries have only participated in this segment. In the UK, as much as 10% of all infrastructure projects are waste on a public-private partnership. Characteristics and the basic reason why indeed we sitting on this side of the assembly are specifically for this law and we are supporting it is because, in fact, public-private partnerships complete projects on time and, in the context of the envisaged funds, it would also be said by encouraging foreign investment. So this is simply creating a framework, a safe framework for investors and calling people from the world come and invest in Croatia. So this matter is regulated. She's safe. Your resources will be provided and you will benefit from this. I am taking the opportunity that, as other colleagues here have spoken before me and called on their electoral units from which they come, that on behalf of the 11th electoral unit, so those units that refer to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia say that this is an opportunity, a kind of opportunity for a truly Croatian new deal. So, I ask you, from the Government, to use this opportunity and that chance I would say that indeed all those who once through history from the Croatian state, therefore or generally from Croatian spaces wherever the Croats lived went, for political reasons why they gained knowledge, experience and money because of the economics in the world and in this world. And now they rule one and the other and the third, and they rule for sure and love for the country. It's just that it's a chance to invite these people and tell them to come, invest, and your resources will be safe. Until now, it has often happened that people like that and others, regardless of who they were, and they come from abroad, have given up on investments or have actually been slowed down on the first step for reasons that this matter has not been regulated. Therefore, regulation of this matter ensures everything that someone who has money, who has knowledge I repeat and further love for the homeland is actually calling for safe investment and construction of Croatia. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19221	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mrs. Representative Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19222	Thank you. Dear colleague Bagariæ, unfortunately I must conclude that you have at least one incorrect claim, which is when you claimed that the colleagues who discussed my club of representatives did not have any concrete objections to this law. There have been a whole series of concrete, very serious objections to this law, although we will be as a club abstention, and first of all, as far as I'm concerned I'm personally the most concerned that this bill further centralises our country and that I say that to our country, because I know that you will appreciate that term. And most of all, the other thing about developing the whole forest of rules on this matter is that it certainly won't make our job any easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19223	Replica, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19224	I'll be replicating a respected, respected colleague, Bagaric. Well, I'm actually, the first thing I have to say is you were talking about discrimination. So how can we be in discrepancy when we first suggest it? Well, when you make the first suggestion, I guess you want the law. And it is known that social Democrats all over Europe have hit the foundations of a public-private partnership, so we have first proposed, and we are glad that you have accepted this with guidelines on public-private partnership, because it in some way gives hope and other suggestions that we may suggest that, in due course, two or three days will be found eventually accepted. The other thing is, you said I wasn't in some way, and we colleagues explained why we disagree specifically. Well, I've been counting on you for what I've done, at least 15 concrete things I've listed, which is why we specifically disagree, and you would have convinced us and we would have trusted you out, but when you sent out a dozen laws that go directly towards centralization, which are contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, we can't believe you, but if you'd sent those laws towards decentralisation, in the direction of local self-government units, we would now raise your thumbs and tell you, bravo for this law because ultimately this law and public-private partnership as such in Croatia came from us and we first initiated it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19225	Replica reply, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19226	Dear colleague, your proposing this bill is actually a confirmation of what I just said. So, since you've also proposed, and you've proposed, so you've stood up for this law, if you want first, here. That's why you're more supportive of him and that you're eager for because you know, deep down, that this is good material, but I understand, I didn't say that you didn't explain anything, but I said that there was no fundamental reason why you would be against it. So it's just finesse and not so much important stuff. I disagree that this law will centralise Croatia. I don't really think so. It's one subjective assessment you're entitled to, but it doesn't agree with it. Therefore, I did not condemn your restraint. I said it was much better than being against it. Therefore, regardless, here we are building the next day in practice the consequences of this law, i.e. to correct and if there are any shortcomings and let us really have another instrument to help develop Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19227	Thank you very much. Yes, when they're in the depths of the soul, and the eyes are the mirror of the soul. And another replica, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I am glad that my colleague Bagarić also realized that we had proposed this and that he had now admitted it in this replica, but what concerns me and what he is saying in favour of this law is strictly centralised is the discretionary powers given to the agency, the board of directors of the agency, that during the process, means at the first moment when you are approved by the project, they are in the second two steps again able to hitchhike the project. So I'm worried. You said that there are many Croats outside the country who would very much like to invest money and in cooperation with a public partner in Croatia, I support it, and I believe that there are such Croats who would like to invest in the Homeland, but I am convinced that this law will make them impossible because any additional red tape, any further disabling of certain work that will extend the procedure because we now have a procedure that lasts about 18 months, this procedure will extend to 3 and a few years. So it's not easy to match the H.I.T.R.S. that this government has announced. This is where the additional administrative difficulties are imposed. As a matter of fact, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, we would support a law that would go towards promoting such a way of investment to be more than 4 investments in a public-private partnership last year. I am convinced that with this law there will be fewer, and that discretionary ones will be able to use examples where local authorities are in co-operation with the state government, that projects will go, and that it is possible to hitchhike where it will not be in the same situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19229	Replica reply, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19230	Comrade Maras, I have no doubt that you know this matter better than I do that what you say has a basis. But you should agree with me that the matter that was so far existed was even more scarce, so this is a contribution to editing this space, so I don't start from being an expert, but I know that no project, no material is perfect. It's not this law either, that's for sure. Therefore, time will show and there is no problem that the next day in practice, I don't know either when simply given Croatia's scarce practice in this segment of investment, when there is some weakness, I think all these people here will be available from the government, and we here agree on the fact that in time we actually intervene and change things in the direction you just said, especially because of foreign investment, and our public benefits here. And in that package, and because of the meaning of countrymen living from the Fireland to Australia, you'd say. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19231	Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So here, when we talk about a public-private partnership, I'm sorry that the HDSSB can't say it was first, so then the second, actually me, I feel better in the depth of my soul, the need to maybe propose some kind of law on sanctioning thieving the public-private partnership that can happen. Unfortunately, you have to understand, I have a negative experience with a public-private partnership on a specific project. And as far as law enforcement is concerned, this law is practically not something new to me. It is not Croatia that has not been regulated, not at this level of the law, how and how to enter into some kind of public-private, or public-private partnership project. We had a guideline. In addition, these guidelines also indicated that when entering a PPP project the same crucial role is played by the state, the competent ministry is agreements when we speak, and there were handball halls made according to the model of the PPP for the World Handball Championship. Not everything. Those who have actually had experience, have worked outside the public-private partnership model because they have assessed, and they are in very high positions of the executive government in the state, so they have estimated that these halls that they work for and have influence and could avoid public-private partnerships will be significantly cheaper for the local self-government unit, but not only for the local self-government unit but also for the state. So it's a good idea. It's a good idea. It's not new. There are 20 years in Europe to apply it. The British seem to me, no matter who first entered these models, right, but the fact is that we are the seventh or eighth countries in Europe to have this kind of public-private partnership law. It's true and it bothers me that this law is extremely centralised, and besides for me, it's not a surprise. So we have a mass of laws that are centralized, a law that determines important matters of state, and so does this law. Someone mentioned the Privatisation Fund. There at the Privatisation Fund, the same sits on the board of ministers, of course the ruling party, which is completely legitimate, democratic and in the elections have been given the confidence to form a government, it has been formed and thus managed by the Privatisation Fund. The public-private partnership agency is actually something, let's look like an egg. The agency, which also has ministers on the board of directors, will, according to the logic of the party line, be the administration of public-private partnerships agencies, so they will determine where, where and how and how the projects will be done by units of local self-government in cities, by municipalities, and therefore give the green light whether one project can pass or not. I'm simplifying it actually in that final. Of course, we have competition control, election control, I don't know as soon as I do, and that's what we had at the handball hall that's going to end up in Osijek, the same situation. It was the same control by the departments in charge. They also had insight into implementation from choosing a private partner to choosing a private partner and finally there was that famous financing agreement for the "City Garden" gym and the state agreed to such funding. That's true and that's true. The agreement on co-financing of the "City Garden" school hall in Osijek gained the principle of consent, before the prime minister's signing, or by the mayor of the city of Osijek. Can you imagine the price? 843 million kuna. And then we said it was a little too much. But the state is behind this and the model of a public-private partnership to build handball halls around Croatia, because Osijek is not an exception. The agreement is concluded for both Split and Zagreb and Varazdin. On a concrete example, I will not enter and quote the figures in Zagreb, Varazdin and needlessly to these other places. But the fact is also that in Osijek, Slavonia and Baranja, we didn't allow a hall to be built by such a model, according to the model where we're going to cash 843 million kuna together with the state. Half. So do you know what money is and how many halls in Slavonia and Baranja for that money to bring the children into the halls, how many halls can be made for 843 million kuna. To make things more beautiful, it's known that there was a crisis of power. It is known that the city council is disbanded, but I am talking about a public-private partnership. I just want to say that with 843 million kuna construction and the equipment of this hall in Osijek ended at 170 million. Well, now the difference between 843 and 170 is very large. But I'll go one step further. The construction and fitting of this hall on bank interest and debt is also half as small. Then explain to me by including the maintenance room, so there's no confusion. It means holding the hall if you want to at the Osijek hall at the same height, or even less than that potential private partner has calculated in price over 25 years. That's what this is about. So a public-private partnership if this law, the idea is not good but needs to legally shape and by law establish some rules of the game. But that this law is centralised, that public-private partnerships and projects will be decided by the state, that the political party in power will decide, that it will favour those municipalities, cities and counties where they are in power or where they have ambition before the elections to win as many voters as possible because of such projects, it will certainly happen. Therefore, if the fundamental commitment of this government, including us all here in the Parliament, is as fast as possible to join the European Union, and the European Union is just looking for decentralisation especially in the financial part, I don't really know what motivated the promoters to present one law in this way and in this way, in fact, highly centralises that it once again leaves the possibility of a state government to decide on the projects needed by municipalities, cities and counties. I think in our units of local self-government, i.e. regionally sitting in executive power, a local, very smart people who know how to assess what's in the interest of the municipality, the city or the county, that they know how to judge their fiscal capacity and the municipalities and their municipalities, both the city and the county. Of course, the state has to take care of the generality, but not in this way that every point is decided by the Bane Courts, or through the Public-private Partnership Agency, and that, in all its signature, the one who will lead the Public-private Partnership Agency, i.e. the Prime Minister, should put his own cop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19233	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19234	Thank you very much. Mr. Šišljagić, at the beginning of your presentation, you asked a question so that you were not a question but a finding that you were asked to propose a law that would sanction a thief in a certain part of which you suspected in some examples of a public-private partnership. I think that we in Croatia have enough laws that could sanction it and I don't know what should be done and who should react to ask why the City Sports Hall in Varazdin cost 750 million kuna. A hall with 20,000 square meters, 5,000 seats. What kind of price is that? 750 million kuna. And what does that pay for the next 25 years? You're right, the government was behind the project, as well as the three construction projects of such a hall last year. And maybe I could help you because here I am reading these data from the government's response to the representative question of fellow Members of the Zvonimir Mršić, which all sports halls are building in Croatia. Then I'll give you an answer to your other question, how many schools and others could be built. The hall is also built in a public-private partnership between the partners of the Varazdin County and the town of Varazdin and Zagorje Tehnobeton. So, sports hall II. High school and Elektro-power school in Varazdin of 1200 square meters costing 8.5 million kuna. So, a hundred of these halls, like we did for high schools in Varazdin, we can make all over Croatia for one handball hall that we have now made in Varazdin and some Croatian citizens, and we all wonder together whether it's really worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19235	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19236	Here's a thank you, colleagues. Yes, that is what it is, in fact, that this is the law, as the opportunity has said, an opportunity for Croatia's "new deal". But really, this is an opportunity for the mob's new deal, an opportunity for organized crime. You'll all agree to that. I'm not talking about some party being blamed for it. I'm not saying this law has no good intentions. But the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on concessions and this Law on Public-private Partnership, the basis of these laws or by bypassing members, the provision of these laws is, in fact, what we are saying and what we discussed in this Croatian Assembly the other day, that there are fingers of organised crime. And why am I saying that? Because I expected both the state's attorney's office and the USKOK to pay close attention to what was going on in the public-private partnership model in the construction of handball halls for one simple reason that several fellow MPs here said that these are enormous prices that actually cost a man his mind. Well, here's another call, gentlemen of the U.S.C.O., from the police, you're interested in what's going on with the public-private partnership model in handball halls that work and end up in that model.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19237	Ms. Representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19238	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. Here, to spin you in the head of all these numbers of halls. I'm going to lower the level of controversy in my debate, but I have to say that we built a very nice sports hall in Umag for a basic school center for a cheap 16 million kuna. The team's coming to play handball with us. So today we're discussing a public-private partnership and its general normation, which we've all welcomed. More or less in our debates, but also about his in my court, I must repeat, excessive centralization. I believe that this law is another brick in the lift of the bastion of centralization, which is the stronger centralization of our state. I'll try to explain it, so I'm on my way. Over the past few years or so, it has been shown in Croatia for decades, but also beyond that in Europe, more and more clearly that authorities cannot meet the growing needs of citizens for services alone and that they need the support of other sectors in society. It's inevitable because society is developing, its public needs are branching out, and it's perfectly normal and understandable, and that's how it should go. A public-private partnership, short for how we all like to call it JPP, is one of the promising forms of such cooperation between the private and public parts of society. It is based on identifying the benefits that public and private sectors can have from pooling financial resources, knowledge and expertise in order to improve basic services for all citizens. In addition, the public-private partnership represents an alternative to full privatisation by combining both sectors' benefits in such a way that social responsibility, awareness, in the need of environmental protection and public responsibility of the public sector is combined with financing, technology, efficient governance and the entrepreneurial spirit of the private sector. In this context, under a public-private partnership, a whole spectrum of possible relations between the government or the public sector and other organisations other than the government or private sector is meant to implement projects or provide services to citizens. The Community plays a direct role in such engagement as the user, e.g. expressing the price that the community is willing to pay for an acceptable level of services requested, but also has an indirect role to play in considering the development policy of its own end. The public sector should set up an appropriate legal framework for the negotiation and implementation of public procurement and for the investment of the private sector. But not as we have already established here to plant entire forest regulations through which it will be very difficult to break through, especially for those smaller units of local self-government. It is very important to introduce appropriate mechanisms to reduce the potential for corruption in any public procurement process. Unforeseeable and non-fer procurement procedures reduce the political acceptability and interest of many private investors for a public-private partnership. So, a very important regulatory framework is and the government must set up a clear regulatory framework, but only this creation of a regulatory framework does not necessarily guarantee the effective regulation of this matter. Since we have a very large number of local self-governments and they are very different, public and private sectors will meet a whole series of torture and learning to try to define and regulate their relationship and their roles in providing services. In particular, the public sector should define a clear allocation of responsibilities between the national government and local self-government, and make public its role as the one that provides and regulates this proposal regulated. This proposal puts a focus on my court's role as central government. Generally, as regards private companies, they prefer to put everything into contracts that serve as the main regulatory mechanism, and that local self-government has a very limited right to regulatory discretion once the contracts are signed. Detailed specific provisions setting out the responsibilities and objectives to be achieved, price measurement rules and misunderstandings allow the private sector to be better able to foresee the profitability of the undertaking, and to decide whether or not they want to compete for certain contracts. In view of this, authorities must make an important decision on the degree of regulatory discretion that is ready to give up especially in the case of long-term contracts. Another very important fact when we talk about public private partnership is the political environment. It is as important as I have already said regulatory climate, but the political climate is crucial for the good functioning of public private partnerships, the political climate must be without, should not be conditioned on various political pressures, no pressure on the corruption of special agendas of government officials, and special status of certain services such as this. Let's say a very sensitive approach to water, which can create major barriers to starting or maintaining proper development of public private cooperation. Authorities need where it is possible to guarantee private partners that such political factors will not be and that they will not lead to the termination of the contractual processes. There were also words here about the European Commission's guidelines, so here's what I can do about it. The Commission has published guidelines with legal interpretations of the legal provisions on the assignment of jobs to private businesses on projects of public private partnership, and in particular to remove legal uncertainty which often monitors such projects. So we're not the first ones to face it. The institutionalised public private partnership is an undertaking involving public employees of the sector on projects of public interest and I repeat it mostly at local level. In its own time, the European Commission has published guidelines explaining the European rules applicable to such institutionalised public private partnerships. This creates greater legal certainty, not only for the public sector, but also for private investors. The broad public debate on the subject highlighted the need for clarification on how the European acquis is applied in the establishment of these institutionalised public private partnerships, and the published guidelines of the European Commission provide practical guidance to increase legal certainty for both the public and private sectors. According to the Commission's interpretation at the time, the legislative provisions on calling, e.g. The tender provides an appropriate framework for the establishment of public private partnerships and does not require European regulations, for example. double tenders, one for the selection of private, the other for the selection of public partners for the conclusion of a public contract or for the award of, for example, a concession in cases where the project is entrusted to a public private partnership. In order to benefit from the maximum benefit of such a partnership, the Commission specifically stressed the need for private partners to be selected on the basis of a fair and transparent procedure. I think there was at least one word in the debate here today. Because when we talk about a public private partnership, first of all, it's necessary to remove the dilemma that it's some kind of scam in some kind of blurry money. It is not necessary to say that this law is harmonised, we should not refer to the European acquis, because I repeat, we have guidelines. I see my time is running out, so I'm gonna cut it short. I would like to stress that I am afraid that once again the units of local self-government that may not be so politically similar or have such powers that will not correspond to the central authorities, I am afraid that they will find it more difficult to come to the various agreement of the ministry as the ministries, which agencies. Is that the deformation of us Istrians here in the Parliament? We don't know that. I may have been infected by my colleague Caine, but I'm also afraid it will be one of the main problems of implementing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19239	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's colleague Vrbat talking about clearly stating wrongly, that or incorrectly, there's a bastion centralization here, which is definitely not true, and especially in this example. In fact, we're witnessing an uncontrollable borrowing of local self-government, and I think that in any case the state has to take care of it. Furthermore, we are witnessing that numerous units of local self-government do not have their own personnel that can help. And it's this law that gradually defines all procedures in a public private partnership, and I really don't see why you're mentioning the wrong all over again, that it's not a good political climate, that there are political pressures, if that's an alibi of some kind. You can do this or that, but I don't like when you're incorrectly citing a whole series of things just to show that there's nothing wrong with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19241	SDP representative's club has five minutes of debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19242	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues from the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the final. After the debate to say that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will remain abstention in the vote of this law, not because it does not want to regulate the area of public procurement, not because it does not want public procurement in Croatia to be used anymore, that citizens at local level benefit from this form of investment in their public needs, but because we consider this to be another one in a series of laws that goes towards decentralisation of Croatia, i.e. to reduce the influence of local units on what they should decide on a daily basis. So we want to regulate this area we want more investment to the PPP, we want cheaper investment in the PPP, but we don't want to, we don't want to, and we're worried about the obvious disagreement between local self-government and government promoters, because today we haven't heard one important piece of information, which is that this law didn't get the support of the Committee on Local Self-Government where it sits and not party experts, so they didn't get the support for this bill, not that the law should, because we are all aware that there are some things that need to be regulated in this area, but they didn't get the support that this law and this bill pass the vote at the Croatian Parliament. So we think it's not good and most units of local self-government will choose a classic investment model because the JPP will be more expensive because we haven't added additional benefits that would encourage local units to invest in this way. But that exactly the opposite of this law will contribute to further bureaucratizing the process, to make it harder, to be longer for investors is time, ladies and gentlemen, very important, if we raise time from 18 months to three years, it is a clear message to investors that it will be harder to invest, that it will not, that it will not come before the completion of the job, on the other hand it is in dissension with Mr Sanader's speech yesterday, which specifically pointed out by HitroRez this is exactly the opposite, I would call a slow, slow tax that will lead to the whole process taking much more than it has ever been. And for all these reasons, the SDP Club will be against adoption, i.e. it will be abstention in the adoption of this law and we believe, and we hope that when the law is applied, when we see this, everything we have warned that these illogicalities and these shortcomings will be corrected in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19243	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19244	Here, I have to correct the incorrect quote of fellow Maras, but before that, I'll quote which one. Says counterpart Maras: “This law reduces the right of local self-government units to do what they should do daily. ” Well, first of all, I don't believe we go to a public private partnership every day because we know that part of the local self-government unit is going to solve the problems around kindergartens, schools, halls, I don't know, and buildings, administrative buildings and the like. That's one thing. And secondly, you should understand in this law that increasing security for both partners and that only a firm contract can lead to the realisation of a public-private partnership, that I am not talking about the entire course of a contract that can generally be, we have seen here, for 30 years, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19245	Final review, State Secretary Tamara Obradović-Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19246	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank the honourable parliamentary representatives for a truly good debate. About the debate that has a common denominator of the interest of our citizens whatever the comments are, the comments are summed up, I would say on the care of public funds, the funds that make up our citizens' money and it is good that our citizens during the morning and on the one hand and on the other hand can actually see that its common denominator and pattern that could be noticed in this very good debate is actually a concern for their funds and their money. In this segment, this law, which is of course bound by other laws in the implementation, particularly when it comes to the borrowing of units of local self-government, wants to reconcile, as well as other specific regulations, it wants to reconcile wishes and opportunities. If the wishes are too high and in accordance with the possibility then you know that by law the burden of the state budget or the state budget assumes that execution on, conditionally speaking, its back. Both in this segment and in this law and in addition to obtaining previous opinions and, of course, with one fiscal risk assessment by the Ministry of Finance, it wants to bring into harmony what on the one hand wishes, on the other hand, the possibility. Of course, we know how this ends, by law, if the units of local self-government take on a greater burden than what can be realistically, fiscally in one year at all. Therefore, this law only seeks to balance itself with existing rules and to bring into line with the obligations which are assumed to be higher than the amount of income available. In this segment, when I have already mentioned other laws, and the tax harmonisation has been mentioned, i.e. harmonisation with other regulations, including double taxation, the takeover of buildings and the collection of real estate taxes by the Government through the adoption of its action plan, which it also presented to the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations, which is that after the adoption of the Law on concessions, on the one hand, the Law on Public-private Partnership, conducts an internal screening of its own, internal screening, that is, the detection of all laws which, in one way or another, would undermine the smooth application of the Law on concessions, i.e. the Law on Public Private Partnership. In June, the document was adopted and, according to our action plan, by the adoption of both laws, therefore, concessions and public-private partnerships, the Government has access to the detection of those provisions under which the Law on PPP, or the Law on concessions, which must be aligned with them. So the problem, of course, will be brought into that coordination, i.e. it will be covered and subjected to such an internal investigation. In truth, so as not to add to the burden of a private, or public, public, public partner. Furthermore, there was, I'll do a few reviews, I believe I'll miss an absolute look at all the remarks, but I'd just like to draw attention, the distinguished representative mentioned the partner as an institute that may not be timely in today's era, but that's the institute we've taken over from the Law on Mandatory Relations, an old contract law institute, so the partner who's been present in this segment has been mentioned a lot of history in this House today, so since, since, since we were in the Austrian legal system. As regards the transfer of ownership rights, therefore, the concern that property under real rights would be transferred to a private partner absolutely not and never, because the transfer of ownership rights, i.e. the violation of ownership rights to a private partner in that segment of interference, is absolutely contrary to being a public-private partnership. We can talk about contract law built, or we can talk about the right of service, but we can talk about transfer of ownership rights, of course not. As for the entry itself, i.e. dedicated to investment through a public private partnership, I would like to mention two things. Entering a public private partnership is a business decision, on the one hand, by a private partner. Therefore, the public private partnership will be taught by the one who assesses it to be financially profitable. In particular, one who currently does not have enough money, or one who concludes that between taking loans or loans and on the other hand of a public-private partnership, it is financially more profitable to have a public-private partnership instrument. With what the public partner believes he needs through the form of a public-private partnership, he will be subject to his contract. In this segment, the Government or the Public Private Partnership Agency will neither impose priorities nor determine in this case a unit of local self-government which is its priorities in the design of a public-private partnership, nor will a catalogue of services that the local self-government unit can use in the JPP instrument, which is absolutely contrary to the principle of self-registration and decentralisation that has been so concerned. As regards the simultaneous existence of guidelines and the Law on Public-private Partnership, the law of physics may not allow such two documents to exist at the same time in the same space. I believe it's in physics, plus, plus that they refuse and do not attract. However, legality does not allow a legal act to take its place in its legal capacity to form a legal vacuum. In that segment, 8 days from the date of entry into force of this law, the Government must withdraw guidelines that will continue to exist until the date of entry into force of this law as legal, what such legal instructional form of regulation of this part. So what we must do, of course, in order to enable the entry into force of this law and at the same time escape from one side the legal gap and double regulation is to withdraw those guidelines. As for mentioning three strategies, yes, they did exist in the first reading. We referred in Article 11 to 3 of the strategy, however, our fellow lawyers suggested that we leave them out of the text in a second reading, and as a competent resolution, I am pleased to say that tomorrow, in 12 PPP development strategies, they are going into formal adoption procedures. As for future projects, I have an opportunity to announce that so to speak in... i.e. from the future reported or expressed interests for the public-private partnership of the current calculation which can, of course, be corrected over time in the next five-year period from transport infrastructure, environmental protection, energy, urban infrastructure as well as the construction of accompanying facilities for the time being, according to public-private projects, public-private partnership projects, the projection of investments is approximately 10, 10% of GDP in the next, in the next 5 years so that we have no fear that there will be no public-private partnership projects in the coming years and the aim is that the process does not actually last for more than a year and not three, as could be heard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that segment, I would conclude with what the esteemed representative Bagarić said that only the practice of the Empire and the experience can show whether this law is a good solution? Do you need it fixed in some segments? While we will not have the first results, the first application can, of course, only be theoretical in some way. Let's let practice develop. We see where it's potentially creaking, where there's room for promotion, and of course we're not running away from repairing where it can be fixed. Thank you again for the discussion and for all the reviews you've given today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19247	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19248	We're continuing the session by voting these agenda points, and then we're going to go on a well-deserved weekend. Here I think we should keep it going right now so we don't run away. We have a final proposal for a law on public private partnership. There was a second reading of P.Z.E. Number 126. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the SDP Representatives' Club and MP Elmin Tomljanovic. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments made by Mrs Tamara Obradović-Mazal, State Secretary, Amendment No 1. to Article 12. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19249	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19250	Sustained. This amendment therefore represents the entry into the draft law. So on Article 15 of Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19251	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19252	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 3 to Article 22?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19253	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19254	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 4th Amendment to Article 23?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19255	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19256	Thank you. So it becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 5 to Article 24?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19257	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19258	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 6 to Article 25?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19259	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19260	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 7 on Article 30?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19261	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19262	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 8 on Article 36?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19263	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19264	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 9th to Article 40?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19265	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19266	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 10th of Article 42?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19267	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 11th in Article 44?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19268	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The SDP representative's club shall be referred to in Article 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19269	Mr. President, since the amendment in part corresponds to the amendment of the esteemed representative Tomljanovic, partly identical with the adoption of amendments submitted by the esteemed representative Tomljanovic, in one part of the statement, would also accept this amendment by the SDP Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19270	In the words of Mr. Tomljanović, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19271	In the words of Mr. Tomljanović. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19272	SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19273	Is there any need for an explanation? We thought that after these words that came ten, 15 minutes that would not require an explanation. We are looking at the SDP Club for the purpose of our amendment is to make business with the state transparent. Yes, every secret is an opportunity for the mob. Did we just say how to deal with the state? Where did the dirty money come from? Well, it's not the mob and organized crime that goofs itself. They win and want to put dirty money in legal flows. And that's why business with the state has to be transparent, it has to be public and clear. This cannot be left to the register nor to the restriction as you mention this amendment to be a business secret. Doing business with the state when it comes to state property isn't a business secret. We don't care and it can be a business secret when two private companies do business with each other. When dealing with the state of such registers, such a business if the government really means what it said half an hour ago, then I think this amendment has been established and justified. Fighting organised crime, fighting the mafia, fighting money launderers requires a transparent business with the state. Please vote unless you change your mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19274	Please, I'm putting the amendment of the SDP Representatives' Club to the vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment... It's becoming an integral part. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. So Mr Emil Tomljanovic's amendment was accepted. I put to the vote the final proposal for a law on public-private partnership. Please, let's get on with it. What? The quorum. 110 MPs. So let's get involved and vote on the law. Thank you. The result? The law was adopted by a majority of 78 votes in favour, 28 abstentions and 3 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19275	We go to the following point: - Proposal for a law on general administrative procedure, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 168 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration, the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice and Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Representative of Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Administration Zoran Piculjan will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19276	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After more than a year, a year and a half of work on the draft bill of law which, for the administration, for the functioning of the administration at all its levels from central to local means really much. You have before you the Law on General Administrative Procedure of the Law... which is valid, practically in Croatia since 1956 means that it is long-term, stable, accepted and quality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That it was relatively short and small, few times novelty and means that in Croatian practice, the administrative practice of the law that lasted most in its application. This shows that it should be treated as a specific Croatian legal heritage and as a legal capital, and that is why, it seemed to us that the very approach to its change was meant to be taken seriously, measured with the highest dose of consultation within the most professional circles. If this law is so good and quality and long-lived, there are fundamental reasons why it is necessary to change it, why it is necessary to move into its practically not a novelty but a new regulation. First of all, the reasons are out of the legal nature. It is about, uh, this law and its, uh, new law stems from a whole new position of public administration that it has in relation to citizens in modern Europe in the last 10 years, 20 years. Secondly, the position of local self-government itself, the development of local self-government, which is also not worth ignoring, is not worth underestimating, and in administrative, administrative and administrative procedures, should also be followed by local self-government bodies as rights holders in this area. It should focus on the liberalisation and privatisation of public services. And they enter this, this administrative sphere, the functioning of the administrative sphere, and that's why the law will imply but also explicitly apply to them. And normally here are the strong reasons for the development of information and communication technology that no regulation should ignore, underestimate and be their brakes. All of this then slowly influences, certainly affecting the legal reasons for the change. Europe and Croatia are developing new legal institutes that should also be introduced into administrative action as they are brought into the civil process and into the criminal process, criminal law and procedural law. Also, this approach, which is from the 1950s to the 1990s, and also later legal positiveism, should be replaced by more elastic legal regulation. Therefore, the new ZUP should be, should be, the Law on the general administrative procedure of the merger of Croatian tradition and European standards in public administration. In doing so, it was precisely because there were no firm directives and guidelines in this area of administrative procedure, but there is a guidance regarding itself, a new position of public administration, and it was also necessary to extract from it only the conduct of that administration. It's a regulation. I said something about him. We should say that after using the CARDS project to start making this regulation and international experts in the final period from February of last year until this year we have used the knowledge of our colleagues from the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek, our fellow judges of the Administrative Court and all the best that the Croatian state administration still has. That's how we got to this text you've got in front of you today. What we wanted to achieve we wanted to simplify the administrative procedure and we did so in a way that the formal, formal-law law was shorter than the current regulation that is still in force. Since the 298th article has been reduced to 164 and basically covers all the legal situations covered by the current regulation and entries and some new ones, perhaps a few words later. What seems important is the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act itself, the classical application. It will also be applied by state authorities and units of local self-government, local self-government and regional self-government and legal persons with public authority. But its application will be extended to the protection of the rights of parties in relation to public service providers, meaning where no classical administrative act is adopted, where it is also spoken of, where it is the conduct, or the conduct of public services. What's new is, in any case, the other newspaper is important is that it defines itself as an administrative act. For the first time, the definition of an administrative act is given, and this makes one distinction between acts that are not administrative, and also acts of governance in relation to the administrative matter which will be matter and matter of administrative action and administrative procedure. This also extends the scope of judicial oversight of the work of the administration and facilitates the protection of the rights of citizens, but also facilitates the functioning of the Administrative Court, i.e. in the future of administrative courts in the Republic of Croatia. The first stage procedure is accelerated in a way that the shortened procedure becomes regular. It makes 80 and now you know those who are in the administration and the administrative procedure that over 80 and 90% of things are being handled in such a procedure or should be solved. There is now a practical obligation that this seems to be a shortened, regular procedure that speeds up first-degree treatment, and a special examination procedure becomes an exception that will solve administrative matters only in complex procedures, for example property-legal. As far as legal medicines are concerned, the appeal remains a fundamental legal remedy. A legal remedy is introduced which is an objection, where the objection can be expressed in relation to the action, or not the action of the public service provider. Extraordinary legal medicines that have been very rarely used during the last 50 years are being reduced, some of them have been rarely used, but thus protecting citizens' rights and parties are not being reduced. What is also important in the second instance and it is being accelerated in one way gives explicit authority to second-degree authorities to repeal first-degree decisions and only solves the matter and that is now the scale of resolution. They solve second-degree matters, second-degree bodies will solve things in a metric and only exceptionally, really extremely leave things to the first-degree bodies again. In this way, in both areas, first-degree and second-degree decisions, we have come to speed up the process, and through the reform of the administrative procedure, and then of the administrative trial we also come to a high-quality and hopefully faster protection of the rights of citizens, or the party. The paper also introduces a legal assumption of the possibility of electronic communication between public authorities or public-legal bodies and citizens, parties. It also improves in that part and delivery. There is also a relatively and very important newspaper, known in European administrative law, which is an administrative contract, a contract between public legal authorities and parties which concludes when it is in the public interest and where it is prescribed and established by the subject matter of specific laws and legal protection, is ensured here by courts in charge of administrative disputes. Finally, such an important law and debt, the long term of its observations, the period of its application, in fact, made a commitment to one, at least one more step on which the applicant decided not to immediately enter into force, but only on 1 January 2010 in order to carry out the necessary, necessary education at all levels of the application of this important regulation. Both finally and secondly, what is also important and what will be done in 2009, and that the matter of special administrative procedures, specialist procedures which are over 60 years to be reviewed and brought into line with the decisions of the general administrative procedure, which will guarantee a greater legal certainty, one major legal order in the Republic of Croatia in the administrative procedure and the conduct of administrative bodies. The importance of this regulation is at least how we who are currently engaged in the profession and the administrative procedure seems to need as much consensus as possible, a consensus in its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19277	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The chairman of the Legislative Committee, honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 28th session held on 23 September 2008, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on General Administrative Procedure. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and makes the following comments and proposals to the text of the proposal itself. First, in principle, it is proposed to consider the proposal of this law in the second reading at the same time as the proposal for a Law on Administrative Disputes, because they make up one whole. Re-examine the definition of individual content, i.e. persons and institutes, in particular taking into account the fundamental meaning of the concept of a natural person and the concept of a citizen, and in this regard the scope of the person to whom this law can apply in relation to a particular administrative matter. In particular, it points out the necessity of a visible definition of the administrative contract institute and of the return procedure of assets acquired without a basis. Furthermore, in a legally and non-technically unacceptable way, the term regulation is used, i.e. by law, taking into account that each law is a regulation and that any regulation is not a law and should be kept in mind whether the substance to which the provision applies is regulated by any regulation or whether it is a matter that can be regulated only by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19279	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Justice, the chairman of the Committee, Honorable Representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19280	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 13th session held on 23 September 2008, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law on the general administrative procedure submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 17 September 2008. The Committee discussed the law in question as an interested working body. The Proposer's introductory representative pointed out that the legislative procedure first goes to the proposal for a law on general administrative procedure, and very soon the proposal for a law on administrative disputes will be addressed, since they form a single whole. The application of the General Administrative Procedure Act does not differ from European standards, but it needs to be modified, simplified and improved in view of its long-term application. The proposal sets out administrative matters and public-law bodies, reducing the number of regular and extraordinary legal medicines. The introduction of the Institute of Objections allows legal protection of citizens in cases that do not result in the adoption of a classical administrative act. A major newspaper is also the Institute of Administrative Contracts, which gives the possibility to replace the administrative act with an administrative contract in certain areas. The paper is the use of information and communication technologies that will affect the simplification of the delivery and modernisation process. An appropriate time limit has been proposed for the entry into force of the law in order to educate a wide range of public officials on major changes and the application of the new law. In the debate, committee members agree that it is an extremely important law, that the law is short, clear in a procedural sense. The special interest of the members of the Committee is related to the composition of the working group which prepared the draft law. The opinion is that the working group must have, in its composition, prominent experts in the field of administrative and management sciences, include practitioners from different fields, lawyers and other experts. The proposal for a law on general administrative procedure sets out the following comments, proposals and opinions. Article 1 of the proposal lays down entities which are obliged to act on the ZUP, i.e. certain public-legislative bodies which apply it. The term "public-legal body" is proposed to be re-examined and as an alternative to the use of public authorities. The view is that the concept of administrative matters contained in Article 2 of the proposal is broadly defined, that such a provision extends the application of the law and to things which are not, in their nature, administrative matters. It is suggested to define administrative matters clearly more specific legal sciences and experts in the field of administrative law. It is proposed that the legislator conduct a broad expert debate between the two readings of the law in order to remove ambiguity and contribute to the improvement of the law. An appropriate deadline for entry into force of the law has been supported, given the importance and the proposed newspaper. After the debate was held, it was unanimous with 8 votes to present to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusions: The draft law on the general administrative procedure is adopted. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate on the draft law will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19281	Thank you. I'm opening a debate and the clubs are up first. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19282	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will immediately say that the SDP club will support this proposal for a general administrative procedure. However, I would like to say immediately and already introducely that it is much more important, although we do not want to diminish the importance of adopting this law because it is absolutely necessary for Croatia to do so because this law finally regulates how the government of the state has to treat citizens and how a citizen can exercise his right to demand it from public authorities. But we would like to point out in particular that what is important is the political climate in which not only is being passed, but above all they are achieving in their own laws, this type of law. What does the government normally think of the individual? Does an individual treat and address him only when the elections are to deceive his voice? Or indeed at all times and at all times he has respect for that citizen, knows that there is only for the sake of that citizen and that the citizen has the right to ask the authority to explain things to him, to protect him. Let's remember that old Latin saying when she threatened some kind of danger and the death of a Roman citizen, he said quite calmly this way: "Nihil me tangeri Civis Romanus sum." I don't care, I'm a Roman citizen, which meant that this particular government would protect him. See, that's a special question. It can't happen then, you know, when someone asks the questions of the authorities, even if it was the opposition that comes on behalf of a large part of our citizens. Can't be the answer don't ask us that, we've got elections. It's just a legal assumption that the government is acting. It is only legality, but the legitimacy of the government must be proven and questioned every day. It is the quality of government, and when it is understood by authority as above all a duty and a heavy duty where everyone has the right to ask you, where everyone has the right to demean you and even when you do good things, but then in public you are well and quickly recognized. See, that's what the attorney general was talking about, as citizens' rights are being exercised, that's what the attorney general was talking about. He was a bringer, I'm talking about first reading and first reading on the basis of our Rules of Procedure I have to speak and I am obliged to speak and I will speak and you won't shut me up, in an environment that has to happen to me today and tomorrow this good law may also apply, about which fellow Members respected. That's what it says in the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you to protect me from these, because you're the one who owns here and protects me from these incursions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19283	I'm letting the debate take place, but you don't have the right to discuss it with the MPs, and only then do you seek protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19284	It was only allowed to help, I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19285	Keep going. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19286	It's good. Now, you see in this report by the attorney general, he's doing this report by his colleagues and colleagues, he's talking about how the procedure was respected and how the procedure for the citizens to exercise their authority was respected. The results are devastating. And you see, it shouldn't happen, who's the bearer of bad news to get hurt, but to take them seriously to make things better. That is why it is unacceptable for this House to give such a momentous report to the Advocate General for the first time, it is noted. Instead of seeing and adopting such a bill, which is to be corrected by the authorities respecting and recognising the rights of citizens. After more than half a century, Croatia decided to amend this Law on General Administrative Procedure. But that's why we didn't get a proposal from the Law on Administrative Disputes here. ZUP and ZUS have always been inseparable and their debate must be united. We already point to such a failure here, but here we believe that by the next reading, we will have a bill like this by the next reading, and that at least somehow if I can't do it together, at least they'll have a concessive appearance in legal life and then apply it, so that this protection will make better protection for the citizens. What about this existing one we've used for over 50 years, so more than half a century? It is rare that the law has experienced this longevity, and it was generally prescribed from the 1870 Law on the general administrative procedure of ancient Yugoslavia, which then dates back to Austria in the 1930 ’ s, and from Austria in 1870 and some years, and that law was an advanced law, protected citizens’ rights when they speak to the authorities. Of course the time has run him over. Of course, he was too complicated, but oversimplification can be a certain danger and death to the seeker to the public, while in a sense, he is giving birth to a certain uncertainty when that authority is being subdued, or has some claim to the citizen. In any case, it is good that this is particularly apostrophe of this one partnership relationship and that it does not want to be treated as a citizen as a subject, but it is not a matter of law I say, it can be and it is good that in this law too it stands out, but it is primarily a matter of the nature of the government, of political commitment which the government thinks about the position and the role of every citizen in particular. It's especially good here to see that this is the first time we have a new institution, and that's that administrative contract. It is a good institute that has been used by developed countries for over 150 years, perhaps 200 years. So it's a shame that we don't have, that we didn't have an administrative contract from before, so maybe some other dilemmas and major disputes, and what undermines the transparency of government and good governance, and that would, to a large extent, replace procedures and public procurement and concessions. So in the world, especially since Napoleon's time, France has been practicing such a contract. I hope so, and I believe that this, this new public contract institute will not only be a decoration in this law, but it will indeed be brought back to life as the most transparent way of public government relations and when it is available to public property in relation to the individual and vice versa, and we all strive for this transparency to be great and greater. The European Community is the most against us with this corruption, the slowness of the judiciary, the public administration. There is no good judicial reform without public administration reform. Here's what we see is that there's a certain amount of effort here. However, the biggest objection to employment is also said. Public procurement and immediately after public procurement of public employment in the public administration. It must be transparent, it must be calculated, in laws so determined that the candidates know among themselves which one is best and which one will pass into one vacant place. That's not the problem. So that these candidates don't depend on this power or that power, to know in advance what it is, what the rules of the game are, and who can count on it. So we have to look up to the countries that have it, that cherish it and then less, far less have problems with the administration or have no management at all. Here's an example of Austria that doesn't even know what it is about silence from the administration. Within 15 days, there are no requirements that are not resolved in Austria. But this Austria also says that it is unfair that, even in their administrations, individuals work for others in structures, and they all have the same salaries, so they carry out one pilot project to reward and stimulate so that no one in the administration in public government can stifle at the expense of another and have the same salary. That hiring with us at the public administration is one big problem. Of course, the more complex social relations the administration requires, and that's something inevitable. But when that administration is in the service of citizens, then there's no problem, then it's his service to better achieve one role. But if he knocks on the door and sees a scrawny face, then he just doesn't chase him for coming to bother me. That consciousness cannot be changed unless such a person has come by his ability to do so, who is aware that he is there and that he has his job for the sake of that citizen who speaks to him. Because when a citizen doesn't talk to him, he doesn't have a clientele, he has nothing to do. He's firing, shutting down his place. Today, unfortunately, that's not the case. Here, in the last term, we will now again... It took the government a year and a half to answer the number of new employees in certain ministries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course they're new jobs, because almost every law requires new employment. That's why we're appealing right now and we're making objections in certain laws that there's no means to enforce that law. We see here, because this is about first reading and per education so that certain means are provided and should be commended anyway. But as people are employed, what is the ethics of such a civil servant who knows that he has come beyond all criteria, who is aware that others have been better? How will he decide justly on the rights and responsibilities of the citizens? No, they won't, and then eventually they'll all be there in such a conglomeration, such common behavior, are the damage they'll suffer and even those whose will it came to. That is why it is necessary to put an end to this, which is why one France is particularly caring for, which is why the education of civil servants there is more important to them than the education of judicial officials. Because the more educated they are and the better they work, the less they have to do there. Because in every country, justice is perceived as the ultimate instance, so it's some exception where most people respect, primarily state bodies respect laws. And then really the justice intervention is smaller. But here we get an answer from the state administration, so let the court handle it. We won't pay, we won't make a commitment, so let the judiciary handle it. This damages, above all, the state damages its own reputation when it does not fulfil some obligation that needs to be done to citizens, sends a bad message when I act like this, and then it makes sense that citizens act that way, and then we need to allocate special additional funds for the efficiency of the judiciary. Therefore, with the adoption of this law, the education of our people who have decided to take over management, who have decided to pursue a career in public administration, who see their promotion there, but then there must be transparent conditions of conduct. It's not possible then that the one who works best, who works well, who does bad work, that it's bad. Let's remember a few years ago when the only person who got the review rating was never found any comment that the government no longer wanted her in its ranks. Everyone had, all the ministries had bigger or less grudges. It can't be. If that person intends to leave, responsible people should stop her and pray that she does not. Well, now we've seen what happened to Mr. Chief in the public procurement of this administration. We've all boasted. We say bureaucratically, his term of office has expired. Why the government hasn't stopped that man, we need you especially in this time of day when we have problems, you've done well. The state of Croatia needs you because you are doing great, not because you are a member of this party or that party. Or you've got some thinking that's suspicious of us. When we act this way, then I think that Croatia will progress significantly faster and such a mere mood and such one of our solutions will immediately deliver results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19287	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Law on General Administrative Procedure, although we are aware of the fact that it is the first reading and that many issues and solutions and the law itself will be opened, the adoption process will be opened and the expert debate and the public debate given that this bill contains a whole series of newspapers that we have not had in the field of administrative action so far. The unequivocal need for the adoption of this law, the General Administrative Procedure Act, stems from the fact that the law in today's form was adopted in 1956 and was adopted in the Republic of Croatia in 1991. It is indisputable that a completely new social environment requires the modernisation of the legal institutes of administrative action, especially in relation to the fact that the state administration in the Republic of Croatia is going through significant and sensitive reforms and that they are both structural and functional. On the one hand, every democratic society requires a public administration that must be a guardian of public interest, and on the other hand, service to citizens, or such an activity aimed at citizens, entrepreneurs and the wider social community. It should also come from one of the basic constitutional principles, therefore, of the principle of the three-destination of the public administration as part of the executive authority and separate it from the legislative and judicial authority. It is because of this principle and in accordance with that principle that the public administration has the original powers to include administrative decision-making and enforcement but administrative decisions. Therefore, this regulation, this law, indeed, is important in order for the entire system of public administration not only to be updated but also to adapt to the values that administrative action must safeguard in this regard. As far as the reasons for their adoption are concerned, we had the opportunity to hear them in the opening explanation, the explanation of the applicant. However, I think it should be noted that in the past ten years, perhaps something more, in the Croatian legal system, certain issues of administrative action or administrative procedure have been regulated differently in specific regulations compared to solutions under the applicable General Administrative Procedure Act. And that's why the things that need to be removed by this law happened, and they will be removed by this law. And this is one feature that in such conditions the administrative procedure was complex or increasingly complex, that it was reduced levels in this sense and legal certainty of standing in the administrative procedure, and of course that and directly and indirectly then it violates that basic principle, the principle of rule of law that we must all protect and which all these procedures are at its core, that is, when prescribed by law, of course we must have. The need for a new regulation is also based on the fact that a new system of local self-government has been established with significant processes and elements of decentralisation, which also in certain segments need to be applied by the General Administrative Procedure Act which, in that sense, needs to be modified. It should not be avoided that the perception of citizens, that the public action is not rare, that the public administration's operation is complicated and too slow and that it has elements of red tape or that it is bureaucratised and that it is precisely one of the key reasons, are the key reasons why access to the adoption of the new General Administrative Procedure Act and therefore should be supported by the proposed solutions which, however, this perception and all of these negativitys that have been seen in terms of the management of the administrative procedure should of course be removed. As for the concrete legal institutes, I think that special attention or by discussing these institutes, we discussed in particular those who really make up the paper in this law, which is one and I would stress it, means the very definition of an administrative act, under two possibilities for the conclusion of an administrative contract, and we have had opportunities to hear and in more detail in the opening explanation of the applicants and the third thing, of course, concerns the area of legal medicines. The area of legal medicines is, of course, the institution of the complaint, an objection which can be made in all situations when it comes to a specific natural person, i.e. infringement or regulation of its rights or obligations which it is not satisfied in that regard. Furthermore, the proposer points out that clear, i.e. precise definitions, and that should absolutely be supported, therefore by a clear definition of the administrative act, has made a significant step towards binding the public administration to the legal standard. What does that mean? Therefore, this would mean that a substantive, rather than formal definition of an administrative act has been accepted, so that all those decisions by public authorities dealing with the rights, obligations and legal interests of parties in certain cases could be taken under this institute. Such a solution would also increase the level of protection of parties, since there is indeed a large number of individual cases that have not been clearly defined as administrative matters, i.e. other forms of administrative behaviour. Secondly, of course it should also be pointed out that, in that sense, it is in that particular Article 2 of the proposed law, it is proposed that the administrative matter is of course every single subject in which the public legal authority has decided on the law and obligation or the legal interest of the party. It's a really wide definition. As far as the administrative contract is concerned, it is indeed a newspaper in the Croatian legal system. It opens up the possibility that in the laws of certain administrative areas in specific situations an administrative act should be replaced by a solution, i.e. we have a replacement of the administrative act, i.e. by an administrative contract concluded between the public legal authority and the party, but always under special conditions and in a manner which must necessarily be determined precisely by a special law. Newspapers in our Law on General Administrative Procedure, in our administrative legal practice at all, and not doubtless that there will be more speeches about this institute, a lot of words, a lot of debates until the final draft of the law and in any case not only the public, but also people who will apply these institutes should certainly also be further educated and introduced to this institute in order to naturally meet the proper application. And the third thing I've singled out in terms of concrete legal institutes is the Institute of Objections. Therefore, the introduction of the Institute of Objections as a legal remedy allows for the existence of a special legal remedy based on which citizens have the possibility of legal protection in all those situations which do not result in the adoption of an administrative act. I would say a classic administrative act that we are used to in terms of current legal practice in the field of administrative action. Finally, this regulation in its first reading absolutely needs to be supported, and not doubtless that it could be applied properly or in a good way, it will also need to be further trained and to meet the officials who will apply the Law on General Administrative Procedure, and, of course, I would like to stress that there will be a need to reform the system of administrative courts, i.e. administrative courts as judicial control of acts and public administration. This will also be a guarantee of the quality of the application of this law, i.e. the General Administrative Procedure Act. Accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community is absolutely in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19289	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative, Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19290	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will support the adoption of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Public administration reform is one of the main conditions for Croatia's entry into full membership in the European Union. This means, in particular, that Croatia must primarily adapt the legislation of modernisation and the whole process of public administration, in accordance with the information technology achievements, and enable the law to resolve the accumulated objects more quickly and efficiently. The objectives are to facilitate the communication of citizens with the administration, but also to communicate with each other with the public authorities. Reduce paperwork and red tape and speed up the possibility of obtaining all necessary permits for citizens, but also for legal entities, or investors who often give up Croatia as a country in which they will implement their projects because of a complicated and inefficient public administration. This amendment to the existing General Administrative Procedure Act clarifies some of the things that have so far been undefined or deficiently defined which have allowed for the delay and manipulation of administrative procedures. The decision on the rights and obligations of individuals in administrative matters is one of the most sensitive tasks of public authorities. In the case of the adoption of illegal and irregular administrative acts, the rights and legal interests of citizens and other persons as well as of public interest shall be directly offended. Therefore, the legal and proper conduct of the competent authorities in resolving administrative matters is of exceptional importance for the exercise of the rule of law and the rule of law. Half a century after the adoption of the existing General Administrative Procedure Act, the opportunities to apply it were thoroughly changed. Although it can be freely determined that the General Administrative Procedure Act was a good law in 1956 and even in 1986 when the administration was not yet technically valuablely complex as today it no longer fully correspondence with changed social and legal circumstances. Public administration's changed. She's become very complex. There's been a division of government into state, regional, local. New specific bodies have emerged and so on. Expectations and the overall legal position of citizens are not the same today as 1930 or 1956. There have been developments in new technologies that are looking for new solutions but are also offering them. In several judgments, the European Court of Human Rights ruled against Croatia because the administrative procedure was unreasonablely long, and if the proceedings persisted too long, one's rights would suffer. The acceleration should certainly be served by solutions offered by modern information and communication technology. On the other hand, specific procedural provisions sometimes take an unwarranted step away from the general rules of the administrative procedure as well as from the basic principles of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Finally, there is a problem in the management of administrative procedures that is well-being and due to the failure to comply with existing legal provisions often precisely because of the lack of education of the officers who lead these proceedings. The Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia is, of course, a witness to the fact that citizens or entrepreneurs are largely initiating disputes before the Administrative Court and ultimately receiving almost every other dispute precisely because of the guilt of the state administration that did not comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act or because of the lack of law, different interpretations of the problem were possible. In the Administrative Court there is thus an even greater number of multiannual unresolved administrative acts of ministries and other relevant state bodies. The judges cite tens of thousands of cases which, which were not even to be burdened by that court, the authorities carried out administrative proceedings in accordance with the law. This fact, of course, raises the question of the need for a stronger involvement of the Central State Administration Office in courses for civil servants whose solutions the Administrative Court is massingly repealing. Judges find it devastating that the reasoning of the decisions of the administrative authorities often states that the procedure did not establish the facts which it was intended to establish. That in many cases the parties are not invited at all, no hearings and the like, so that the missing solutions are issued that are easily refuted in the Administrative Court. It concerns the decline in the share of lawyers in the Croatian public administration, which, of course, is the most fuelled by the lack of financial motivation in such a service, but also by the growing educational preparation of the attorneys for the administrative service while other legal disciplines occupy an increasing share in the education preparation of administrative science, administrative law and public administration are marginalised disciplines. In order to follow the necessary level of knowledge, the number of subjects investigated in administrative science such as administrative procedural law, local self-government, regional development policy management, European administrative law and the like should be increased. This is how lawyers who are employed in the public administration most of the issues, situations and problems they face are completely unclear and unknown. They can't handle it. They've never heard of possible solutions and so on. The new General Administrative Procedure Act addresses some open issues from the existing law that have been the generator of many problems in administrative procedures. One of them is a question of the obligation to comply with the rules of administrative procedure and that is any legal person, regardless of the organisational form which, on the basis of public authority in some specific administrative matter, is to be resolved on the law, obligation or legal interest of a natural or legal person. However, which legal persons will have public authority depends exclusively on specific laws and other regulations adopted under the law. But how is there currently no general regulation in Croatia to regulate the jurisdiction and procedure of granting public powers and their content and manner of exercise in administrative practice at times raises the question of whether a legal person in a particular matter is obliged to act in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, some other procedural regulations or can act completely arbitrarily? It is clear that a legal person must comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act if it is prescribed by a special law or if it is prescribed to adopt administrative acts. Under the current law, the question was quite open whether all bodies were units of local and regional self-government and when bonds of conduct were made to its provisions? The reason for this doubt is that Article 1. The General Administrative Procedure Act failed to explicitly prescribe the obligation of the body of local and regional self-government to apply its provisions. This new law corrects that failure. The units of local self-government are absolutely mandatory to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act when, in a specific case, they authoritatively decide on the rights, obligations and legal interests of a particular natural or legal person or other party in a administrative matter. The resolution of this issue leads to faster exercise of the rights and legal interests of parties in administrative procedures. The open issue of administrative procedures in Croatia was certainly a question of defining administrative matters. This is one of the most important issues of the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act and also of administrative law in general. Namely, no law in Croatia today contains a definition of administrative matters. This new law corrects that failure. The currentity of this issue is evidenced by the extremely rich practice of the administrative court of the Republic of Croatia, which has highlighted several hundred rulings concerning whether or not it is in a specific case of administrative matters? Thus, in Croatia, the most common case law was to determine which things could be considered administrative matters. The quality definition of administrative matters incorporated into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia would be of great benefit to the management of administrative procedures. This would solve a number of dilemmas because the administrative body is obliged to comply with the rules of the General Administrative Procedure Act and would not be burdened by these cases but by the Court of Justice. But defining the administrative matter in some legal provision and doing so in the right way is a very difficult task. However, as difficult as this task is, it is just as necessary and important. The next often-opened issue in administrative decision-making is which procedural rules are to be dealt with in order to resolve a specific administrative matter? Whether under the rules of the General Administrative Procedure Act or under specific administrative procedural rules. In the conduct of the administrative procedure in Croatia, the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act shall apply as general procedural rules in all cases of administrative matters resolution and relation to all procedural issues unless certain issues of the procedure for a specific administrative authority are regulated differently. In those cases, the provisions of specific laws shall apply. However, only by law, and not by other legal regulations such as regulations, rules, decisions by the representative bodies of the units of local self-government, decisions of legal persons with public authority and such. It should be concluded that it is desirable to prescribe as little provision as possible on specific administrative procedures, i.e. that as little as possible depart from the general procedural rights prescribed by the general administrative procedure law. However, despite the conclusion, the procedural rules in Croatia are very numerous. They are in laws, but also in sublegal general normative acts governing certain legal, administrative areas. For example, customs duties, taxes and the like or which are governed by some procedural issues, such as submission of submissions, handling of procedures, decision-making content, complaints, exceptional legal medicines in certain administrative areas, or which regulate certain types of administrative matters, such as citizenship, movement of foreigners, building permits, etc. In addition, in Croatia's legislative practice, a number of laws can find a bar which is a procedural provision derogating from the norms of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Moreover, in some laws, even the basic principles of the General Administrative Procedure Act are waived. In addition to the issue of a number of specific administrative and procedural rules, there is also a study in which there are now more than 70 laws in Croatia that contain specific procedural provisions which deviate from the General Administrative Procedure Act. All this leads to legal uncertainty, slowing down decisions by appeals, requests for judicial protection or extra-institutional protection, a loss of trust in public administration and a general impression of the existence of the rule of law, not the rule of law. In other words, a large number of special administrative procedures create legal uncertainty. It is difficult, for example, to determine which provisions should be applied in a specific administrative matter, which is contrary to European public administration standards. Therefore, for the purpose of simplifying the management of administrative procedures, special procedural rules should be minimised and those necessary should be aligned with the General Administrative Procedure Act. The management of the administrative procedure would thus make it significantly easier for the bonds to comply with the rules of administrative procedures and also for the parties to those proceedings. Significant newspaper, we heard the introduction into the Croatian system and the legal system of the Institute of Administrative Contract. The novelty is also a commitment to the establishment of a public administration system called "All in One Place". Different laws, the profession says improved ways are governed by legal medicines for citizens compared to public administration and a more modern way of delivering administrative acts. In view of the above-mentioned negative experience with the practical implementation of the old, extremely long-term law, which results in numerous disputes at the administrative court, many suggest, at the expense of the public administration, a adjusted period of one year, that public administration officials should be educated on all changes in the general administrative procedure. We hope that the Central State Administration Office will organise and use this time available until the law is applied in practice. The importance of public administration reform and the optimisation of the general management process is the fact that the central authorities of the state administration deal with over 6 million administrative matters annually, with the most burdened Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the State Geodetic Administration and the Ministry of Health and Social Care. According to the information we have, it is worth pointing out that this variant of the draft law on general administrative procedure is the result of coordination and compliance with the profession and public administration officials and of respecting their observations and proposals, unlike unfortunately many other laws that we receive without any valid public debate and respect of the profession. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party club will also support this law, but the good legal text is not a guarantee, but only the assumption of effective exercise of citizens' rights, the adoption of a legal and correct solution as it depends on quality legal solutions, depends equally on the professional and conscientious work of officials who handle administrative matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19291	Thank you. And that would end the first part of our session. I wish you all a good run, and we will continue at 3 p.m. and the first in line is on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, Honorary Representative Ratko Gajica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19292	We're continuing the session. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19293	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This is important matter, and this law, which is proposed, is important, because it sets out the procedure for resolving the rights and obligations of citizens and, of course, protects the interest, or should I say in the same way as the rights and obligations of the state. And by the number of cases, there are numerous cases and many life situations in which people can find themselves, in which they exercise their right. Therefore, I repeat, this bill and this topic are extremely important and deserves special attention. It seems to me, I need to say that this issue of the General Administrative Procedure Act should be seen in one context in which we have three important things. First, the content of this law, therefore, is the first question of the content of the law and how it regulates the matter that falls within that jurisdiction. The other thing is, this issue of implementing the standards prescribed by the Law on Administrative Procedure means, in other words, how we see and how we evaluate the ability and quality of the administrative apparatus that will act under this law. And the third thing that falls within the context of this matter and the adoption of this law is what we have today called state administration reform. Whether it's about decentralisation, whether it's about modernisation, whether it's about some other procedures that fall under state administration reform. I'm mentioning this because I think it's important when we talk about this bill that then we have the whole context in mind, simply because without all three of these elements, without looking at all three of these elements and without the quality of the realisation or the law that we're going to end up not doing this job. And I conclude from this proposal that you wrote here that the law comes into force at the beginning of 2010, that you're actually showing this feeling that you need to prepare the law well, but at the same time, and that you need to prepare well the state administration to comply with this law. I'm going to say something about the content of this law, this is the first reading, and I'm aware that we're talking about it as material that we're going to develop and make suggestions at this session, I guess, to see what the suggestions of the professional public are in the talks that will follow and in the final line of further reflection which would be the best solution, the best solution in this law. The law that was worth so far is many years old and on the one hand it's aged, on the other hand I think it's outdated and it's time to change. Another reason that requires that innovations are being made in this content is modern administration, modern solutions and technological but also in some other organisational sense, which we have today and 20 or not how many years ago we haven't had or haven't had in any way. In this respect, I think it's a good thing that there are some solutions to this proposal quite modern, I'm not going to go into their content, simply because I think that the time ahead of us and this debate and today's suggestions will give enough material to make it a better proposal. But I do need to say here that, if I were to support the suggestions he made and which were made on the Legislative Committee, whether it was nomotechnical statements, whether it was some more concrete solutions that needed to be checked, or something else to think about. I have some doubts and personal issues and the Legislative Committee has discussed this, about what has been installed here and written and named by an administrative contract. It seems to me that what it says here is not good enough, elaborated content and that it needs to be built up in a way that makes no doubt at all when applied. This question whether the matter of an administrative contract and of an administrative agreement should be set aside in a special regulation, I don't know at this point what I'd say, maybe that wouldn't be a bad solution either. But in any case, the very fact that the administrative contract is nominated here as a possible solution is a shift further and certainly something which is a modern solution in this matter, and also in legislation relating to administrative action. There's something else I've noticed here, which seems to be a good solution. It is in the law of the proposal called an office or an office in one place. This is something that, from the point of view of the needs of citizens, from the point of view of the practicality of administrative action is something that is very good at that solution, or on that proposal, that solution needs to be continued. Of course, in order for you to have an office in one place and to have what is written here in the law rationally and efficiently and I will say so and honestly, you must also have an organization of administrations that will respond to this task. I'll say something else about this. The administration and now, therefore, manages state administrations, administrative officials, however you wish, and so far, according to the law that is now in force, have a task and have the authority of so-called. In the case of a member of the staff of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of And that means they do everything instead of the party that I can do, whether it's about getting documents, whether it's about getting some other data. This is not used enough and we are going to meet the modern Law on Administrative Procedure and Modern Administrative Treatment even more to do to fix the organization, to train people to kind of lift the spirit of this proposal and get a different practice, to get a better practice, to get a more effective practice. Now, another thing I need to say here is this question of the quality of the state administration right now. I have no tendency to give some high marks, but from the many experiences that we have ourselves, from a number of documents that were on the agenda of both this home and the numerous reports that the state bodies have submitted to this home. I'm going to mention the attorney general, but not just him. It is indicated that the quality of the state administration in the Republic of Croatia, with numerous, honorable, quality exceptions, does not satisfy many. Now let me just set two or three things apart as a criterion. The first thing, it has to be an administrative officer, it's got to be professionally capable. The second thing, it must have a sense of the party because the administrative process and its principle determines that it goes to meet strangers, whether it is ignorant, whether it is impossible to obtain such or such evidence. It must be met to help the party because I repeat the basic principle of administrative procedure, but not only the administrative procedure. And the third thing that is important, an administrative officer on the basis of his profession and on the basis of hypersensitivity to the party must primarily care or worry only about this issue of law enforcement, but allowing an individual to exercise his right to which the provision of the law allows him even when he is sometimes clumsy in his search. There are a number of situations where you have an attitude to file a written request about what you need, about what you're looking for. It is forgotten that the request can also be submitted orally to the minutes and that it significantly facilitates the problem of the party and actually sets up another relationship and solves more effectively all these issues that are prescribed or prescribed by the Administrative Procedure Act. Now what if one were to raise some questions that in the work of the administration are now a problem. I'll name two or three. First, it's about slowness. In the Law of Administrative Procedure, we have 8 days, 30 days, 60 days. They are largely disrespected and today it was said here that the Republic of Croatia had to pay out of its budget, for example, the penalty for such impunity. It's something that doesn't suffer modern administration and it's something that doesn't recognize any law or modern or old-fashioned. The second thing that in the work of the administration is now a problem, this is a matter of red tape. The simplest thing is, if I consider myself a public servant to be a god and a beating, if I don't think of myself as a man who's here to provide a favor to the one who's looking for something, then I'm closing myself in on something that I'm actually sending a message and red tape that people are now afraid of. And third thing, I can't talk about how much there is, but there's doubtless the most difficult form, it's a matter of corruption of the administrative apparatus. It's all on the agenda, I wouldn't do it any further. Or it should be on the agenda, I won't explain it any further. But in this time of entry into force of this law, the administration must be able to eliminate all the negative troubles we now have. And then we'll come to a modern regulation and its effective implementation. Only then will this bill, or even better, come here on the agenda as a final proposal, make sense and respond to what the administrative process needs at this time and to the settlement under the administrative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19294	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19295	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the state administration, colleagues and colleagues. All of what we have heard from the introductions and through the presentation of clubs would actually be signed almost bianco, because it was spoken in shades of a complex that is really important to every person who lives in an orderly society for the exercise of civil and human rights and for the functioning of the rule of law. So I think I can shorten my exposure to the finding that I am glad that here at first reading are given such useful suggestions that I can assess not as a lawyer, but as a citizen, but at the same time as the head of one body that is also the administration, which is the city administration and which I have met and I am meeting with that two position. On the one hand, all rightly and honestly appear to the administration, which is not right and on the other hand, that all administration is incorrect and unfair, which is also not right. And that's why I just want to underline something. I think my colleague Tomljenović said the need to adapt the issue of the Administrative Court to new times, i.e. that the Administrative Court, as explained to me by my colleagues who are lawyers and judges on the scale of things, not only on the form, on the procedure, on the errors in steps, but also on the circumstances of the debate on the scale of things, so that we would not be brought into a situation that any Strasbourg or anyone else does not reject the possibility of solving things that we could have dealt with ourselves, and we did not. This is when I said that everyone is decent and honest with the public administration and that they expect the administration to treat them based on the following that in this country they are, and it's not our discovery. We have opportunities in films to watch American practice, that citizens no longer want to take administrative solutions, that and mail, Croatia's mail in terms of handing out written solutions and submission has succumbed to the line of irrevocableness. The citizen refuses to receive, the postman writes that it could not be delivered because the parties do not and often later turns out that the administration is slow, inefficient, but in fact there is no way to deliver certain solutions to certain acts which, in certain circumstances, I do not need to speak to the lawyers. But the mayors also well know that certain situations, investment procedures, municipal activities can significantly slow down and extend the process for something in which tens, hundreds or thousands of citizens are interested, and that individuals, through the obstruction of such a species, are making it impossible to do so. So I think that we should see, analyse with those who have more experience in preparing for the second reading find the most vulnerable solutions that would prevent us from having such a situation, and I repeat, and see in further steps of modernization the issue of the Administrative Court that it really takes all the jurisdiction and solves, means not only procedural or similar mistakes, but also to engage in the measure of things. And another accent. That's what I was told. This is what my colleague, Gaiaca, was talking about. Namely, it should be recalled in 1993 when we actually performed a major redistribution of administrative staff. And I think that's where you see these consequences by following through practice. Those of us who were fortunate to have received experience, administrative and civil servants in this division can be seen through acts, through letters, through archives and all other documentation. Those who, unfortunately, are mostly small and undeveloped municipalities that did not otherwise have the capacity have inherited something they have received and indeed there are examples that are not respected, that jobs are not carried out in accordance with the existing law. I therefore particularly welcome that the law enters into force 1.1.2010. I especially call on the Association of Cities and the Association of Municipalities and the Association of County to engage all of us together in education, education, education, education, education of people. Because I don't think many times it's about corruption or badness, but simply the most primitive ignorance of individuals who have been put into a situation to take certain measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19296	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19297	Dear Vice President, Deputy Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law on a general administrative procedure which, among other things, harmonizes our legislation with the legislation of the European Union, and the adoption of it is also envisaged by the legislative harmonisation plan with the acquis of the European Union for the year 2008 which this Parliament adopted. This law is also supported by the European Union CARDS programme in 2003 to support public administration and state services reforms, and it has been designated as one of the most important areas for Croatia's accession to the European Union, with the reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption of public administration reform. The General Administrative Procedure Act is undoubtedly the most important law under which state bodies, units of local, regional self-government and legal persons with public authority act and resolve in administrative matters. The law defines them as public-legal bodies. In the context of its work, therefore, and as such it has an extremely large social, political, but also economic significance. The proper and legal conduct of public-legislative bodies, i.e. public authorities in resolving administrative matters, is extremely important for the exercise of the rule of law and the rule of law, and a well-organised administrative procedure guarantees the adoption of proper and legal administrative acts. Today, the current General Administrative Procedure Act was adopted as said in '56. year, and in the Croatian legal order was taken over in 1991. As of today, the law has not changed, except because of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which abolished the two provisions of Article 209. Compared to that time, a completely new political, legal and economic system, a new social environment today aimed at adapting to the acquis and standards of the European Union condition the adoption of a new, more systematic, more modern, but also a simpler Law on General Administrative Procedure, which should certainly be correspondence with the Croatian legal tradition. But as I said in European Union legislation. In connection with the adoption of this law, it is important to point out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has, in its strategy of reforming the state administration for the period 2008 to 2011 which was adopted in March this year, set out the direction in which this reform will be implemented, and that is, I will quote: "The orientation of public administration towards citizens, entrepreneurs and society as a whole". The finding that public administration exists because of citizens and not citizens because of the administration, the opinion of the public administration reform leader was also expressed in the government programme for the 2008-2011 term. Since this law is in front of us in the first reading, and it will be, I am convinced of many more opportunities and discussions about it, I will only point to some solutions that I hold important for the protection of the legal interests of citizens and other parties in the process, and those that determine public administration as a public service of citizens. This is exactly what I consider an important step forward, so management as a public service of citizens in reforming the entire system of state administration where a citizen is placed in a certain way in an equal position with the public administration, where the administration ceases to be... authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that sense, the most significant new institute introduced by this law is certainly an administrative contract for me. It is the administrative contract that highlights the new role of citizens as well as economic operators in relation to public administration. It replaces an administrative act, i.e. a solution, and would be concluded between a public-law body and a party under special conditions and in a way established by a special law. It will give greater level, legal certainty to citizens, and will contribute to removing certain bureaucratic obstacles. A significant newspaper of this law within the framework of providing and administrative assistance is the establishment of a unique place to perform work in the administrative procedure, the office all in one place, known as the stop shop. Through this institute, legal assumptions are created for actions that will allow several public-legal bodies to decide on administrative matters, citizens through communication with only one body to come to a specific solution. The newspaper of this law, which I also hold important, and significant progress, is the creation of legal opportunities to use the modern achievements of information and communication technology in administrative action. A particular emphasis in the law is placed on situations where a particular entity outside the public-government system is carrying out the public service activity and the need for their control by public authorities, which I also find very important. I will also mention the provisions relating to legal medicines where reduction and exceptional legal medicines occur but at the same time the expansion of the number of administrative activities covered by these legal medicines. So here are some of the reasons why I will support this proposal for a general administrative procedure and its reference to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19298	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19299	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The very fact that the law now in force in 1956 shows longevity and quality at that time of law. However, at the same time as passing this law and in the legal theory, and the other day I had the opportunity to hear historically that in the law school under that law, the cathedrals were divided in a way that two were created, so there was science in the administration and administrative law as different subjects, it just shows the meaning of this matter that this time is regulated in this second section of the administrative procedure. The fact of the importance of this administrative procedure in everyday work and the administration itself and in achieving citizens' rights should be put in the context of today's situation which we can say that, both because of age and because of the many changes that were in the meantime, it requires modernisation. Then, it is certain that the role of citizens in society and the position of citizens in society has changed significantly compared to the time when the law was passed and the situation is approximately equated, i.e. increasing, and this requires further intervention in the administrative process itself. The public administration is now undergoing transformation in all areas and on decentralisation and on fiscal decentralisation and on the new establishment of local self-government, regional self-government and ultimately electronics itself, i.e. the EU administration. In the past, the specific regulations generally did not require the application of a special administrative procedure in almost 60 cases, which further complicates the behaviour of both the administration and the citizens who, in practice for each of these procedures, should be aware of the procedural provisions and how they would behave. The liberalisation and privatisation of public services is a particular area that I think is of all the areas that are most sensitive. Since the introduction and provision of a private sector to the role of public-booking services, let alone the services provided in the field of energy services to all other services carried out through private services with public authority, it must, of course, clarify and clarify the roles of each of these entities in those procedures in which citizens come into contact with these public services. In particular, as regards the new roles of various regulators that we have introduced in the area of economic monopolies and supervision of various agencies carried out in areas where the market cannot, should not and should not regulate relations between citizens and service providers. In the future, this law should make the administration look like a guardian of public interests but also as a service not only to citizens but also to entrepreneurs. The government's trio would fall under the executive power, and executive functions should in particular prevail from those normative ones in which the administration sometimes appears and is located. And the administrative contract already mentioned several times is a special area for which we could say that it really brings to an equal position those who appear on the other side of the state, can ultimately even discuss certain things, conclude and freely enter into these legal relations. The Administrative Treaty will solve and will address many shortcomings in today's practice in the future. If we just look at this area of public procurement and concessions, then we can say that, for example, In the event of a concession, the fundamental question has always been and will be how to separate the administrative part of the act in which it is decided to entrust a concession, most often it is a solution to the award of a concession from the contract that follows the concession obtained, so that often the content of the concession falls back from what was promoted as a job offered at the beginning of the tender. And because of this different approach and the different changes that could have occurred later in the contract, all the negative consequences that were often mentioned these days could have occurred. As a result, the administrative contract as an act to enter into a tender which would at the same time be said to give this part of the decision of the administrative act and this right and obligations of the contractual relationship to all under the same conditions and, if anything were to be changed, the same procedure as provided for in the conclusion of the administrative act would pass. Of course, this text also has a number of other provisions that improve existing practice, the objection as a legal remedy has already been mentioned. In any event, it also simplifies several areas by introducing the possibility that a citizen in a government's trio, or in a triangle between public administrations and those performing public services, can directly address public authorities in a way that requires them to act or protect their rights in their supervisory role. Modernization of delivery. Anyway, it's already time for delivery to improve, because in the end, we know that the slowness in the treatment of cancer is, in fact, one of the strongest cancer-earth deliveries. And new solutions offered and electronic delivery could speed up the procedure and could speed up the exercise of rights. In these provisions, which also contain the right of the public authority to exempt the payment of the fee of persons who are threatened with self or family restraint. In case they pay the fee, they make this situation worse. And just getting into effect for a little over a year, basically requires an important education of all the people involved and I believe that it will significantly improve this administration in our society. And, of course, that and this, and these amendments that were mentioned, especially from the Committee on Legislative Affairs, which discussed no amendments, but the remarks would be the ones that we support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19300	Thank you. Final review, Zoran Piculjan, Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19301	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. I really thank you, not from the courtiasy, but honestly and professionally for the excellent remarks of all the clubs of the representatives and committees who discussed it. I was trying to say at the beginning, a very important law that basically shows and points to the blood flow of action and is actually the blood flow of the functioning of the public administration in the broadest sense. It's very important and it seems to me that it's MPs and we recognize it, and that's why we're really happy as constructionists, that there's an agreement between the clubs around and a confirmation that this law, at least this initial material, is good to vote in the first, without any major opposition. Also, between the two readings I will say all of these remarks in five minutes that we think should be installed, that it is worth discussing and that it is necessary to give them once more professionally under the glass of the professional public in order to ultimately make this text the best possible, this law that is substitute and replaces the practical regulation that has been applied in these areas of Croatia for 60 years, with dignity, quality, professional, modern, Croatian and European replacements. What we will certainly consider is the comments of our committees and your other remarks, one of which I think is a matter of terminology. This law will not be able to resolve any shortcomings in the legal terminology that the Republic of Croatia has in its regulations, but we will consider and think that it is worth considering the public legal body and body of the public authority to get that part of an even greater professional consensus and we are here in a dilemma until the last minute. What is also an important and valuable observation, I have pointed out that winning this law is one definition of administrative matters. On the Committee on the Constitution, another one has been pointed out on the Committee on Legislatives, however that such a solid definition is possible to correct. And we think that we already have a solution in which we're going to channel this broad definition of administrative matter in a way that makes a distinction between administrative matters, the act of governance, everything that is a administrative matter, which is an administrative process, and which is not part of any other procedure. It seems to me to be one of the strongest remarks, but that remark seems relatively easy to remove. What has also been pointed out and perhaps I haven't pointed out enough, but all the club representatives have repeated, and this is a relationship to special, special regulations. Transient norms sometimes skip, this time MPs didn't skip them. The transitional norms point to the government's obligation that everything that is special to the regulations, not only by the laws but also by the regulations of the lower legal force, was procedurally regulated in a series of material laws, to clarify, to throw out, and thus the general administrative procedure indeed becomes a general administrative procedure, not just one of a series of administrative procedures, and to protect the rights of citizens, legal certainty and efficiency in the course of action. What is also imagined as a newspaper, but Gajica's representative also noticed one of our doubts, and that is, the administrative contract is a modern institute, is one of the institutes that we are going to install, which will substitute in part the adoption of an administrative act and be, but we still need to build it up, and we will also specify that it is a real contract of administrative law. We were very motivated by the debate, which is also an expert in that section of expertise relating to the public-private partnership. So in that part, we'll offer better solutions. In what I think is about delivery is sufficiently said,... The remaining to improve this electronic, electronic delivery and, in practice, to make the process more efficient, even better. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All in one place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's a very modern, modern solution, only we think and professionally and think about it... offices all on one, this law, this matter should be arranged in another law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Same administrative contracts, same administrative treatment. We said in the end, we're not going to slave these theoretical discussions, we're going to regulate it, but we're going to do it in quality regulation with this law, and we're going to build this solution that seems very modern. What was pointed out and what seemed equally important to us is the relationship between the ZUP and the ZUS, the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on Administrative Disputes. Here in the process is a modernization of the reform of the administrative trial, this law is the assumption that for the adoption of the Law on Administrative Disputes is not quite the case. We will therefore be so great, in addition to education such a great passage of time in the non-application of this law is precisely that the completion of modernization and administrative trial, I underline this trial, this is about trial, this is about procedure, we hope that the Ministry of Justice will follow this one, that in relatively fast time, will bring this, or propose that other law which will then resolve the administrative trial, as an administrative court, as a court... Judications, remove those objections from the European Union, but above all, the objections of our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What someone also mentioned, did we consult here to a sufficient extent the profession in this country? We've been consulting the profession. If we hadn't consulted the profession, there would be no consensus in this House on the quality or initial quality of this law. I said which colleagues, all who had good will and enough knowledge were consulted to the widest possible extent, that will be done later. The only one we will include in the final and Law Schools in Split, the only one who, unfortunately at this time, was not involved for objective reasons. What they will point out, and this debate suggests, the debate on the wider environment of administrative action is the issue of the quality of public administration in the Republic of Croatia and unfortunately the poverty of the entire areas of administrative law is indicated area of experts leaving and experts who unfortunately cannot at one time... Education will be implemented and implemented systematically over the next year and next years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've also introduced a license, which may not have been noticed for the administrative procedure, for the conduct of the administrative procedure, it will lift up, we intend to raise the quality of the law itself. So, the point is not only to correct the administrative process but through this law somewhere to point out that it is only one process in reform, one reform process in raising the quality of the Croatian state administration and public administration, local self-government in a way that without other more powerful procedures and this proposal that you have assessed can go to another reading and that it will not be enough unless it is strongly affected by the depolitisation and professionalisation of the Croatian public administration in its full, full segment. I thank you one more time, and we'll be out in the next two, three months with the final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19302	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19303	Thirdly, the Final Proposal of the Law on General Administrative Procedure is first reading, P.Z.E. No. 168. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the following conclusions. Firstly, the proposal for a law on general administrative procedure is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals, opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that, unanimously with 103 votes, these conclusions are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19304	We move to the following point: - Proposal for a law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, first reading, P.Z. No. 171; The legislator is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Stjepan Mikolčić will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19305	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The legal basis for establishing a agricultural chamber is the Agriculture Act, which is the framework for regulating and implementing agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in 2001. Since then, several versions of the proposal for a law on Croatia's agricultural chamber have been prepared, mostly within professional circles. A programme of this government covering the period 2008 to 2011 has been set out to adopt the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber in this year. In the process of joining the Republic of Croatia, the issue of establishing a Croatian agricultural chamber as an institution that would represent the professional interests of agricultural producers and which, as a relevant partner, would help to create and implement agricultural policy measures has become of paramount importance. Following the formation of the current Government, the Minister responsible for Agriculture appointed a committee to draft the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, which was to be given the basic provisions for the organisation and way of operation and operation of the Chamber. In the draft law, experience was used in the way of the work and organisation of the agricultural chamber, the Member States of the European Union. Certain consultations were also held with chamber representatives in Austria, Slovenia, Bavaria, Poland, France and the Netherlands, as well as representatives of agricultural associations in the Republic of Croatia. The aim of the establishment of a agricultural chamber is to create institutional support necessary to raise the competitiveness of agricultural producers and their agricultural products on the demanding European market, and to develop production that would provide producers with stable income sufficient to ensure an adequate standard of living. The Chamber should include and include the main holders of agricultural production in one institution representing their professional interests and helping as a relevant partner to create measures of agricultural policy and development programmes and their effective implementation. This law should deal with the following issues: chamber status, chamber assignments, chamber membership, body membership and the work of the chamber itself, chamber financing, chamber assembly elections and, of course, the transitional and final provisions of this law. The membership in the chamber is intended to be voluntary, and the members of the chamber may be registered in agricultural holdings as natural persons, craftsmen and legal persons, as well as legal and natural persons carrying out the activities of agriculture, i.e. educational and scientific institutions in the area of agriculture which wish to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the chamber itself. In order to represent the interests of various interest groups of members of the chamber proportionately, they are divided into two constituencies. The first election group would consist of agricultural holdings which are listed as natural persons or craftsmen in the register of agricultural holdings. The second election group would consist of holdings registered as legal entities in the register and other legal, natural persons carrying out the activities of agriculture, i.e. educational and scientific institutions in the area of agriculture which wish to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the chamber. The law defines the authorities of the chamber, their jurisdiction and structure, which are the Assembly, the Management Board, the Supervisory Board, the President and the President of the Chamber, the Central Office of the Chamber, and the County Office of the Chamber. In addition, in order to address some of the issues raised in the chamber’s work, the Management Board has the possibility to appoint permanent and occasional working bodies of the chamber. The chamber is organized with one central office in Zagreb and county offices in each county. At the head of the Central Office is the Director, and the work of individual services would be managed by the directors appointed by the Board's management board on a proposal from the Director. They are responsible for their work to the director of the central office of the chamber, and at the head of the office of the chamber in the county and office of the chamber in the City of Zagreb are the heads of offices responsible for their work to the director of the central office of the chamber. The important bodies of the chamber governed by the law are further court of honor and permanent arbitration. The role of the Court of Honor is to worry about the development, reputation and strengthening of good business practices of chamber members while arbitration resolves disputes arising between mutual business relations between members of the chamber and other legal and natural persons and disputes related to membership and disputes on exclusion from the membership of the chamber. It is foreseen that the Government of the Republic of Croatia appoints a commission to prepare the first elections for the Chamber Assembly, which will establish electoral rules and implement the first elections. The first session of the chamber assembly would also be called by the minister responsible for agriculture, i.e. the agriculture minister. The deadline for the first elections for the chamber assembly is no later than six months from the date of entry into force of this law. The chamber assembly must be established within 30 days of the first elections, and the central office of the chamber is scheduled to be established within 30 days. The resources necessary for the operation of the chamber would be derived from the membership and funds achieved by carrying out their own activities, certain exceptional incomes and other unforeseen revenues. Costs for the implementation of the first elections, costs for the establishment of the chamber assembly and costs for the operation of the chamber shall be planned in the annual financial plan of the chamber by the chamber assembly, with the prior consent of the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, I propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept this bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19306	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the presidents want to speak on behalf of the clubs? It's a farming club. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19307	Thank you, Vice President. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament considered the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber as an interested working body. The debate was attended by representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Agricultural Association and the Croatian Association of Cooperatives. It is positively assessed that the law in question will bring together family farms and legal persons from agriculture, cooperatives and companies, but the observations relating to membership are also made, since cooperatives are mandatory members of the Croatian Cooperative Union, family farms with trade status are mandatory members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and companies are obliged to be members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which will be an additional burden on these economic operators. The non-compliance of certain articles is indicated in view of the declared voluntaryity of membership. In the course of the debate, Article 36 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 should therefore be amended accordingly. The Agriculture Act defines the obligation to establish the Croatian Chamber of Commerce by special law and to provide financial resources for the start of work of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber for a number of years in the state budget, but it might be good to review the overall chamber system in the Republic of Croatia before the adoption of this law. The question of the need to establish another body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is expressed in terms of volunteer membership, and the possibility of association under the Association Act is also indicated. It has been held that agricultural activity is of paramount importance and the importance of organising entrepreneurs on the basis of activities which will then be achieved by the adoption of the Agricultural Chamber Act. After the discussion, the Committee decided to submit the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament. First, the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19308	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? No, I don't. The Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government? There isn't. Okay. We're going to a club debate. First of all, on behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19309	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The moment the agricultural strategy of the government and the ministry falls apart, as we spend on imports of agricultural and food products of over $2 billion, farmers are welcomed by any assistance and support. And we at the Croatian People's Party club support the idea of establishing a agricultural chamber, as independent institutions with the aim of protecting them and increasing their competitiveness on the market. However, by reading this Proposal for a Law on the Agricultural Chamber, it is our fundamental position that the chamber does not have its own independence and will certainly not give real support to raising the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture, and business will not have a positive and desperately needed impact on agricultural producers. Namely, this Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is a typical example of organising something by system from top to bottom, and that nobody or perhaps just some, all of them downstairs did not ask if they wanted to do it at all and if they wanted to be organised in any way. In the Central European system of chambers whose tradition we are calling for, the chambers are organised borderally, industrial, commercial, agricultural, craftsmanship and the like. However, in these border chambers, the central chambers of the border chamber are not the holder of the chamber's basic operations, but rather the tasks are carried by regional chambers. Our farmers need an agricultural chamber, which is based on a regional principle. The Croatian agricultural chamber must be based on regional agricultural chambers which are the original holder of the business, and the centre only presents the chamber towards the state and state bodies. The agricultural chamber must have the task of developing agriculture and education of farmers in the region. However, if, according to the proposal of this law, a central agricultural chamber that will establish its own regional centres, which means that the central agricultural chamber would set up its founders, then such a system is lost and serves to kidnap successful and failed politicians and employees and has many similarities with the way agricultural cooperatives were founded 50 years ago. Namely, it is known that Croatia is an import country in which the import lobby adapts to everything it needs and, as a rule, the state administration in everything is in line with their interests. The vast billions whose promised effects are not seen by agricultural producers or tracers, but it is crystal clear as a rule according to the political criteria in which barely a few profit, to say the picturesque rams of the leader, and to suffer a wide flock of naive sheep voters and sympathisers, in this case agricultural producers. And a fundamental question arises. Who is this mastodon organization that is above all existing but dysfunctional institutions? By the nature of things, suspicious peasants will not enter the chamber and pay another contribution to inefficient national bureaucracy, only if they are not forced in a voluntary manner, for example. If you're not voluntarily in the chamber, you can't exercise your right to state support. And that means that such a large system that will cost between 20, 30 million kunas per year for wages alone will have to be financed extensively by another electoral group, which is foreseen by this law, which are combinations that receive most of the state support cookies and the state budget. They will certainly enter the chamber because it will not be a problem to finance, and it will benefit far more, because it will directly and uninterruptedly affect the creation of a state budget and the spending of support from it. This means that they and their interests will manage the chamber and thus the future of Croatian agriculture. According to all available data from the Minister of Agriculture 250 of the first largest beneficiaries of agricultural aid received last year, 2.34 billion support in this way is still given the opportunity proposed by the Government in this proposal to manage through the agricultural chamber with all other agricultural producers. It would logically be that instead of obedient verticals from the top down, as proposed by this Government's proposal for a law, farmers are first encouraged to organise on their own at local levels in interest associations, and through their association with the county alliances of farmers and that the county alliances of farmers establish a national alliance which can then be the founder and agricultural chambers if they feel and determine that they need it at all. In reading this bill, one of the key issues is asked, which is whether the Chamber of Government or an NGO? If it is an NGO then it can be organised under the Law on Associations and we do not need this law, and if the Government is then it will not be independent and will not be managed by peasants and their interests and then must be financed from the budget, which means again, it is not necessary for peasants. An example is taken of Austria and Slovenia when it comes to design and experience. In doing so, I must say that the Austrian Chamber is a historical matter of the development of their agriculture, and it is known that the Slovenian copy has shown a lot of gaps and non-support by peasants and agricultural producers. In this law, it is quite unclear why local and regional authorities should be required to ask this question to the chamber, which, although imposed from the top, is imposed on the institution for opinion, is likely to pay when they adopt programmes and support the development of agriculture in their area. It's underestimating local and regional authorities at a time when we need full mouth decentralization in the state's functioning. Finally, we are witnessing that from now on established state institutions are seeking financial assistance and space for their work right from the county, towns and municipalities. And it is almost certain that space and co-financing by the county will be sought for the needs of the chamber, because the bill does not say so, but it is known from practice, and the bill also does not define how and how the financing of the chamber in regional spaces will be arranged. Obviously, no fundamental democratic procedure has been implemented in the drafting of this law and no relevant opinion has been received from those who should have an interest in establishing such an institution, if I would like to see the minutes and conclusions adopted from the presentation and debates that are allegedly organised with certain associations of peasants. Nor have they consulted lower levels of state, county, municipalities and cities that will ultimately co-finance the adventure. They are not clear sources of funding for this large organization, nor are they clearly owned by it. It is not defined whether she has and if she has coffee are her public powers. From what is read from the proposal of this law, it is only that it is not intended or necessary for farmers who produce food on their holdings, and neither are they looking for it in this form. It should be devoted to solving real problems in agriculture and facing the reality of growing dependence on food imports and abandoning domestic production. In particular, some articles of the law. If the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture is an independent, professional and business organisation established to protect the interest of agricultural producers, then membership should be mandatory, not voluntarily as proposed by this proposal in Article 10(1), because I repeat and particularly stress this bill proposal or the establishment of a branch chamber is going to the draft law, on a proposal from the Government. It is therefore logical, then, that membership should be mandatory at least in terms of membership of the Croatian People's Party, membership in chambers, the Croatian People's Party has its position, and that is definitely that the decision of one who joins an economic association whether to pay not to regulate it by law is not regulated by law. In Article 4(2), the Chamber also performs other tasks under the authority or assignments prescribed by law and by the Statute of the Chamber. What other tasks are authorized? Under whose authority the chamber performs those other tasks and, if these tasks are laid down by this law, it is necessary and clear to write so. Article 5 of the Chamber may issue certificates, credentials and other documents on the facts on which it keeps records. So it may or may not have to have public authority but it still needs to be made more clear by law and confirmed by this law. Article 6(3) why does the Statute of the Chamber have to be delivered, with the prior consent of the Ministry of Agriculture? The agricultural chamber means it is not independent and, besides, if a voluntary membership is proposed, it is not clear why the statute would be adopted with the previous consent of the Ministry of Agriculture. Article 7 is asked because it has a chamber, i.e. the association with questionable public powers shall be placed above the authority of the state administration, the bodies of the units of local and regional self-government since they are obliged to notify the chamber of the proposed measures which intend to take and refer to agriculture and to request an opinion from the chamber on what is going on if the unit of local or regional self-government does not do so, and or if the minister does not. Article 9 states that the supervisory implementation of the chamber and professional services programme is carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. Why the body of the ministry? The annual work programme brings the chamber assembly to, as defined in Article 14, and it seems better to monitor the implementation of that act to the body that has been brought by it or to any other body designated by the congregation. Here you asked what is, what are the powers of the supervisory board and who oversees the overall operation of the chamber and reports it to the assembly? Not to mention, at the Club of the Croatian People's Party, we support the idea of establishing a agricultural chamber but certainly not in the form that we got from the ministry, and whatever the first reading of this form is, we are not ready to support it, so I repeat and stress that we support the idea of establishing a chamber, a agricultural chamber as an independent institution, an agricultural chamber that will have a concrete impact and that will give concrete benefit to the agricultural producer and whose manufacturer needs it, the need for us, is a dry need. And in the end, I think I'm asking the president of the ministry five or six times from this pay phone when the ministry will fulfil its obligation to this Parliament, according to the 2002 Agriculture Act, which is to deliver it to so-called. The green report, which will give the picture and we agree and we all know the very good picture that it is not good, that it is a very bad picture in agricultural production and when the ministry will carry out its obligation to this Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards this Parliament, because so far since 2002 and this and that proposal and Parliament have not had the opportunity to discuss this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19310	We have two reports of correction of the quote. First of all, the distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19311	Dear Mr. Vice-President Koracevic argued that the government's agricultural strategy and policy system is falling apart, which is absolutely incorrect. Although the rebirth of Croatian villages, the survival of 100,000 family economies and they can give arguments because for capital investments, the return of money for simple investment farmers have 40%, for complex investments 50% we have fulfilled our promise to return incentives to one hectare and one throat. We've increased our support for the second group to 10 thousand kuna. Two billion kunas have been paid to date for agricultural family economies, and currently tendering for rural development is being completed at the end of 19 million kunas. So my colleague Korachević wasn't telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19312	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19313	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Petir, has also corrected the incorrect assumption that the strategy has failed, but I absolutely just want to continue in that part that the seriousness of the work of this government and the ministries is also being seen in a 33% increase in the budget for this year, with all that has been said by my colleague Petir and the operational programmes in bovine animals, in pigscaping the creation of competitive agriculture and will certainly contribute. One big job stands for sure and that's why we're here to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19314	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished colleague Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19315	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The foundation of the agricultural chamber was governed by the Agriculture Act, which was adopted here in Parliament in 2001. And it's an interesting history for the adoption of laws on the agricultural chamber. As early as 2002, a draft law on the agricultural chamber was drafted at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, which was never sent to the Croatian Parliament. In the past term, the Croatian Peasant Party Club submitted a proposal for a law on the agricultural chamber, which also has an interesting history. On January 19th, the government gave its opinion on the bill and proposed to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal by explaining it as follows. She also says that she calls for this 2002 proposal, which was made by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and the Government, quotes: "The draft law on which the comments and proposals were made to improve the very text of the draft came from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of crafts, small and medium enterprises, the Ministry of Justice, administrations and local self-government, the Ministry of Tourism, the Centre for reproduction in Croatian livestock. On 7 February, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry rejected the proposal submitted by the HSS Club to the Assembly. But then he comes without any explanation of the twist and the Government re-examines on 22 March an opinion which she explained and says that after receiving further information, the government at the meeting held on 22 March re-examined the legislative proposal, so in the same text that it had significant comments and said that the text of the bill was suitable for first reading and that law passed the first reading. The second reading never came. So, it's interesting how long it takes us, so since 2001, we are now at the end of 2008 when for the first time we are actually seriously discussing this one proposal for the establishment of a Croatian agricultural chamber actually delivered to Parliament by the Government. Which we think should be the goal of establishing such a chamber. We believe that this is the creation of institutional support to boost the competitiveness of agricultural producers and their products on the market. So, both domestic and external, which is important for Croatian opportunities because we are becoming increasingly importers of agricultural products. The second important or most important objective is to develop production that will provide a stable income for the manufacturer to provide him with a life-long existence. When, there were different proposals or two proposals that membership should be in the agricultural chamber. The debates stemmed from the fact that membership should be mandatory. We see in this proposal a voluntary membership that eventually prevailed, which can have a significant impact on the functioning of such an established agricultural chamber. It is interesting that, although membership is a voluntary person who should be members of the agricultural chamber, they must be entered in the register of agricultural producers. So there's another selection. All agricultural producers, if they want to be members of the agricultural chamber, can't be. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of crafts and cooperative alliances that make mandatory membership, so certain companies, craftsmen in agriculture and agricultural cooperatives joined in the cooperative alliance will have to be actually members of two chambers, Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. It should take into account the initiative of the Croatian Employers' Association, which proposes the abolition, i.e. significant reform of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and should take this into account when proposing the establishment of a new border chamber. Already, counterpart Koračević said the chamber's central European chamber organisation system is organised borderally. We now have one border chamber. It is the Croatian Chamber of crafts. And we have one general chamber, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in which they are associated or compulsory membership all companies have. It is therefore necessary to consider such a system of a agricultural chamber that, as a model of such a Central European chamber system, will be organised in such a way that the centre will present itself to the state and state bodies, and regional chambers should actually conduct those basic tasks for which the agricultural chamber is established. And now let me say a few words about the very text of the law, and a colleague will speak in more detail in an individual debate. Let us start only from Article 7 which says that state bodies, units of local and regional and regional self-government, public authorities are obliged to notify the chamber of the proposed measures they intend to take. It is a little strange that state and local institutions should inform of their actions and measures of a voluntary and border organisation. It is then mentioned in Article 8 that in paragraph 2, the chamber will organise branches of county chambers for the area of a particular unit of local self-government which will regulate the statute of the chamber, and it is further said that each, that the county or city, or local unit, will be able to request the organisation of a regional unit, a regional unit. So it is not clear whether it will be requested by a local or regional self-government unit or whether the chamber will regulate it in its statutes, so each county will have a regional or county agricultural chamber. Article 9 states that the supervision of the implementation of the chamber’s work programme and professional services will be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. This is also questionable because it is a voluntary border-organised institution financed from membership fees and other voluntary revenues, but will monitor it, and later on, talk about the annual plan is actually carried out by the resolution ministry. We think it's not good, that it should be said is it really a borderline voluntary institution or is it one of the state institutions. Article 10 states that membership in the chamber is voluntary and later lists who are members of the chamber. So when it is said that, explicitly we say that they are members of the chamber then there is a questionable volunteering, so there should be some way to say it either differently or indeed determine it are members. They are obliged to pay a membership contribution and then it is no longer a voluntary association. In Article 13, again, this illogicality that I was talking about in Article 8. It is said that the assembly of the county chambers, i.e. the chamber of the city of Zagreb, will have the following number of members and then list how members of the assembly are elected, and Article 8 says that the units will decide whether they want such a chamber or not. I think the wish should be those who join in the chamber, not units of local or regional self-government. That article also discusses how many members there must be for them to choose a representative. It is a little strange that at the beginning, members of the chamber who will be elected should be elected by one representative per 1,000 members in the county, or the City of Zagreb. It is likely that in some counties it is not possible to collect 1,000 members for one representative, so it is said that I may have up to 9, so we would have to have 9,000 members of the agricultural chamber in order to choose our own assembly. Article 17 also interferes with the volunteering and supervision of the state, or resolution ministry, where it is said to be, who makes up the Supervisory Board and what its competences are, and in paragraph 2, it is said that one member of the Supervisory Board will appoint a minister responsible for agriculture. This does not have a Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so the economy minister renames a member of the Supervisory Board, so it is not possible then either in the agricultural chamber. It is said again in Article 19 that the central offices of the chamber will have outposts in each county and the City of Zagreb, and again it is the opposite of Article 8 which says the local community will decide on it. Article 23 discusses the resources necessary for the work of the chamber, it is listed as membership fees, funds achieved by carrying out its own activity, exceptional revenues, say gifts and sponsorship. It should be said that in the 2008 State budget and in the 2009 and 2010 projections, we have 3 million kuna per year in the state budget. So it would be a precedent if a chamber like this was partly funded from the state budget. And finally, to say that it is necessary to establish, it is probably necessary to establish because that is what the Agriculture Act said to the agricultural chamber, but this proposal should have serious progress, and I think it should also be debated on the basis of an analysis of the functioning of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and then on the basis of such analyses, needs and interests of the members to organise a chamber system by the border system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19316	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19317	Dear colleagues, a lot of things that I agree with your remarks that you have made here, but I think that a voluntary system in the membership of any organisation, any legal entity, is not the opposite of paying membership fees in that organization. So, you're voluntarily in the SDP, but you pay membership fees, right? Yeah, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19318	On behalf of the HSS Club, I give my word to the esteemed representative Zdravko Kelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19319	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. For years, the agricultural chamber has been said that the predecessor has now said in 2002 there is a certain initiative to establish a agricultural chamber and this has been the case until today, here thank God and here today for the debate in the Assembly and the agricultural chamber. When the question arises whether or not we need the agricultural chamber, then we will surely all agree that it is necessary and that it needs Croatia. I'll just say one banal example, here at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture we have them we don't invite a representative of farmers or peasants, of course... say the president or anyone else, but simply because we in Croatia today have over 170 thousand family economies and tens or hundreds of different associations working on the principle of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must say this both openly and completely clearly, various associations are established when they need it and in their interest. When they satisfy their interest, they die a little bit or raise their voice again or reduce it a little bit. It's a picture of our village today, it's a painting in our agriculture. Is that good, we'll all agree that it's not good, that something has to change in that part because this way our agriculture can't go forward, we can't seriously talk about agricultural production. If scattered associations, scattered or deformed peasants will be a weak partner for negotiations with those they have to talk to. That way only fits certain lobbys, I won't tell the butchers and those who use the space that showed up where the peasants aren't organized. Therefore, it is necessary for the agricultural chamber to be under one umbrella to be found by all those who have an interest in finding themselves under it. When a chamber is set up, it is clearly said here that this is the creation of institutional support needed to boost the competitiveness of agricultural producers and their products on the European market. Great. It's a goal that we all pursue together, and that's what we all want together. But immediately afterwards, it is said that the consequences of the legislation will arise, or the purpose of the chamber, of including the main farmers in the Republic of Croatia in one institution. It's the horror of this story. In an institution that will be able to protect the interests of all those who can be found in all of this, and then, beyond that, says who would represent their professional interests and help to create as a relevant partner. Look out, this is where you say partner. I will immediately mention article 7 which was spoken of here and the predecessors spoke of it and I experience it. I may be wrong, but I want to believe that he's heading towards a local community with the ministry wanting to have a partner, and the chamber is a partner, and that's how I read Article 7. He may be able to change a little bit. I fully agree in that part to try to find the best quality and best solution, but I am saying that I am fully experiencing it in this way and I think it would be best if the chamber was an institution that is a partner to the local community, a partner to the ministry because it is certainly good that in every particular unit, and especially today when the Agricultural Land Act is here, another reading goes to us and we know what problems in agriculture are especially when talking about the country and surely it is necessary that every municipality, every city has a partner with which it will be able to communicate with quality. If they're partners, I'm going back to the beginning, a few people who get together for some of their own interests, then it's not good. Then it's not good because we're not gonna do the job we want to do. So I want to think about it in this direction, and I believe that this is going in that direction, and that is how it tries to solve this article 7 as well. It is said further that the law provides for voluntary membership in the chamber. Voluntary membership means that those who want to go inside, those who think they won't have their own interest not to come in. It's also about our man's mentality, how he's going to think, whether that chamber can contribute to him or not. I want to believe that a large number of our family economies, I speak of family economies, I think of others, but primarily of them, because they must primarily protect their interests that they will enter the chamber and that out of these 177,000 I think, the family economies, the vast majority of them are found in the chamber. It wouldn't be good if we talked about tomorrow if there were 1-2% in the chamber. I'm supposed to be talking one, two, five percent. I'm sure there'd better be as many as possible. In this way, the majority participate in the creation of the chamber policy itself, of course, in policymaking, both the ministry and the state. So I believe there's still going to be talk until the second reading about this part, let's see what that means. When we talk about voluntary membership, then, of course, this section also discusses the financing of the chamber itself. That should also lead to a good debate to see how it will be financed. It says here that from more sources than membership funds... the owner of activities, direct income, gifts, sponsors etc. [[You don't understand.]] I'm now saying this part depends on how many chambers the members will have. If there's 5 grand then there's XY money, if there's 50 grand, there's going to be XY money that goes from membership fees and it's good to have as many as possible because it's certainly what's said that the costs of the chamber won't be small, they will be. That's quite clear. But the costs will be negligible if the chamber has the purpose we want it to have, to be in the interest of those we're, like, chambers and real ones. It would not be good for the minority to ultimately manage the majority or to run the politics of those who are much more. I certainly don't accept it or accept it or accept it, and I don't want to believe it's going to happen. Because it is later said that the interests of various interest groups of chamber members would be proportionally represented by members divided into two electoral groups. The first election group, I will say family or physical, family or natural person, the second group legally and part of natural persons. And then later when we move on to talk about how in each county and the City of Zagreb the members of the first election group to be elected to every thousand members per one representative or every 100, watch out for every 100 members per representative. Then it is said that the county or City of Zagreb, which has up to a thousand chamber members, have nine members of the congregation. Which means 7 members from the first election group and 2 members from the second election group. It's already built a fuse in one way that those most concerned by this chamber have room to defend the interests of themselves. It would be bad if those 1 or 2% who receive the support so much that the other 100 thousand are nowhere near receiving, run the politics of small peasants. It would be a disaster then, but of course there is no question about it if it is said in this way here in the article. I want to believe that a large number of our family economies will be found in the chamber, that they will take over that role they need to take, to create their own policy, to create their own future because only in this way can they survive under this sun as partners tomorrow's units at the local level, of course to the ministry at the state level, and in that way they can also be a factor equal in all talks and negotiations, and not that we will again be going to talk about agriculture and of 177 family economies we do not have a representative representing them because it is difficult to call on one of the many of these associations to represent them at all. In this way, a representative of the chamber will be able to represent the interests of both these family economies and others who will be there, not just family economies, means others who will be in this part. I therefore want first of all to be the one who produces food in Croatia today, the one who fights for the dignity of living a man from his country from that food and can fight better quality and better through these institutions that we and this chamber institution are talking about here today. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party certainly supports and welcomes the procedure of the Agricultural Chamber Act and we will certainly support it as a proposal that is today in front of us in the first reading. We believe that through one real constructive and quality debate there will certainly be good and quality proposals, to try to make together another reading material that will be in the interest of those for whom we all want to find a place to say once more through this chamber, under this umbrella, and not that those who so far as have had their own interest in the majority can still and stir can still simply have the main word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19320	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, I give my word to distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19321	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a law on the agricultural chamber, one new institution which, although not in a package of European laws, is clearly another step in institutional adaptation to the European Union. Why is it important to establish a chamber and what is its role? One of the most important economic issues of the European Union if we exclude the current financial energy crisis, so one of the most important policies is exactly the common agricultural policy. Exactly 42.6% or about 52 billion euros in the European Union budget is allocated annually to agriculture. 50% of the acquis of the European Union and some 40,000 pages of different regulations, regulations and directives apply to agriculture. And what is also important to mention is that in the last 15 years, there have been four reforms of agriculture and significant shifts in the European Union's agricultural policy, which should have solved several key problems and, above all, ensure the competitiveness of agriculture and food industry within the world trade organisation, i.e. to third countries. To be a participant of that system, to be a agricultural producer, to coordinate business plans and business decisions in those forest regulations, frequent changes in business conditions, changes in the support system, production quotas and the rest is not possible without quality logistics, without quality support from institutions such as the chamber, and today we are not talking about how much more demanding production is, such as meat and milk production, or permanent plantation and vegetables, how much actual knowledge and education is needed, which should be continuously and systematically transferred to agricultural producers. That is why Croatia's agricultural chamber has a great chance of being a key operator of activities in the future to promote and protect the interest of agricultural producers as an important partner, but also a correction to the state in the management of agricultural policy. In order for the system to function, in order for agriculture as a strategic economic branch with all specificities and problems to be competitive, great importance in the European Union is given to different forms of producer organisation, but also to advisory institutions, institutions that provide logistics to producers and the state, from articulating the interests of producers to active participation in the creation of agricultural policy, decision making, laws and different regulations, to education and information. It is necessary to draw the line and make it clear that, despite the fact that agricultural associations, from the Croatian Peasants' Union to the Association of Farmers Slavonia and Baranja, have played a significant role in the overall development of Croatian agriculture and have often been a collective in decision-making in the field of agricultural policy, to the facts and I think that this should also be mentioned, the active participation of these associations and their representatives in the development of certain rules and active participation in negotiations with the European Union in the field of agriculture. The presidents of individual associations sat with us and negotiated with the European Commission and in a certain way supported us to have what we are negotiating, that our producers are behind it, but above all their involvement in the negotiation process with the European Commission has enabled our producers to inform firsthand about the process of joining the European Union, so without a political filter and to get information from their leaders about what awaits them and what agriculture can hope for by entering the European Union. I thank them for that job. I think that has contributed greatly to the successful conduct of the negotiations. The adoption of the Chamber Act will not go away, it will not be extinguished, it may be more specialized as production associations, so dairy, meat producers, wheat, wine and so on, it will continue to represent agricultural producers, but it is certain that in the coming period an increasingly significant role will be played by the agricultural chamber that will be integrated on behalf of all its members of the agricultural producers and which should unite the views of the producer and as partner to the state to fight for its interests. The HDZ Club welcomes the fact that the chamber will be independent, that its work will be managed by members of agricultural producers, and that the chamber is not centralised, but that it will have its own establishment in each county and thus be available on the ground at the service of its producers. In the whole business of setting up a agricultural chamber, the key thing to taking care of is personnel policy. The chamber should by no means be in any political or biological or professional position. Moreover, the chamber needs to be managed by the most professional personnel, in order for the chamber to complete its key tasks. It means being a partner to producers and state, and no place to take care of certain personnel. It is also not necessary to cultivate illusions that the chamber will achieve its purpose overnight. The formation of the chamber especially because membership will voluntarily be a somewhat longer process. Croatia has experience in chamber systems and we believe that with the Chamber of Commerce and crafts and this agricultural sector, in line with the needs of the economic moment, the link will be important in the management of economic and agricultural policy. Just passing the Agricultural Chamber Act isn't about yesterday. The decision on the establishment of the chamber was usually entangled in working groups in which it was very difficult to reconcile the interests and opinions of certain experts, institutions, associations of producers, advisory and livestock services, and to address the issue of mandatory and optional membership. But the solution proposed in this law is that we at the HDZ Club, we believe that it is good that membership is voluntary and that the important role in the chamber system is precisely family economies. The law certainly needs to be regulated nomotechnically. So when we say that the chamber is voluntary, that it is independent, then there is a clear need to clearly dismember the role and the ministries, especially its impact on human resources, even if it is related to the supervisory board, and also the role of the state in terms of co-financing, or the financing of the chamber. So, there should be a law in line with those guidelines, ideas for which it stands should also be nomotechnically arranged and adapted, something on the trail of what Mrs. Zgrebec was saying. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of the Agricultural Chamber Act, because above all we believe it will benefit our farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19322	Thank you very much. And two corrections to the quote. My colleague Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting my colleague Kovacevic's quote when he says the chamber will be independent. In fact, the bill states that consent to the statutes is given by the ministry. The proposal for this law states that the supervision of the implementation of the chamber and professional services programme is carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. ... And yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Whether it's nomotechnical or not, but I have a need to say. And finally, consent to the financial plan of the chamber is given by the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19324	Thank you. Second correction of the quote, distinguished colleague Boris Šprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19325	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, Mr Kovacevic is, I will try to interpret it because it was a more complex sentence, he said it was difficult to come to this legislative proposal, because it should have been, to beat the talker, so representatives of associations, various associations and so on, because they were quite difficult there. It's not about that, it's about winning itself and creating a political will for this law to finally appear before this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19326	Next comes the debate on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19327	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here I am directly from the HSS bench I used to be there, but you kicked me out, didn't you? No boom, you'd say Mr. Jarnjak, not boom. The chamber from our doctor's office to our economics is really hyperproduction. And the other day, we had a chance to talk here about the physical therapist's chamber, the midwife's chamber, and I don't know who else, all the chambers of all kinds, colors and shapes. There is simply one... association, and then these chambers form sections, as Mr. Kovacevic said for warfare, livestock, mandarin producers, horsemen, and I don't know how much more a section can be in one of the chambers. As we have a chamber in the chamber of the medical chamber in Croatia, we have a section of surgeons, a section of internalists, and a section of cardiosurgeon, and a section of plastic surgeons, so ask God how many not, each of these sections clearly has its own membership. And if you want to be a member of multiple sections and surgeons, and traumatologists and plastic surgeons, then each of these has its own membership fee. But I didn't mean to talk about membership today, but whether actually when we look at this material and when we see the role of the Ministry of Agriculture in setting up and supporting it, then somehow, and then the rights of duty and the obligations of the chamber, it would be said to be somehow a small ministry in the ministry. What should be the ministry's job somehow a little bit and a good part of it has a role to play in the future agricultural chamber. I asked here, so I sat down on Mr. Greek's HSS benches if there were any other farmers who were not listed at all in the register, so he told me there was little left, and since one hectare, one cow, one man, the principle that someone would not be offended, and that someone would not be harmed if they were to be spent and carried out that almost everyone would be enrolled. Although I think that these should be introduced here, Article 10 speaks of those who should be members of the chamber, these are individuals or persons however you like. In particular, this applies to those who are not in the register. These are usually nursing households with relatively small surfaces, relatively small livestock funds, but in any case they are very, very long in agriculture with enormous agricultural experience that can also help the agricultural chamber, and in any case these people are interested in those so-called. The state and I don't know the nationals were saying, although it seems to me that in the Russian ballet he gets a national pension at the Better Theatre, then it's a national pension. This one of 500 kuna, it's really embarrassing to say that it's a national pension, I mean this is the name itself that bounces off such a bombic name national pension, from the amount that a peasant receives after 40 years of arming in a factory that has no roof or which is a prison without a deadline actually. So when we talk about the agricultural chamber, then you have to ask someone here that they will represent interests, promote interests, make plans, co-operate with local self-government units. I'd say with municipalities, cities and county, no regional self-government. There is no such thing, again I stress, then I am actually thinking and thinking about whether there are other options and whether the ministry is doing everything but establishing a agricultural chamber to help a farmer, to help farmers and all those who are ordered in Article 10 to be members of the chamber. So I ask myself a question, was it wise to think about how to reduce food imports, how to prevent importers, or famous monopolies from importing food that, without problems, imports from meat to vegetables, cereals, fruit. We know that at the 6th month that full tractors with trailers were driven I saw on the road Osijek-Jakovo Hungarian wheat, full of tractors and wire, that's right. Well, now I'm wondering if it was the ministry's role to stop it, to have someone try to make our peasant place his product on the market. And isn't it the ministry's mission and every chamber and economical to ensure that when our peasant comes 12 months and the pigmeat, pardon 11, he doesn't know where he's going with the pigs, that then the price falls and that we go to the intervention buying pigs by the state of 7, 8 I don't know nine kunas at the top of his head as much as it is. Is it the ministry's task and possibly some kind of agricultural chamber that's just some association of citizens who's not really or maybe the extended hand of the Ministry of Agriculture, I don't know. This would even result in an extended arm of the Ministry of Agriculture or a small ministry in the ministry. Why does this bench not come to another reading of the Law on the availability of state agricultural land? One time it was read, it seems to me before summer break, two-month meal and goodbye, Dick. The warehouse law was in the first reading, we made comments, we made proposals. When's the second reading coming? It is a very important thing especially in Slavonia, and clearly to Dalmatia not to say to southern Croatia, as we are called to Eastern Croatia, that the law on warehouses, warehouses, etc. for the launch of production and trade in agricultural products is the law on warehouses, warehouses, warehouses, etc. Why doesn't anyone take care of that green diesel, for his price, for the enormously high price of fertilizer? We've come upon the establishment of both the Minister and the Ministry, the agricultural chamber. It is important for us to establish a agricultural chamber as if the agricultural chamber would solve all these problems with a magic wand. And we had not tell the chamber but associations; the Croatian Peasant Union, the Association of Slavonia and Baranja, the Association of Mandarin producers in the Neretva Valley and I don't know what, the South Fruit and so on. As far as I'm concerned, I may not be familiar with the name but I know there are. What about them? Where are they going now? Why did the Minister of Agriculture and the competent agricultural inspections not make sure that those who report 500 hectares of incentives do not surrender a reference contribution belonging to the area of 500 hectares reported. They get 800,000 kuna for incentives, and they hand in 30 acres. No one reported it. It never occurred to anyone to report it, and there are. There are such as the leader of the associations I spoke of earlier, the ringleader, not to mention members of our parties here, here in the Parliament who are, they have their own clubs. And now we're going to establish a agricultural chamber like the agricultural chamber is going to change something. And we're still setting it up in the county. It says here an exact way of funding, including in the case of a foundation, not a founding. Croatian is said to form the foundation of the agricultural chamber, the way in which this foundation is financed and how the chamber is financed from membership fees to sponsorships, donations and so on. Will the executives be called exactly, the director of the Central Office of the Chamber, the body, the president of the County Agricultural Chamber, be they professionals? They're not professionals. We don't know. It doesn't say here. Will he professionally perform his duty? From membership fees to be paid out of membership fees, sponsorship and donations? Why isn't the headquarters of that agricultural chamber in Slavonia and Baranja? In Djakov? Perhaps in Bjelovar, Slavonski Brod, Osijek where there is a Faculty of Agriculture, Agricultural Institute, developed agriculture, modern agriculture. Why Zagreb? Where are they gonna shine that on Mark's square or where the wheat, the corn and the rest? Well, for God's sakes, are we going to think once more about Europe seeking regionalisation and in the National Committee programme that we listened to clearly that this was delayed for 2014. But we'll wait and wait for it. It will be. It's not far. Six years, thank God. Then, by order of Europe, what we have been insisting on and looking for for years will have to be applied. Today is a time of modern technology, information, so I would say the English word, Croatian connection, and the English link, so the Ministry can be in Babina Greda or in Caglin. Well, that's no problem at all. In the Perkovs, that's right. [[In Perkovci.]] Besides, this structure that's written here is a typical form of one party actually. A disguised form of party to say one scale of president, secretary, court of honor and supervisory committee, typical, a copy of one, the formation of one party. Any party. And I know which one is most similar here. ... And one of my ex-boyfriends, one of my party's ex-boyfriends. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And to be serious, let's leave these unserious things behind, anyway, what about the advisory services that already exist in the county. If the agricultural chamber will take over the co-operation with local self-government and county self-government units, what about the country's already paid solicitation services for livestock, agrarian and so on? So I'm afraid he'll get mixed up in jurisdiction. That, or already, it is already seen that, that there is, that the interference of jurisdiction between all these elements of the Ministry of Agriculture, advisory services and to the agricultural chamber and will remain behind all this and the Croatian Peasant's Union as an extended arm is clear and it is called HSS, is it the Association of Slavonia and Baranja and the Association of Fishermen and Mandarins and so on, that I do not list any further is not to be offended that since I do not know the full name of all these legal entities, but here I agree that when everyone has a chamber, some and farmers have a chamber. I agree. But I ask the Proposer to work on these proposals, well-intentioned, well-intentioned proposals and well-intentioned this debate of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19328	Thank you. We have a report of an adjudication of the alleged esteemed colleague Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19329	Dear Mr. Vice-President Mr. Boro Grubisic pointed out that the Chamber of Ministers at the Ministry is not true because it is clear from the very formation of the intensities of the establishment of the agricultural chamber that the Chamber needs to gather both the profession and the interest and the peasants are asking the Ministry of Agriculture and this Government to finally establish a agricultural chamber because we are in the adjustment phase of the European Union and we need to pass 50 to 60 laws. For the adoption of these laws, it is also important to have the opinion of those who will take part in the very implementation of these laws, whose skin these laws can be said to be broken conditionally. Therefore, the attitude of peasants is that no such law can and must be passed without agricultural producers, and the chamber is exactly the place to cover them and their interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19330	Thank you. The replica was reported by a distinguished fellow representative...... Yeah, well. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Wrong plate. We move on, we move on to individual debates. First, a distinguished colleague, Dragutin Bodakoš, checked in. Before taking a word, let me just say that the time has expired in accordance with Article 207(2). Rules of Procedure for the application for individual hearings for 10 minutes. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19331	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues allow me to say several findings about this law and I believe that Croatia's agricultural chamber would certainly be one important institution of joint producers and experts in the field of agriculture. A combination of production and professions should and may be articulated in one such institution. Normally, we have data in the world that they exist as such. Because it is safe for farmers to create conditions for production that will allow them a quality standard of living, and for Croatian consumers, safe quality food with fair and stable prices. Therefore, through the agricultural policy that I should consider compatible with the common agricultural policy of Europe, we must create conditions for Croatia to be able and must produce sufficient quality food for its population, that Croatia must and can become an oasis of Europe for the production of quality food, that in Croatia food production and placement in the tourist season is an economic advantage and development, that we also create successful entrepreneurs and model producers as a whole from Croatian peasants and peasant economies. And finally, that life and work on the Croatian country and village should not be a punishment but a privilege. This production that should be like I said could only settle enough in Croatia. Unfortunately, in some basic product it is dependent on the import of live animals, meat, slaughter products, milk, vegetables, fruit. I think all that we import is unnecessary. Instead of organising a production that will be so balanced that we know in advance what and how much we will produce, we often fall into traps. One of the traps was in 2007 when we exported 400,000 tonnes of wheat, and in 2008 we imported 100,000 tonnes at twice the price. For what? The current situation when we have rich crops and high yields in the production of wheat and corn we need to know why. We heard yesterday from our esteemed representative and vice president and today the chairman of this session, Mr. Fristic, if it hadn't been for the money that Shuker gave us, there wouldn't have been a rich harvest. I think you should say first that there was no climate good years there wouldn't be such a good harvest. Because these paid-out support that are very high they weren't enough for us to increase investment in re-romitarians, because we are still in Europe in the last places in the consumption of artificial fertilisers. Also, our impact on climate conditions in production is very weak and irrigation and draining is no better than it was before, little has been done to directly affect these climate relations. If you want the data we've had in the last 15 years and wheat production shows oscillations since, say, 2003, 2.96 tons per hectare or 2007. 4,64 and one year respectively were less than 3 tonnes, 5 years less than 4 tonnes, or 9 years less than 5 tonnes. The same condition is with corn. I don't know, 2003. 3,86 tonnes per hectare, and 2005. 6.92. The corn is three years less than four tonnes, three years less than five tonnes, five years less than six tonnes, three years less than seven tonnes. However, all of this has not yet reached what we had in pre-war production where the wheat was about 5 tonnes per hectare, and corn even close to 8 tons. That is why it is not the incentive to resolve this situation. It will be resolved normally by better organisation of agricultural production, so if necessary through the agricultural chamber. However, in these examples, we see that and there is one interest both associated and interested in the development of agriculture in one such association. But there's another question. Who is all today involved in helping this farm of ours. In that future membership of this association that we are already talking about, or more, everyone is either involved somewhere or mandatory or mandatory as HGK, Chamber of crafts, Association or free will as peasant associations, producer associations, professional associations. All of these, this agriculture is already paying obligations or not obligations according to which membership is mandatory or optional. Many are now asking themselves what this association brings them except for money membership. The agricultural chamber is not mandatory in this respect, but 177,000 registered farmers are said not to have dilemmas, I have talked to some of them, whether enrollment in the agricultural chamber will also be related to the realization of support in agriculture, so there are mandatory chambers, if this is connected. The next question is if the chamber isn't required why it's being brought this way and I'm not going to talk to all of this. There's been a lot of talk about it with all these commitments. What should certainly be reconsidered, and for the purpose of discharging agriculture, are the obligations it has towards all the associations that have been established so far. I think that the Ministry of Agriculture instead of proposing new imposes on farmers, because yet this chamber is a new imposition should first determine how much all, how much all the loads so far have been involved in the price of production per hectare or the price of the production of one throat of cattle. I believe that in all these countries, where they are, these countries have been highlighted here where consultations have been carried out regarding the establishment of a agricultural chamber were previously seen and the burdens that their farms have. I think it's very important in this part that we know before we pass a law like this. And in the end, let's not create associations that are established because of those who should work there. You can see that the structure here is very well worked out. However, I do not see under this legal and physical person who carries out the activities of agriculture, i.e. educational and scientific institutions in the area of agriculture. Whether or not the advisory service will come, whether or not they will be seduced, etc. I don't see it, and they're the most important part in that part to raise that production. As long as we know this, we know the structure. However, while the material benefits of members and members are very foggy and invisible in the draft of this law. I think it's very insufficient to express how and how this agricultural chamber will ultimately help these producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19332	Thank you very much. We have one reply, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Bodakosh is a nice gentleman who's here talking about something foggy. I'd replicate what's visible from the plane. First of all, this bill hides a whole series of dangers and I find it odd that the HSS coalition partner can't see why it hasn't been possible for seven years to come up with a proposal for this law. It is a public secret that as early as 2001, the HSS as a coalition partner ultimatically requested the inclusion of this project into the programme. It lasts to this day. It wasn't realized for very clear reasons. This is HSS's expensive toy, a classic clientleist law of the Minister of Agriculture that tries to establish a structure that will be directly controlled in which around 150 people close to HSS and the Minister of Agriculture will be employed through the central and regional offices. Even in the towers, the name of the chamber president is already mentioned, but what is most alarming to hear here is the message that this will prevent the operation of peasant associations and alliances. It is a very dangerous initiative that destroys civil society's initiative to protect the interests of farmers and small farmers. Just look at this provision on the number of votes, and you'll see that 1,000 votes of agricultural holdings are worth as much as 100 votes, so on. natural persons, or those directly interested in the import of agricultural products into the Republic of Croatia. What a balance, what a protection of interest. The agricultural chamber will be designed to protect the interests of agricultural combinations and those importing meat and agricultural processing. Some things here should be called a real name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19334	The real name is called Honorable colleague Dragutin Bodakoš, who has the right and applied for reply to the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19335	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think Mr. Beus may have said what he thinks in this section. I think, however, that through the association of the agricultural chamber, if it is formed as such, with everything I have said earlier, an analysis of spending and everything else that burdens our agriculture that one major part should be devoted to professional training. We lost and broke up with many professional services that were once in combination, which were in the institutes and that was what went to the country. Today we have an advisory service that is the only one who communicates and contacts the village. That is why I believe that with one quality professional support heading towards the village, we will also raise this production, i.e. to increase production per hectare, i.e. by the throat of the animal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19336	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of a distinguished colleague, Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After this inspired replica spoken in one breath, I will also try to say something on this subject. Agricultural policy is a segment of economic policy aimed at agriculture and rural development. Agriculture, this very sensitive economic branch is the recipient of a significant part of the government's assistance to many countries in the world, and the state intervenes with different measures. In order to meet the policy objectives, income is the first objective. On the agricultural product, changes in the world market in price fluctuations and changes in industry and transport costs are more reflected in industrial faster and more significantly. It is therefore logical that, regardless of the global trend of trade liberalisation, agricultural policy will continue to have the task of protecting domestic agricultural production, as well as combining different measures to improve the entire rural area. Agricultural policy is not a static phenomenon. It is a process that is designed and adapted to economic environment requirements within the national community, but under the influences that come from the world market. It is necessary to know the trends in development and mechanisms of action of agricultural policy beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia because it is no longer possible to make agrarian political decisions, respecting only the narrow local interests. For these reasons, the main objective of the adoption of the law on Croatia's agricultural chamber and the establishment of a agricultural chamber is to create institutional support necessary to raise the competitiveness of agricultural producers and their products on the European market and to develop products that would ensure stable income for producers sufficient to ensure an adequate standard of living. The foundation of the Croatian agricultural chamber stems from the Agriculture Act, which was adopted in mid-2001. During 2002, a working draft of the agricultural chamber law was drawn up, which was not referred to in the adoption procedure. In the process of joining the Republic of Croatia, the issue of establishing a Croatian agricultural chamber as an institution that would represent the professional interests of agricultural producers and which, as a relevant partner, would help to create measures of agricultural policy and to implement them effectively, has become current again. Thus, in March 2006, the Croatian Parliament concluded that the Government of the Republic of Croatia was preparing the Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber under the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. The formation of the new Government of the Republic of Croatia on 16 April 2008 appointed the new Committee for the Construction of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber on the proposal of the Minister of Agriculture. The Commission has used the tradition of working and organising agricultural chambers in the European Union in the draft law. The presentations were also carried out and the opinion of the proposal for a new law on Croatia's agricultural chamber from large numbers of counties in the Republic of Croatia was requested. This law establishes a Croatian agricultural chamber and regulates its status, structure, tasks, membership and way of financing. The Chamber is an independent, professional and business organisation established with the aim of promoting the protection of the protection of the interest of agricultural producers, the consultation of agricultural producers, the promotion of the improvement of agricultural production and rural space. The agricultural chamber is a good model for the organisation and for our farmers who do not have a single representative at the moment and represent a split in talks with the Government. Our agricultural producers are covered in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, given the form of business organisation according to the force of the law. In the case of family holdings not included in some of the basic forms of organisation, which are the most numerous part of the representatives of agricultural producers, they do not have an institution that would take care of their interests, the needs of solving the problems arising from the activity they are dealing with. Therefore, given the activity they are engaged in, farmers do not have a single representative. By self-sustaining the Republic of Croatia and accepting the principle of free trade, agriculture plays an important role in economic policy decisions. On the one hand, domestic agriculture seeks to protect itself from significantly more developed Western European and to promote its competitiveness, on the other hand, the conditions of the international environment impose restrictions on domestic protection and adaptation of agricultural activity to market principles. This means that, regardless of whether it is prices, incentives, customs protection or measures of structural and rural development, modern policy must not be left to the case. Today good governance of agricultural policy means a clear understanding of the overall situation in both the domestic and world markets of agricultural products and the perception of the consequences of the agri-political measures. The purpose of the chamber is to include the main holders of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia in an institution that would represent their professional interests and help as a relevant partner to create measures of agricultural policy and development programmes and their effective implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19338	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. It is time to discuss the distinguished colleague Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19339	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The competitive agricultural sector is the primary objective of our agricultural policy, but it also requires a future common market in the European Union. Investments in agriculture over the past 4-5 years worth more than nine billion kunas have yielded significant results, still insufficient. A number of programmes are also available on smaller surfaces to ensure both profitability and competitiveness. A large number of new plantations and vineyards and orchards and olive trees have been raised with the incentives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. A lot of new dairy farms have been built, and all categories of cattle in meat production have been increased. The irrigation project has been launched, co-financed and co-financed the construction of processing facilities, many and large and small sirens, dairy, wineries. Stimulate, support and association means the establishment of cooperatives, associations also to make the production and processing of agricultural products as competitive as possible. By preparing the establishment of the Agricultural Land Agency, the activities of which, according to the proposal for a law that was recently read in the first reading, will focus on rounding up private agricultural land and on the transport of agricultural land will increase the processing of agricultural areas as well as on the competitiveness of domestic farmers. In addition to all these measures and a significant number of measures implemented by units of local and regional self-government in this area, results are visible. This proposal of the Agricultural Chamber Act creates the institutional support needed to further raise the competitiveness of agricultural producers and their products on both our and our European markets, and all in order to develop production that will primarily ensure stable income for producers sufficient to ensure an adequate standard of living. In addition to that goal, the establishment of a agricultural chamber the purpose of the chamber was to include the main farmers of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia in an institution that would represent their professional interests, to create measures of agricultural policy as a partner, to work on development programmes, but also to play an important advisory role. There are also certain indiscretions here and possibilities to repair until the second reading, I'll point to only a few of them. For this role of the chamber as set out in this proposal, it is necessary to provide an exceptional professional cadre as a basis for the creation, development projects, consultation and so on to represent the professional interests of all members. It is a broad area where quality, i.e. high expertise, should really be taken into account, while representing both partner and government as well as all producers. It would be good for both institutions, i.e. professional institutions, to be involved in the chamber or at least to define the relations of chambers and these professional institutions. In Article 7, too, which was here and in the debate so far, it would be good if it did not regulate but advises what to do to local and regional self-government units. There's still a series of remarks I hope until the second reading will fix. I will support this Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber in first reading, as the establishment of a chamber allows family farms and legal persons from agriculture, cooperatives, companies and organizations to be united on the basis of activities that are new and certainly good. In the case of family holdings not included in some of the business forms of organisation, which are the most numerous of the representatives of agricultural producers according to their data, they do not have an institution that would take care of their interests, needs and problem-solving activities. Experience has shown that this group has not been able to ensure status in either the Chamber of Commerce or crafts, or that their interests have not been sufficiently represented. That's one of the reasons why I'm going to support this proposal that solves this particular part. I expect that this proposal for a law developed by second reading will become a good institutional support for agricultural producers that ensures both competitiveness and income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19340	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of distinguished counterpart Denesh Soja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19341	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Just before I saw another secretary of state, but I'm sorry he just left the assembly, he's from Baranja. Let me get involved in this debate to say a few words. I've been considering the contents of this law with several of our farmers precisely those who have between 20 and 50 acres. This is what I call that middle layer under quotes, which is now existing and which are family farms. I can say that I have introduced them to the content of several articles of this proposal and I can say that it is absolutely accepted in formal normal, especially in terms of content, and in particular that the name of the agricultural chamber is somehow accepted. However, there are also certain objections and remarks in this regard. The first question was what will be done by the Chamber of Commerce, which has already been set up for agriculture. Especially with us in that area down in Osijek. Therefore, further, there is an advisory service, there are cooperative advices, a series of institutions listed here. Therefore, people think that the teaming of this agricultural chamber should, at least one good part, be resolved by transforming those people who are already doing this job in other institutions to do so in that agricultural chamber, because they see in some way saving themselves in such an institution that would unite it all together. This is for our area where large areas are very important and important. This is about volunteering, which is generally fine. However, this article on funding speaks of membership fees. I guess that's not going to be a particularly big item. And this second item of realising its own activity. I link this to Article 4 where it talks about the tasks of the chamber and this own activity, and I don't see it very much, because it will be invoiced from that own activity to collect. That's what's listed here. I'm afraid there won't be much revenue here either. And something is said about gifts, about sponsorships, etc. However, I think it will have to be resolved. It depends on how many people are really going to be there to do the job. And if that's the final time and it's necessary to form, to do and to define a clear agriculture policy, I'm going to try to explain it on one more example, Mr. Vice President, I've already informed about it, because we now have a situation on the ground so that the small ones, so to speak, that have small surfaces, gradually, but surely they've disappeared or found existence elsewhere, or they've kept a hectare, a hectare and a half so now they're a little stronger than the weekenders, and they have additional sources, of which they live. However, what the transformation process is now, just the ones I talked about from 20 to 40, 50 hectares, which are being mechanized, acquired also certain equipment and machines, they need this help, because instead of the former state goods and combinations, we now have legal persons, i.e. agricultural organisations, private-owned companies with large surfaces, with modern production. However, this modern high-investment production, with high productivity, does not solve the situation below in social terms, as it does not invest much in labour-intensity activities, but rather in modernising production. The farm has recently opened with investments of 50, 60 million, robotized, four, five allegedly, seven working maximum. However, such investments should also be accompanied by other aid activities and those people who want to find their existence in agriculture, and there is a key question about what a colleague from Slavonski Brod was talking about how to dispose of real estate, with land owned by state property. You know it by the legal rules left to the local community and there are certain problems, because finally that country is the basis for existence. This is where it all starts. Therefore, we now have to define in our policy whether we are going to stimulate the OPG, the family farms, and enable them where there are still orange surfaces to buy, to purchase, to borrow, because it is very important. It's not even the most grateful that it's an arbitration of the municipal council or the city council down in those rural areas. And I have yet to say, there is even a question of the competitiveness of these large systems, i.e. large legal entities with large surfaces, which practically pay almost symbolic amounts for the use of this state country. In particular, I've pointed out that here once, I might be a little bit boring, for 6 to 7 thousand acres of land, the budget of my municipality, where I'm chief, doesn't get a million old dinars, or kuna. Not a million kunas. Thus, from these sources, it gets, of course, the state budget, which for the state budget doesn't exactly mean God knows what, but for a single municipality budget it means a lot. And I honestly expect, if that agricultural chamber is formed, it will help solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19342	Thank you, Mr. Representative. It's time for the debate, distinguished colleague Boris Sprem. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, here's a few words about this law. So it's interesting, as my colleague Zgrebec used to say on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the history of the birth of this text, so much as through this relatively long history of 6 years, 7 can see HDZ's relationship to one political party that was in position, the relationship with her now that she's no longer in position. So efficiency in terms of the potential of the proposing has increased strongly these past few months. I personally welcome it, I just find it a fact. Because it cannot be objected only to the coalition authority from 2000 to 2003 that the law was not passed, because the law was not also proposed in the parliamentary procedure because it was not really discussed with its basic provisions and agreed, but during the HDZ authorities, this law was prepared in a way that the HSS club proposed legal text, and then HDZ promised to send the processed text into the parliamentary procedure and that the law would be passed in the previous term. It's a pity that no law was passed in the last term, and I don't know personally what he looked like, I haven't had time to study it, but this one that's been proposed right now, I'm going to say right at the beginning, really, except that he could represent what it used to be, an initiative to pass a law with a bad explanation as it is here and presented, it could be called. I'll try to explain it, of course. This good intention to enable the law to form an association such as a agricultural chamber in which to unite and in the environment, above all, the administrative environment, so government and ministry, etc. e-mailed the initiative and was connected to the creation of a agricultural policy with agricultural producers is good and is of course wanted throughout this time to reach a solution. But you can't put a legal text like this here, in a way that is constitutionally disputed, that it's contradictory, that it's insufficient, that in some way, not in some way it's imprecise, and finally that it's smudge. And that law enforcement profession in that law had no business. If you need help in formulating certain articles of this law, I am willing to help you. Furthermore, in order to confirm my thesis that this law is not well-conceived and that its basic institutes do not keep water on this matter, is what has already been said, something a little more detailed I will try to explain, it is a question of the very concepts of the law. This law states in Article 1 that this law establishes a Croatian agricultural chamber and that this is all the connection with the state which is in that law, except for one other relationship, which is that the Ministry of Agriculture is practically overseeing the work of the Croatian agricultural chamber in a way that gives consent to the basic act, it is a statute and that it was still unthinkable for me as a lawyer to read that it oversees the implementation of the programme of work, Ministry of Agriculture. So what does that have to do with anything? However, if Article 1 had been deleted if this law had established this chamber, it would have actually been an association, because the content of the other provisions says it is an association. And the association is formed under the Law on Associations in a way that membership is voluntary, funding is resolved by the Statute, relations are established through local organizations of the Statute and all important things are dealt with. Well, since the need for the Croatian Agricultural Chamber has been created for so long, it is a pity that it did not go that way to solve the problem. But something else is hiding behind all this. It's actually a hidden role of the state through the Ministry of Agriculture. This role is clearly reflected in this provision, where funding is said to be available in addition to voluntary membership, etc. membership, etc. I see here a hidden situation which this law actually wants to law on a small door, which is that it is therefore through the help of the Ministry of Agriculture by saying behind realising actually financial assistance to that association. And I don't think farmers need that kind of chamber. Agricultural producers of all these types listed here need one association voluntary, but in a way that cooperates with the state and affects it and vice versa, but in a very transparent manner as it should be written in this law. The bodies of the chamber, I haven't read anywhere, maybe I haven't read enough legal texts or read enough, that the bodies of the chamber, says the council of boards, the supervisory board, the president, could be these chambers, so please, the presidents of the chamber, so what are these bodies? And to make things worse, there's no record of what they're doing, but nowhere in the law, so it can't be a body. So the body of the chamber can be president, as an individual. The central office of the chamber, so the central office is actually how to say, a set of individuals in which the head of the central chamber is the first person, but it can't be the central office body, because it's performed as an organisational unit where professional affairs should be done. So I warn those who suggest that, in a long reading, of course, it simply leaves out such things. He can do anything if he votes. There's only the possibility of killing it in a constitutional court, which wouldn't be good. Well, that's not exactly the kind of matter that would fall under that serious thing to refute, but let's say an article that says the Ministry of Agriculture agrees with the concept of this law in the Statute of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber of Constitutional Rights certainly disputed. At least it's certainly controversial if it's not for it to be challenged in the constitutional court in the extreme case, but that the dispute is certainly disputed. Then the bodies of the county chamber. It says so, so it should be settled in the Statute, not the law. And finally, I propose that a thorough revision of the text of this legislative proposal be carried out before it appears in the second reading, and if, of course, it is the representative of the proposings after the debate that was present not only at this plenary session, but also at the working bodies, accept this fact and the need for the legal text to be thoroughly, this legislative proposal thoroughly how to say the preamble, then we can, of course, go to the fact that we can welcome the idea and that this law can be accepted. And I would just like to say to the proposer's representative, I have said this to another proposing representative, I think it was from the structure of the internal affairs, and that would be good, and I say to the chairman of the Croatian Parliament's Presidency, that the representatives of the Government when the legal text or some other act proposed by the Government is being considered by the working bodies of the Parliament so that it would be good to hear the debate on those working bodies and that the prepared already come for the speaker because the first ones speak on behalf of the Government and then, in some way, catch those remarks and expose their views so that the debate is easier for us not to repeat ourselves and to make it easier for you, at the end of the clarity of the Parliament's views in creating the second letter of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19344	Thank you very much. Followed by a further debate by distinguished counterpart Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19345	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues agree with Mr. Sprem not in this debate but in many discussions that unfortunately we do not repeat ourselves much especially when there are ten, fifteen in the debate and then we repeat ourselves but what we can do. I will also repeat that the aim of establishing a agricultural chamber is to create institutional support necessary to raise the competitiveness of agricultural producers and their products on the European market and to develop production that would provide producers with stable income sufficient to ensure an adequate standard of living. However, it should also contribute to the development of entrepreneurship with all forms of organisation and business in agriculture. This law should settle the following issues. It's all been told here many times by the statutes of the chamber, the assignments, the memberships, the bodies, and not to list everything. The purpose of the chamber is to include the main bearers of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia in an institution that would represent their professional interests. The Statute is a basic act of the chamber brought by the Chamber Assembly, with the previous consent of the Minister responsible for Agriculture. The law provides for voluntary membership in the chamber and similar institutions exist in the Member States of the European Union. The members of the chamber are natural persons holding holdings, natural persons holding agricultural holdings registered as craftsmen and registered in the register of agricultural holdings, legal persons, holdings registered as companies and cooperatives and registered register of agricultural holdings as well as legal and natural persons carrying out the activities of agricultural or educational and scientific institutions in the area of agriculture. The law also defines the bodies of the chamber, their jurisdiction and structure. The chamber is organized with a central office that will have county offices on the ground in each county. I support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19346	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. Next is a debate by a colleague of Parliament, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19347	Dear Mr. Vice-President, State Secretary, MPs and MPs I will support this bill because, as we have heard through a number of previous exhibitions, the idea of adopting the Law on the Agricultural Chamber and that agricultural producers are organised in a different way for a long time and it is an integral part of the pre-election programme of the Croatian Peasant Party, the rebirth of the Croatian village, and it has become an integral part of this government's programme. And I'd like to start by actually answering those who mentioned coalition partners. Of course, the former and current coalition partners are best than in 2002 when we prepared the Agricultural Chamber Act, which was also our programme, the Croatian Peasant Party programme, the Agricultural Chamber Act did not receive support from the coalition partners at the time. Unlike the situation we have today, he is in the government programme and we are discussing him in the Croatian Parliament. So there's this one constant difference between these and those coalition partners. But I don't want to bring a debate about the agricultural chamber into the political spheres because I don't think that's necessary. I think that because of the interest and protection of the farmers of the family economies themselves, their associations should say that we need the agricultural chamber, that it is not an invention of either HSS or Croatia, that many European countries from which we have learned how the chamber is established, why it is important and I think that those who were engaged in agriculture visited Austria and saw the Austrians organise the agricultural chamber, as the Germans or the French do. It is important to say that in Croatia we have 800 different associations of agricultural producers and when we are having talks that we need not only in the agriculture sector but also in other sectors if we really want to reach a consensus on important issues when Croatia enters the European Union then agriculture is one of the most important issues we need to be clear and fair and say that 800 different associations are difficult to call for a conversation. And in order to be correct with them, we need to give them a model for them to choose between themselves their representatives with whom the authorities, the ministry will talk, negotiate, be a partner and make joint decisions. In order for this to happen, it is necessary to conduct the elections and give them a place where they will represent their interests, and a better place than the agricultural chamber I do not see right now. The Ministry of Agriculture also intensively sends messages to the associations of agricultural producers that it wants to talk to them, that it wants to have them as an equal partner, that it wants to include them on the basis of expert bases in co-creation of agricultural policy and implementation of agricultural policy measures. After all, we also have a number of institutions and advisory services that should be the professional service of agricultural producers, and sometimes these services do not have clear and firm coordination. As a result, they are often inefficient and then users or agricultural producers are dissatisfied with their impact. The agricultural chamber can be an ideal place to unite all these services to provide real service to agricultural producers. So the agricultural chamber is where they will be representatives of agricultural producers who should be interested in representing them. The agricultural chamber is a place where partner relations between the government and peasant associations should be developed. The agricultural chamber is also a place to be the professional and advisory service of agricultural producers. What is important is to point out because we are usually stuck on the money we have brought the budget and the funding for the establishment of the agricultural chamber is provided in the framework of this agriculture budget. Farmers expect a lot from the agricultural chamber especially in negotiations with the European Union, because the interests of peasants cannot be better represented than themselves and that is true. The peasants ask for policy only the legal framework, and in one place they want to have both the profession and the interest and by harmonising our legislation with European legislation as I have already mentioned we need to pass 60 laws in the agriculture sector, serious laws directly and indirectly concerning agricultural producers. It would be completely unserious if these laws were passed without consulting them. If we know that we have 178,000 family economies enrolled in the register, then we know that it is impossible to communicate every law with 178,000 family economies or with 800 associations. But if they choose between themselves the representatives they trust, then it is quite possible to carry out it properly and efficiently. The attitude of peasants is that no such law can and must be passed without agricultural producers. I fully support that attitude. When we talk about Croatian agricultural producers, we can say that they have not had too much luck in representation in individual chambers so far. The fishermen only have a hot spot, so according to the Law of Rotation, they are obliged to be members of the Chamber of crafts. On the other hand, the largest branch union of PP Diva was able to fight for PIC workers Vrbovac, Belje, Kutjeva. But it seems to me that the peasant for everyone was and remained a cult and his interests were only protected by a few. That's where I dare say, because I think my colleague Beus is gone, he's had this late hours, because he respected HSS for this proposal. But HSS protects the interests of peasants, and we believe that the interests of peasants are organised to protect them themselves and that they can find this base in the agricultural chamber itself. That this government has fulfilled its promises over the past few months and has done a lot of talking concrete data and concrete facts. From the very adoption of the agricultural budget, which is 30% higher than it was the previous year until we raised capital investments for simple investments to 40%, for complex investments to 50%, and that in that segment there are 485 million kuna funds for operational programmes, that we have fulfilled our promise tells the fact that we have returned the incentive to one hectare of one throat and allowed 70,000 family economies to return to the incentive system, which is not insignificant. That we have fulfilled our promise is also saying that we have raised income support for another group to 10,000 kuna. That we have fulfilled our promises and that we have paid back the support, the backlogs for capital investments of 2 billion and 700,000 kunas to date. That we have fulfilled our promises and that we have provided considerable resources for rural development, because we are aware that we need to follow trends in the European Union, that we need to monitor what is happening in the common European policy, and this Parliament has brought a budget in which half a billion kuna is secured precisely for rural development projects that should be made possible and with this support that we give to farmers to really start with a programme of rebirth and reconstruction of Croatian villages and to keep people in the country because these people are farmers, farmers, guardians of our Croatian space. Those who do not understand it are being held here by certain articles that I agree always have room for dialogue and correction. I want to do it again. The Croatian village preserved language, culture, faith, costume. The Croatian village makes us special and therefore we will enter the European Union with our identity. Therefore, the Croatian village deserves a different relationship not only within the ruling coalition that has shown a serious attitude towards the Croatian village, but also those who are in opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19348	Thank you very much. And the final application for a hearing, the esteemed representative of fellow Shime Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19349	Thank you very much. Well, since I'm not an agricultural expert, and I don't belong to a party that lays on anything exclusive, so neither does agriculture. I need to say a few sentences as a representative of this House. I took this paper in my hand and I saw it like someone gave me a shower. If someone dared us from the government, some ministry would send a law like this to our benches to discuss it. Gentlemen and ladies, that's embarrassing. Now I took it, and it made me want to read it. Well, when I saw these 30 articles written for two years, it wasn't clear. That's what we could write here this morning, make a deal and adopt it. Now, now I've done a little bit of content and I've tried to analyze some things. First, one political grade. This law does not suit both the needs, the farmers, the time, and the Croatian reality. I understand this law to you and I hope that time will deny me as actually an incentive to create some 22 synergy. This means that this law will allow a number of political counterparts to be housed in some chairs at Zagreb level, here in Zagreb and at County level, I hope that time will deny me. And otherwise, if that were the case, this law would be a little more content. The whole meaning of this law, therefore, of agriculture in three articles, has been put in place. Well, you can't tell me it makes sense to set up a chamber. So when I read the goal it says there, it says that the goal is to raise the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture on the European market, products on the European market. So let the promoter explain to me how some peasant from Slavonia or this heavy from Dalmatia will come across this chamber to the European market. He can't come to Zagreb for Dolac, let alone the European market. So I have one specific question. Have you simulated and considered the possibility of what if you get into the chamber of Luro, Agrokor, Vindi, Žito and let's say my heavy and this Slavonite, Slavonic peasant. Will you explain to me whether these big farmers and merchants, thank God and these little ones have the same interest. Why don't you explain to me how, therefore, that interest will be articulated? That's not clear to me. One thing that is very important, given that you have called this a chamber, since this model is to exist, there is one in a number of European countries, but there are some modern trends in this organization. Can you tell me and do you have an opinion of the Chamber of Commerce regarding this law? I think that would be very interesting actually to see and hear. So, I'd like to open up some more questions here. How does it have to be, can it be independent if the ministry de facto decides everything? So, this is another in a series of attempts to actually not professionally, but political molds or frames of our agricultural producer, and it actually seems to me that we may not have taken advantage of one possibility. I don't know why in this country you've been avoiding talking about agricultural cooperatives for years? That's where they remember they can be members. So, in the '90s, we destroyed agricultural cooperatives as a relic of one brain while they were developing in the west, and they're developing today as a very effective form of functioning, especially farmers. Not just farmers, but farmers in particular. In Croatia there are today, I think about 620 agricultural cooperatives organised in the Croatian Association, I think that's what it's called, somewhere near 15 thousand producers. In fact, you only mention these guys by the way that they can get into that chamber. My colleagues used to say before me that a whole series of subjects that matter and that make sense of organization, by improving agricultural production remain outside this chamber. You know, what's gonna happen to all those services, everything that's already around agriculture today? If nothing happens, if they don't fit into this story, then my thesis on sinacurams is so easy to prove and in fact what happens when these different organizations of the chamber conflict and when they come into different interests? You know, I'm often not prone to politicizing where it's not there, but when I get the law on agriculture, in alleged signs, so on the subject that treats agriculture, in 30 articles, then I say Shime it's great, our agriculture is great at what our legislation is. And we have a tragedy. The common discord goes in a way that the law is better and that our reality is worse. We have a situation about agriculture that we actually have a reality better than that legislation. Now, one more question. Does this mean that we don't have enough experts in the ministry, in the agriculture portfolio, or maybe that's the reason for certain exclusivity of certain political structures, or are already so many interests related to this area, for agriculture, which is why the strategic story has already provided so many tentacles that we don't really have a chance to put this story together in the right way. So this idea, I like the chamber, but in this form, in 30 articles, I mean inadmissible. Because actually here it's only important that the bodies at the county level, at the city level, are received by members and so on and so forth and so on and so forth. And what is still very dangerous, it is not good to write that membership is voluntary because this can result in the following, that the chamber, under the auspices of the ministry, can issue various certificates, different stories in a way that simply one number of people will force it to be a member or be in an unprivileged position. Here, I'd like to ask the Proposer of these few open questions at least for me, I'm saying I'm not an expert, if he can answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19350	Thank you very much. We have one reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19351	Comrade Sima, you rightly point out that the property, that is, that agricultural cooperatives have been destroyed, as you say for the sake of it, has been justified for one reason, and killed for very ground and earthly matters, that this joint property is being robbed and seized. And now we have to go back, so because all the advanced countries had that, and that's what they grew up to be. So they watered what my colleague Dragica says. So there's a lot of stuff left. I only mention these and colleagues now on this occasion of a agricultural cooperative, but we have to use every opportunity, and in this case, an accident that happens to protect us and that doesn't happen with what we have companies, agricultural cooperatives, which is now being prepared for us, here we will soon have the Forest Act, to preserve these natural resources. You HSS's here specifically invite them to be at work as they've been in words so far. You'll have a chance to show yourself now, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19352	Replication response, dear colleague Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19353	I agree with my colleague Ingrid that it is not only about cooperatives, but also about agriculture, in general, one of the key issues of ownership. And until that's actually defined and brought to an end, I think we're going to wander a lot. You're not just based on ownership that you can exercise certain rights. You'll be able to de facto at the chamber, since it's not worked out to be a three-time member. Let's say as an individual producer, as a member of a agricultural cooperative, and let's say as a cooperative of Agrokora or something. So you simply have a series of questions, not just ownership, but some basic rights that are not mentioned at all as a possibility of problems, but I believe that whoever wrote for 2 years and 3 months this law has answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19354	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the law when the conditions are met. We're moving to agenda item five. Proposer? I was waiting for him to raise his hand. Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, you're always right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19355	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have all in your discussions or almost all expressed a high level of consent that we need an institutional framework for the organisation of our agricultural producers and a large majority of you on the left and on the right and on the left and right policy options agree that it is the Croatian agricultural chamber. We have established this law in some way a legal basis for establishing a Croatian agricultural chamber. You mentioned here that there is a Croatian medical chamber, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Veterinary Chamber, and I don't know which other chambers and now dispute the possible way here through this law as were the laws for the establishment of all these other mentioned chambers, that this is not properly understood here. In fact, more or less the exact same way were founded and all of these chambers I was talking about. However, in this law not all details should be prescribed which should be done by the chamber, in which way it should work. There are here to say so to the statutes and other acts of the chamber that will define the exact competences of such an institution. I don't want to pollemize with you. But here I would say at first there was a debate that our agriculture and our agricultural system was in ruins. So I can firmly argue here that we've been through this year in agricultural production in natural and financial indicators that they're the best years, that they're record years. It was about the production of wheat, corn. Here I have to say that we have wheat production at the level here's a state of 140 thousand acres, five gonads on average. The second most native year was when it was at country level 4.7. All productions are far away from what they were in previous periods. So there is absolutely no system for agriculture and the agricultural system and our agricultural policy led by this Croatian government in the portfolio. Here's to keeping your debates out of the question. However, I thank you for everything you have shown in your discussions, on the comments, on the suggestions, and we will take this into account in some way in the drafting of the final proposal of the Agricultural Chamber Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19356	Thank you very much. There are two applications for corrections. Dear colleague Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19357	Thank you very much. Well, I can't agree, I don't think it's 100% accurate, that the fact that she gave birth to wheat is an indication of the success of agriculture. Because if you sell that wheat out there now you have extras and you sell it for kuna, and the day after tomorrow you import that same wheat for 2 kuna, it's a successful agriculture. So it's not just about nature, it's about management, business, etc. etc. And I know you know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19358	And another application, Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19359	Well, I'd just like to correct the secretary of state. This year's six tons, you say, close to six tons is the result of good climate conditions. But it was also under three tons five years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19360	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19361	Proposal for a law on Croatian agricultural chamber, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 171. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal for a conclusion was adopted by a majority of 77 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 28 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19362	And now we're moving to agenda five. - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative in disasters for Southeast Europe, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 156 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, as referred to in Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. We received reports from the board at the session. The proposer's representative here is Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Interior Ministry. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Secretary of State Ivica Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19363	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament before you is the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of an initiative for preparedness and prevention in disasters for Southeast Europe. We believe that this first and foremost memorandum that needs to be confirmed and become part of the internal constitutional legal order, is very important for the Republic of Croatia because it will give us a legal framework for better and more effective cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with countries in the environment, neighbour countries in the fight against civilization and natural disasters and disasters. The main objective of the adoption of this law is to adequately regulate cooperation and mutual assistance issues in disasters, conditions of cooperation in disaster prevention and other forms of cooperation in this area. The Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative in disaster prevention for Southeast Europe has been set up to provide mutual assistance in disasters for the state area of one of the Contracting Parties, the conditions of cooperation on disaster prevention and cooperation in the areas of mutual information on threatening disasters, the disasters created and their consequences. So one good legal framework would be given for bilateral and multilateral co-operation by the signatories of this memorandum in the event of a need to provide mutual assistance. The funds needed to pay membership fees for participation in the institutional framework are secured in the budget, and there is the interest of the Republic of Croatia to conclude this procedure as soon as possible in order to have an adequate legal basis for the countries of the signatories to cooperate with each other in providing assistance and therefore we propose the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19364	Thank you very much on behalf of the promoter. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Legislative? Protecting the environment? Internal policy? No desire, no need. We're going to talk to the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19365	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here it is in these late hours, one topic and one item of the agenda, which is important, important in the entire system of how the functioning of the state would say so without even a bit what would say prejudice and in human activity, which is exactly protection and prevention, i.e. protection and prevention from threats that threaten major accidents and disasters. The law that lies before us today is on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding and the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative for Southeast Europe, and it is necessary to say which are made up of Albania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia is a good law, that is, a solution that will contribute to the even better quality of the implementation of these preventive activities, as well as those repressive ones that address all threats that threaten major accidents and disasters. It is about countries from the nearest environment and it is about a law which is based on a declaration of partnership from Bucharest in 2002, where the Republic of Croatia takes on significant obligations in action, provision, support, assistance, readiness and commitment to strengthen its preparedness in prevention. The scope of this memorandum, i.e. mechanisms in the field of protection and rescue, are being arranged and we can say freely that it represents one of the essential steps and in the integration of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union system, in the system of protection and rescue. It is necessary to say that the dangers of major accidents and disasters do not know the administrative boundaries, they do not know any obstacles in that part of which we can determine, but they act by law, significantly different laws and therefore not every organization can be based exclusively on administrative boundaries, closed circles, but also on the basis of the Convention, that is, the principles adopted by the international organisation of the United Nations, which, on the basis of which both this Memorandum and the entire organisation organised in that system, and these principles that the international organisation adopted in '76. The year is based on each problem being solved from the lowest level, meaning from the least level to the highest level. To transfer to today's system of organization from the level of the municipality, the city, the county, the state and with this memorandum and with these solutions and at interstate levels. A line of subsidiarity was also established. That means a level of responsibility. Each level in such a system from the municipality, city, county, state has its own level of responsibility and each level of responsibility is responsible for the implementation of all those measures and activities relating to that level. So these levels also say that the levels of the possibility of accidents begin from a small level to a major disaster, except for exceptional such as natural phenomena, there is an example of an earthquake, which is one event that I say in the beginning is a disaster not only of the state, but of interstate levels. This principle adopted by the international organisation binds us and all the directives and regulations adopted by the European Union, or NATO. They are also based on these principles and these principles are the basis for organising this system. The Republic of Croatia is normally an integral part of this system and in this environment in which we are and the memorandum speaks so much that we will also provide our abilities and our capacities for possible assistance and assistance in other countries, that is to say, to expect other countries in accordance with their ability to provide their capacities and capabilities to us. We can freely say that the Republic of Croatia of all the listed countries has the most developed system in this respect, but the system is not as such but as a system in protecting and saving it should be said that it is one system based on countless organisations, legal persons, from associations, bodies to state institutions. That we can count tens, dozens of organisations involved, that we can freely say that at a given moment, whether directly, indirectly, whether an organization is engaged in the primary activities of protection and rescue and as a primary activity, or whether it is secondary to it, or only at a given time will it provide adequate technical or personnel resources to help involve several hundred thousand people in this system. That's how it is, just to mention that they are organized by fire, emergency medical care, health care, mountain service, speleological associations, all these other associations, utility companies that are involved from HEP, water industry to police and military. So here's the numbers I'm talking about. All those institutions that I've listed, and I've probably dropped some, they're creating this system. In order for the system to be prepared and trained to react in such reactions, it is important that all these organisations, regardless of the level of organisation and the status of organisation, develop in their activity in quality, as high quality as possible, and that they develop in general have their own specific regulations based on the development and need to have as high-quality and human resources as possible, i.e. material-technical resources as possible, which are generally achieved through quality funding. The whole system is very complicated, because it has a series of levels and organisation and funding, and networking in that system, especially organisations that are engaged in the basic activities of the system of protection and rescue. However, at a given time, all these organisations are being converted, can be transformed into a state system and are then all the capacities of a country that can function. In order for all of this to work, the normal state must have its own mechanisms to regulate it, the State has a Ministry of Internal Affairs which is a resolute body in the area, and also has a State Administration for Protection and Rescue which is a administrative organisation, or body that should be directly involved in stimulating the promotion of a complete system with coordination and management to simplify major accidents and disasters. The whole system has been developed in the Republic of Croatia since 2004 by the adoption of the Protection and Rescue Act and the amendments that have been made, and we can freely say that the law is basically good. The law has led to decentralisation in the system of protection and rescue, i.e. it has set it precisely on the basis and principles of the international civil protection organisation, which is the principle that any problem is solved from the lowest to the greater. Therefore, municipalities, cities, counties have been given to say so a series of obligations arising from such arrangements, which are obligations related both to system planning, system organisation and operational system organisation, and system financing. Therefore, cities and municipalities, especially with the latest amendments to the law, have been bound by obligations. I must say that they have not received financial resources for this, and this is now one problem that I will say afterwards, that is, such a system that has been established must be open and flexible. Such a system cannot be built rigidly, it cannot be placed so as to say in firm organisational frameworks, but such a system is flexible, especially because there are bodies, organisations, associations, one major part that deals on a voluntary basis included in that system. Therefore, the system must be flexible, open, but so set that it can meet the needs of the Republic of Croatia at a given time and on such occasions on the basis of this memorandum, especially those of the resources that have professional, i.e. people who are basically dealing with this activity. The organisation of the state administration and the way it has been five years, we believe it has been five years and could have been done even more on the organisation in the implementation of this system. We need to realize that there are certain problems in organising the system, and I'm going to say a few of those problems that I'd like to say. Here's specifically about the obligations of local self-government units and the organisation of the creation of state administration. The State Administration was created as a body that integrated the employees, i.e. the affairs of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, which means in most parts, and these jobs are now transactions in the state administration and the state administration is organised as a state administrative body with hundreds of employees. I'm not going to use the exact number, but I'm not sure 700, 800 people are working today at the state administration. The state administration was formed with 21 district offices and the City of Zagreb, and at the same time with the latest changes and additions of cities, municipalities, cities, counties received almost all local jobs to organise the system in a way that organise civil protection units finance etc. The municipalities and cities found the county in the face of a problem. Who's going to do these professional jobs? Today, cities and municipalities began to find solutions starting with Istria, Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, Split-Dalmatia County, Osijek, Zagreb and a number of cities where people find people, experts to do these jobs and also hire legal persons to do certain professional jobs. This requires the allocation of financial resources. At the same time, we have 21 district offices, detached from the state's protection and rescue administration. We believe that these regional offices should be converted into offices of the county or city bodies and that all those people who are in these regional offices today are in these units of local regional self-government and are doing these tasks, and for the level of state and all that all states must have in meeting their obligations, it would be sufficient to have regional state centres that would primarily exercise control, means control of supervision whether all the safeguards and rescue measures that all those legal entities must implement are implemented, means controlling this and at a given time when the problem of state level can operate and involve. Also in the operating system, there were attempts to create a large number of units that were right here and this had one of the reasons for our need and willingness to participate with other countries when the events required, or to be involved in other activities, so there was a need to form new units after all of this that I had previously listed what existed in the Republic of Croatia. There's no need to do that, all you have to do is use the experiences that have countries around us. They are of the existing capacity units that they have in all these services, the state only has its own interest, which is concerned from the state level that one part of these existing capacities is singled out, monitored, funded and created conditions for them to be the state at a given time to say so under quotes, that is, to all of us at a disposition for all these tasks to be carried out. And I would also say one more thing about one thing I have to say about this Prime Minister's promise that people in the service especially accepted, one promise that was said to form a regional centre in the Divuljes, and here is the memorandum about these countries, the regional centre that we're going to call it. We already have today a regional disaster centre in Divulje where exactly, and primarily for open space fires, a training centre, i.e. a strong centre that will be on the disposition and on the proposals, i.e. on the disposition and needs of both the Republic of Croatia and the country in the environment. The countries in the infection as far as we know are interested, so we expect that part of that center to start working as soon as possible, that center to be formed, because we will primarily benefit. And finally, the Republic of Croatia has enough experience, decades and in the old system. There are also experiences from the Homeland War which are valuable experiences, hence the Republic of Croatia has in developing a system. However, we must also look at how the systems around us are organized and organized. I especially mention countries such as Austria, Italy, Germany, France, therefore these are systems that have been historically organised in this environment and in some ways we can say compatible. We have seen many times in this development and now what solutions exist without offending anyone from this pay phone, as organised in Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and Albania. In these countries these systems are developed under historical reasons, let's say very centrally, I would say in a militaristic way and they are now facing problems that Croatia is not already having at this time, and that is volunteering including as many people as possible in these protection and rescue systems. Therefore, I think that the system that exists today needs to be reorganised, especially with regard to the Law on the Protection of Rescue, or the functioning of the State Administration, just to enable and get one bigger swing so that all these services can continue to develop. The SDP Club will support this Memorandum Act. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19366	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished counterpart Kresimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19367	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. This bill is one in a series of laws that we have discussed over the past months, bilateral, multilateral all have one common goal that concerns strengthening the ability to provide assistance in the conditions of various disasters, regardless of whether natural disasters or technical, technological disasters, strengthening capabilities, organisational strengthening of human abilities, material, technical, financial and any other importance, I would say the important task that, in the case of such catastrophic incidents, as much as possible, the loss of both human life and material equipment and everything else. For this reason, all these initiatives, all these laws, both at bilateral level and at the level of multiple foreign contracts, have their own humanitarian and any other dimension. This bill aims in some way also to institutionally establish an initiative for preparedness and prevention in disasters for South East Europe, which is the best and how this institutional framework is defined, how it is organised, manageable, financial and so on, are parts of this law that regulate all important issues in more detail. This bill is also the result of a political desire to further promote, deepen regional co-operation in the area of disaster prevention. The Memorandum of Understanding in the institutional framework, the initiative for preparedness and prevention in disasters for Southeast Europe was drawn up in Zagreb on 24 September 2007. The original signatories of that memorandum were: the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Slovenia and this shows the scope and importance of the law that has a very important regional character. The disaster preparedness and prevention initiatives of this initiative have been addressed on issues of mutual assistance in the territory of each agreed party, the conditions of cooperation in prevention and cooperation in the areas of mutual notification in the threatening disasters, the consequences of which, but also, the areas of cooperation, are linked to education, training, training and all that determines the capabilities of the united or united forces that intervene in the event of such incidents. What is often pointed out in similar documents also concerns the exchange of scientific and technical information as well as the definition of joint projects and the improvement of appropriate material equipment and technology that can be used in such interventions. In any case, the law and the bill and the framework set up is broad enough to provide significant opportunities to make all those involved in the prevention of disasters and aid as effective as possible. The main objectives of this initiative as set out in Article 1 refer to building institutional capacities, management organisations but also to creating a regional network as well as any other assumptions for effective action in the event of natural or technological disasters. The development and creation of the best possible management methods is part of an organisational structure which is given appropriate attention under this proposal. A clear legislative framework, regulations, codes, standard operating procedures and all that is important in order for the joint work of people, units, all those likely to meet for the first time in such difficult conditions of action of stress, disaster and everything else to be as coherent and more effective and useful as possible. What is also clearly defined to the articles of this proposal and it is important to highlight the relevant governance structure that needs to be given to this initiative, give this proposal the right effective, organisational form since it is a multilateral agreement. First of all, the most important thing to say is that the most important governing political body is, in fact, an institution called a regional meeting, which, the body representing and making decisions consisting of leaders, directors, directors of the competent authorities for managing the disasters of individual countries and which is the body that defines the annual work programmes, meets each year, defines the annual work programme, the budget and approves specific projects and can be set up by appropriate working groups. The DDPI regional meeting, as said by the disaster prevention institutions, provides a political framework for the initiative and serves as a basis for internal consultations and recommendations to be forwarded to the relevant national authorities regarding decision-making in national governments. It promotes networking and cooperation with international partners and factors, ensures the exchange of information and experiences, ensuring the dissemination of acquired knowledge and best examples of practices in the field of preparedness, prevention and response to disasters. This governing political body shall be strengthened by the relevant advisory expert body in order to give the relevant expert expertise to that political level consisting of an advisory committee which included experts who possess practical knowledge and represent international partners and experts who are invited in certain situations. The Regional Meeting may also set up appropriate working groups as technical bodies to develop and support specific projects. The administrative support of this initiative shall be provided through the corresponding secretariat and the necessary appropriations and funding of the work of this institution shall be provided through the insurance administrative costs defined at EUR 25 000 and paid by the end of April of each year. According to this proposal, the law created an appropriate legislative and organisational assumption that this institution could act in a quality and effective manner in the space of these countries in the event of possible natural disasters, fires, earthquakes, floods and so on or various technical, technological incidents that are not unusual: thermopower plants, nuclear power plants, various chemical processes and plants and so on. Therefore, it is obvious that all preventive measures in the organisational, legislative and financial sense are put in place through such an organisational form and will therefore give support to the confirmation of this memorandum from the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19368	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HSS Club, colleague Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19369	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. No matter what this is about me, I will seek to shorten this debate, because my colleagues in front of me have really detailed and extensively pointed out the important details of this memo. But let me say a few sentences on behalf of the HSS club. The Croatian Peasant Party has analysed the proposed solutions to the content of this memo and believes that the solutions offered are good and that they can largely achieve the target, a goal that points to preparedness for disaster prevention and contributes to building institutional capacity for disaster management in the countries of the region. We are confident that by strengthening and improving bilateral and multilateral cooperation by improving the agreement between countries and exchanging information on prevention and reacting to disasters at all levels of the competent authorities for the management of disasters in Southeast Europe, which are in line with national rules on exchange of information, we are achieving one of the main objectives. In addition to this, we support other tasks related to supporting countries in the region in order to achieve the best possible disaster management systems and to link legislation, develop disaster preparedness programmes to improve efforts, integrate into future projects as one of the important objectives is to exchange acquired knowledge and check preparedness for disaster management acquired from practice. Since we support the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in achieving security and security cooperation and cooperation with neighbouring countries, that is, the countries in the region think that this law would clearly point to the state's determination to improve the overall areas of security with neighbours, or countries in the immediate environment. The text of the agreement is written with an emphasis on humanitarian security and cooperation and regardless of the interests of anyone, so to speak, and the will of any of the signatories states. We consider it a good, formal legal framework for co-operation between countries in Southeast Europe as a basis for developing and accepting concrete plans and operational cooperation programmes, bringing interests and other actions into line. The text of the memorandum shows that some countries in the region have so far failed to recognise the interests of this initiative, such as Greece, Serbia, Kosovo. We believe that soon this interest and they will recognize as the countries signatories of this memo. However, we would also like to get an answer to the question of what is currently the position of the Republic of Croatia in this area in the context of the memorandum provisions and whether, in the near future, the involvement of interested countries on this initiative is expected, and what are the chances of obtaining support for specific projects such as the announcement of the idea of a fire-fighting regional centre for Southeast Europe, as we have heard from earlier discussions. It's about the Wildlife Center that came up after the Cornish tragedy. Realising these ideas, the Republic of Croatia could become the leader of fire in the region for which there are real assumptions as well as possibilities. We also hope that the benefits of the Republic of Croatia will be more than 25000 euros in the amount of each party's annual financial contribution. We believe that the competent authorities will recognise their interest and contribute to improving efficiency in disaster prevention. The HSS Club supports all measures and procedures that contribute to the protection and rescue of citizens and material goods, and we support this bill accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19370	Thank you, Your Honor. We now have an individual hearing application. Dear colleague Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19371	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll try to be as brief as possible, because I can see that the time has passed and that more or less everyone would be gone by now. But let me say a few more things. The term protection and rescue has been used in Croatia since 2004, but in the environment around us in Europe and in this environment the term civil protection is used. Therefore, civil protection is around us in Europe as a rule what we mean by protection and rescue. That's what I'm saying why? Because there are multiple problems in communication and understanding when someone on the outside is talking about civil protection, then we've been percepting civil protection like we have since 2004, and civil protection is one of the structures of the system. Why am I talking about this? Because civil protection is one of the structures of the system which, as well as the basis of this Memorandum, must be trained to function, i.e. at a given time and used on the basis of those tasks and objectives set out in the Memorandum, which is an aid to prevention in the region. Civil protection with us, the Civil Protection Act hasn't been passed yet. It has already been brought for several years, however it is still missing. Civil protection as one of the structures today which is a structure such as firemen, police, such as any Red Cross etc. There's also civil protection. It must be formed and one legal solution is needed because there has been a change. Civil protection doesn't know the environment around us as a military obligation anymore. Therefore, military and military obligations as such have been abolished and civil protection of Western European countries have found various solutions. And the Italians went through volunteering and stimulating through volunteering to engage people with their will in civil protection units. Austrians, the Germans used existing resources in their countries, which are in their countries the structures of civil protection that they added to existing fire structures. In the Republic of Croatia there are 1800 voluntary fire companies operating in all municipalities and cities, almost all municipalities and cities. These are volunteers on a voluntary basis and then, in the western countries, mentioning Austria, Germany as an example said it would stimulate these systems and that they would act as civil protection. This means that they will add more appropriate conditions so that they can now meet and be involved in this system to satisfy what is necessary, and both people and resources are needed at the time when there is an accident. Therefore, I also call on this job to be done as soon as possible, and that is exactly what one of the government's tasks is to propose. And the next thing I'd like to say is that the task of the state and the structure and the State Protection and Rescue Administration is precisely to enable frameworks to be created, to allow the creation of frameworks for the effective functioning of existing organisations, especially those that are let's say the bearers of that system, bearers of systems of protection and rescue. One of the carriers, being the holder of the system, is the fire department in the Republic of Croatia, which has 60,000 operational firefighters in volunteer fire, which has 2750 professional firefighters, which in public units, has certain organisational problems in the economy that unites over 120 thousand members of voluntary fire companies that are much wider than operational firefighters. In an operational sense, a level has been reached, which we have witnessed here is also this summer's fire season and past fire seasons that has reached the level of action and that can be responded to those threats that represent, especially in the summer months in the open space. However, the fire department has one problem that is organised in the state administration for protection and rescue. At the beginning of the year, at the order of the Prime Minister of the Interior, he organised a joint meeting with the management structure of the fire department on which I was present, and the secretary of state was present and a unique conclusion of all the structures of the fire department, and when I speak structure, I mean the Croatian Fire Department, the Association of Professional Firefighters, or the majority Union of firefighters and professional firefighters in the economy, agreed that the fire department must have an organisational body at the country level. It was a unique conclusion and by assignment from that meeting it was, a proposal was made to amend and supplement the Fire Department Act. Amendments to the Fire Department Act are in the process. They therefore came to the government's procedure, according to both officials and vice presidents, I must say, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Djurđe Adlesic, who also made public statements on television that any proposal that will come in line by firefighters cannot be considered and generally not accepted. Therefore, I appeal because we are now on 22nd today, asking the Government and the Prime Minister and the Resort Ministry to do what needs to be done as soon as possible because there are two problems. One problem is that organisationally, as defined through the state administration, it doesn't work. Another problem concerns finances, so all the talks have been conducted and I ask that as soon as possible these days make those decisions so that when the budget is now being done for the next year, it can be built in and that changes and additions to the Fire Department, to improve the model and to give the fire department even more momentum because it is one of the holders of the system of protection and rescue, and it is precisely under the obligations of this Memorandum that we have, as a rule, fire forces and structures and which are engaged in a large series and large range of tasks resulting in helping other countries, as well as those needs that we have. Here, thank you with that in the end. I have used a little abuse on behalf of the firefighters, but I had to make clear, publicly, that requirement agreed in all structures, regardless of political commitment and so on, this is a proposal from the firefighters co-signed by all and he was given and I am asking the Government and the Prime Minister, namely all and resolute ministry to consider this proposal and to make the appropriate decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19372	Thank you very much. There are no other individual applications. Yes, you fellow Dino signed up as a closing statement on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, so I give you my word again.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19373	Here, I'll give up, I won't do it anymore. I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19374	Thank you very much. This is what we've exhausted all the applications for the hearing. I'm closing the debate. The Secretary of State thinks he also used his right of inaction in the final word. We'll vote when the conditions are met. This concludes the fifth point. The 6th point is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on sub-regional action plan for prevention, preparedness for and response to sudden pollution of the Adriatic Sea in greater proportions, tomorrow at half past ten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-23-0.u19375	The final draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative for disasters for Southeast Europe. It was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 156. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative for disasters for Southeast Europe. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find it unanimous with 110 votes for the accepted proposal, the final draft of the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I welcome you all, I've been away for a few days. As we heard this morning, and as I was informed, some of the clubs asked the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, to address the Parliament on the occasion of this situation that occurred yesterday. I think it's good to speak to the Croatian Parliament. The government was supposed to have a regular session at 12.30 right now that we're continuing this session, so it's a little delayed. I would like to inform you that the presidents of the parliamentary parties have been invited to the VONS, that there, we have discussed individual, concrete and other issues of interest for this one of our own, to address this situation that we have. And yes, I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to address the Parliament with the need to continue the cabinet session. I don't know if we're assessing it ourselves, I don't think we should discuss it right now, this is information about what's going on and what's going on, and after the VONS session to say what's been there and what's concluded. And we've had some discussion about some of these issues the other day, and I suggest if you agree that we don't open the debate after the information because we have to. Here you go, Mr. Milanovic.
