ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20230	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. The Law on the Treatment of Infertility and Fertility and Biomedical Assistance is before you. I would ask that in the debate that follows this proposal we do not use the term artificial insemination, because in this act there is nothing artificial, but everything is based on the profession, on medicine and on life, and there is nothing in it artificially, so please if it is possible to stick to that term biomedically assisted insemination. This law, which is regulated by the Law on Health Measures for the free birth of children only to point out that today is Child Day and that today is the day when we celebrate the birth of a new life, so in this sense this law would be something that in Croatian times and in Croatian people is a law that is generally accepted and a law that should not have any obstacles in the conduct itself. In fact, the development of medical science and technology has enabled the application of new and more perfect and demanding forms of medical aid in the treatment of infertility, and the law that we now have is a law that was passed in 1978, a law that is absolutely out of date and a law that does not correspond to the present state because, say, in this law, we still have workers. Workers have long disappeared from Croatia and definitely the law does not fit the current state. The proposed solution to this proposal provides for health measures to assist women and men in the conception of children, determine the types of fertilisation procedures for biomedical aid, and the rights, obligations and responsibilities of all participants in these procedures, health professionals and health institutions. So, the law has an idea and a goal to simply edit a system in which it is now not arranged. In 2004, HDZ tried to pass a law that was good, which was progressive. However, since the law did not come from the rotation of the Parliament, it remained somewhere in the basement and was forgotten in 2004 in drawers of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Let me just point out that the demographic picture of Croatia is extremely bad. We die more than we are born. And if something is not done in this area, and this law simply belongs to laws that promote the demographic restoration of Croatia. Croatia will be 30 years smaller. The Croats will simply die. Just to point out that in its directive, the European Union has declared infertility with disease and that this disease should also be treated in the Demographic Directive of the European Union, the treatment of infertility by biomedical assistance is something guaranteed in the European Union that all citizens of the European Union have the right to gain and access to this procedure. On the other hand, our population is very old. We are getting older and older and in time we will have more inhabitants in Croatia who are older than younger if we fail to move the demographic renewal, and this law is a law that allows as many Croats as possible, as many families who want to have that child and get it. Why does the SDP propose this law? Because the state has to worry about the health of its citizens, and in this case as I said infertility is a disease and the Republic of Croatia needs to take care of health and allow families who want their child to get it. On the other hand, you were aware that there were various abuses, there were various affairs about the sale of egg cells. All this was possible because the law that was passed in 1978 did not regulate the area and it is necessary to settle it not only because of couples and families, but also because of the legal framework in which this law should be moved. And the third thing that is extremely important, the Minister of Health noted that waiting lists should be shortened, so in this area we have waiting lists that are over a year and because they cannot exercise their right, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia go abroad, most often in Maribor, Vienna or recently in Prague or if they do not have the financial means to pay for this procedure abroad simply give up their wish. The desire for a child is one of the primary desires of life and simply because they do not have financial resources, these couples must give up. And last but not least, but first, and because every child is important to us. Now a few things about medical facts and what is in Croatia. It is clear that in Croatia we have more and more infertile couples. The increase in male infertility in 1980 was 22%. It's about 38% today. So 40% of men have fertility problems, and on the other hand, because of their careers and because of their rhythm of life, they get married which they later have a child as soon as possible. So in my day when I studied, probably Professor Hebrang, when she was a firstborn in 38 years, it was a general panic, and today it is something that is quite normal and something that is quite common, not only in Croatia, but in the world. And as time goes on, then the fertility of women falls because it's normal and physiological. So over time, we have more and more infertility and women. According to the medical profession today, about 15% of couples are more seriously infertile, and without medical help, they can't have children, they can't exercise their right to do so. Biomedically assisted fertilisation is one of the greatest achievements of gynecology in the 20th century. It has allowed about 15,000 children to be born in Croatia in the last 25 years. It's a city the size of my Makarska, Poreč, New Gradiška. 15 thousand children in Croatia were born and that is something over which we cannot close our eyes and we need to enable a framework to be born another 15 thousand, another 30, 50 thousand, as many children as those families want children to have. And what is more important is that new knowledge has been made possible in reproduction, so here are some facts about how Croatia has been working in this area. I regret to say that we're getting worse and worse because we're in '82. the years began, and 23. Ten. '83. The first child was born. Today, that child is 25 years old. We were the seventh country in the world. In 1992, we had fertilization from a previously frozen embryo, we were the 25th country in the world. In 1994 we had a micro-injection of the 33rd country in the world, and in 1998 transfer... 20 countries in the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today we're somewhere to start. Why are we at the beginning? Because there is no legal regulation, but there is no desire for that profession to develop into those branches on which it should be like it was in 1983. The current situation that the biomedical assisted fertilisation centres disappears in Croatia. Let's say, at the Clinical Hospital Center in 2007 there was not one procedure, and in 2005, we spoke a thousand 700 procedures, in 2007 a thousand 400, and just to tell you that Petrova had 2,000 procedures in 1996. It only says that we lack the law, but it tells us that we do not work systematically so that this method is developed and established in Croatia. When we talk about the European framework of all the countries in Europe have such a law, transition countries have passed it between 1997 and 2001, and Croatia has passed this law in 1978 I do not consider it a law. We definitely don't have the law and we belong to a group of countries where I wouldn't want to be, which is Serbia, Macedonia, Albania, Chechnya, Georgia. So it's time to get out of that group. What are the legal solutions in Europe? Different. For example, the donation of egg cells is allowed in all countries except Germany, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Austria and Ireland. Surrogacy is allowed in the United Kingdom and Israel, but also in Russia, France, Ukraine, and even in the United States of America, which we say is a conservative country. What do we suggest? We propose that this law, which is before you, increase the number of children born alive in Croatia, reduce waiting lists, enable this process to everyone who needs it, as well as raise the scientific and professional level of centres dealing with this. You have very few centers in Croatia at the moment. You have "Peter" and "St. Ghost, you've got Mercury. These are the three most important centres in Croatia. The other centers have practically shut down. The River is still here, and the other centers that were once quite developed are practically gone. Our Slovenian neighbours, there are a million and a half, make 2,000 procedures a year. This means that Croatia should have about 6,000 procedures per year. Today we have a thousand and 400. And what the Slovenians have shown has shown that if they rule out biomedically assisted fertilisation, then their negative growth is greater than when they turn it on. Therefore, they have shown that this process is definitely the method of something that helps the demographic restoration of Slovenia. And it is also recognised at European level, so that Slovenia is one of the leading countries in this area. What do we do with this law? We arrange that the right to medical assistance is given to all women and men who cannot achieve their desire for their own offspring, we remove health reasons for reducing infertility, we allow for the fertilisation of husbands or donated seeds, we enable the use of new forms of biomedically assisted fertilisation and what is important we protect the rights and interests of persons participating in these procedures. The law defines, which is before you, the embryo is defined. The embryo is formed by fertilisation of the egg cell, and the early embryo is a zygot or embryo that develops outside the womb for less than 14 days and until a primitive stripe occurs. It's a definition of the plot that the law hasn't had since 1978. Who has the right to biomedically assisted insemination means a full - age and business capable woman and men who are married or living in an extramarital community a couple who cannot expect to have sexual conception and cannot be helped or a couple who cannot help other treatment procedures. A woman must be of age who is suitable for the birth of a child. The debate has shown that the law should define the age of the mother, up to the age of this procedure, so that somewhere in the debate it has defined the age of about 42 to 43, so that is the age to which a woman can enter this process. And the law didn't allow replacement motherhood. By law we allowed the donation of sex cells, we allowed those couples who couldn't have, which one of the members of that pair is either infertile or has no ovary or no sperm it is possible to get sperm and egg cells from a seed and egg cell bank. That part of the 1978 law isn't regulated. Procedures are carried out by centres dealing with this area. Those centers have to be licensed. This law also regulates that these centres must have a licence granted to them by the National Commission for Biomedical Supported Insemination and with the agreement of the Minister of Health. The National Centre, the National Commission for Biomedical Aided Fertilisation in the Law, is scheduled to be in one of the centres, but the debate also showed that we agree that it should be put into the national commission and register of semen and ova that it must be in the Ministry of Health in order to ensure the continuity and confidentiality of the data. The SDP advocates increasing the right of biomedical assisted fertilisation procedures, today it is the age of 38 years and three procedures on the burden of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. We advocate that women have the right or couples have the right to six procedures on the burden of HZZO and at the age of 43. The law also states that up to three embryos should be entered into the body of the woman. That's what the waist talked about. Depending on the attitudes, somewhere between two and three embryos would be the most optimal number of embryos that can be entered into the body of a woman, but with time and development of the centre will likely decrease. We have defined the legal storage and storage of embryos, ova and semen cells and it has been defined to be the longest of five years from the day of storage and for more than five years with the consent of the National Commission for Biomedical Aided Insemination. The law lays down a unique register of donors and donors. This unique register allows for control of who is given egg cells and where the egg cells came from, and what is also important by law is that donors and donors of sex cells are allowed to give their egg cells and semen cells at all times and only in the same health facility. The law defines motherhood and paternity. The law defined the mother of the child is the one who gave birth to him, with the need to change the definition of the mother in the Family Law and on the other hand defined that the father of the child is a married, extramarital mate provided that he gave written consent to this procedure. And what the law also defines is that motherhood or paternity is not allowed to establish. It was a dispute over whether a child conceived by fertilisation has the right to know what his biological parent is and in the debate it has proved that this right should be defined in some way so that in the amendments to the law that if it is in another reading, but since all the committees voted negatively, that the government gave a negative opinion probably won't go to another reading, which I regret because we opened up a broad debate and we could bring a common consensus. The consensus that Minister Milinovic is calling today when we talk about health reform. A consensus is required for health reform but simply the law that the SDP has proposed simply rejects, so I don't believe we're going to enter another reading. We've banned what we've forbidden by law from genetic manipulation. So it's not possible to choose the sex of a child except in cases where there are some genetic diseases associated with sexual chromosomes, then it's possible to do genetic manipulation to avoid hereditary disease associated with Y chromosome. Cloning is not allowed and what is also important is not allowed by law to mix animal and human sex cells. We have allowed and we want to improve scientific and research work in this area but it is only allowed for the purpose of preserving and improving human life and only when the effectiveness of other methods is not sufficient to achieve the results expected, for example the new President of the United States of America Barack Obama advocates that in this field of leave research and research is allowed only with written consent of marriage or extramarital partners, with the approval of the Minister and the National Commission. This law would also like to launch one more thing, which is to resolve the status of unhealthy workers in the health care system. As you know in the health care system, there are health care professionals who participate in treating patients such as physicists, biologists, molecular biologists, psychologists, and we think that this law would encourage these healthcare workers to be equal to all healthcare workers because they participate in the treatment process even though they are not directly in contact with the patient, so we believe that healthcare professionals are persons who have an education of unhealthy orientation and directly in the form of occupation provide health care to the public with the mandatory respect for moral and ethical principles of health care. What are the expected effects of the law? Increase the number of procedures, increase the number of live births, reduce the waiting list, improve the demographic picture of Croatia, improve professional health work and what is important to highlight and prevent abuse. That Croatian citizens support this law is a study carried out in 2005 that showed that about 60% of Croatian citizens support biomedically assisted fertilisation because it is something that is the fluid of medicine and allows the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to accomplish what is most important to them and that is to have a child. Parents who want children and can't have it, we can't put ourselves in theirs, theirs. They want to have a child and that child will get no matter what we pass this law or we don't pass this law you parents will sell both the house and the car and will go where that service can get. I am sorry that we are talking about Vienna children at this time in Croatia, we are talking about the Maribor children, now we are talking about powder children, and we are not talking about Croatian children starting the procedures of biomedical fertilisation. I know HDZ will vote against this law. One of the reasons is probably the church's influence, but what I'd like is for this law to be consensual because when we got married, the church didn't tell us who we were going to marry, so I think we should let go of the expertise and not talk about whether or not we should bring the child we wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20231	Thank you. The Committee on Gender Equality will hold a meeting today at 13:30 in the hall of Ante Starčević, so 149 and not as previously announced. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the government's position? Yeah. State Secretary, Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, several clear views should be indicated. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has, among other things, a proposal and a reference to the Croatian Assembly of the Law on, on medical insemination, which should in one comprehensive way resolve certain issues which are absolutely related to the scientific, moral, ethical, religious and all other aspects of Croatian society in a way that will certainly enable the system of therefore systematic processes of medical fertilisation, but in that part of the proposal which will also ensure what is most important in the whole system, and that is one word and concept, that is quality. What do we have to say? Medical science today, we can thank the development and techniques and sciences can do great wonders. We're aware two days ago on television for the first time we found out that in the world we were using stem cells to practically autotransplant a certain part of a body organ and it proved in its system that it practically slowly reached an area where there are no borders. The area where there are no borders is a very thin area and is a very thin area and is a very narrow area which, on the one hand, is in the best interest as it was done two days ago with extraordinary results coming into a situation that can be used in manipulations and many other situations that are simply difficult to say now but definitely deserves contempt, condemnation and everything else. In the Republic of Croatia, it is true that this problem is not regulated by law or part of the law which absolutely does not regulate this issue from 1978. However, by adopting a proposal that will not introduce such order in this problem, it would make the situation worse. We all agree and this clear message should be that one such law needs the Republic of Croatia. She needs a few things. It needs to be introduced from the introduction of a system of control and quality, as already resolved between the other and European directives of 2006 and 2004, but even more from the system to help citizens in some way to allow them what is in a family perhaps the most sacred. Which belongs to those five postulates of life towards Freud, according to psychiatry. So from self-preservation to species maintenance. But it should also be said that this proposal must legally ensure the inability of trade, the inability to get information out in public in such a way that it simply cannot be prevented, the disappearance of documentation and all of this we were quite aware of in the past time that it was happening. And for such a reason, we believe that the proposal that is addressed, which is absolutely well-intentioned, and we want to believe that it is in good interest, is completely unsettled because it does not provide precisely in those segments. So we're going to add what parts are these? Well, we had a situation in the Republic of Croatia clearly and loudly to say that the missing complete data were guided by artificial insemination. About medically assisted fertilisation, medical fertilisation or any term used in the scientific public. That this story has not been resolved to this day and that there are great challenges in the judiciary how to resolve that story. And in this legislative proposal, it is again proposed that such a single registry be run by an institution that runs it, and it has been proven impossible. On the other hand, we had a situation that in the control system absolutely failed control. There were no regulations, and that's where we agree, but we have to make sure there's no doubt at all whose egg cell was donated, whose seed cell was donated, when the procedure was made, and who got it? Not to say that there is a medically important system, which is that the data on donors must be recorded for the transfer of what this legislative proposal also wants to refer to. It is a genetic hereditary disease and all other factors that would ensure that a child who came into the world tomorrow in a way that was medically fertilized would also be quality in his health care and in his life. Therefore, the problem is extremely complex and as far as we believe that the proposal has been proposed and the issue has been addressed, we believe that the proposal that will be given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the most recent time in a public debate in which the proposal will resolve matters in a way that is extremely firm in control that it will much better meet the standards of control and system and provide medically assisted insemination compared to this proposal that lies before you today. In addition to the opinions that you received from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where it is stated that in the normative part of the regulation of the law and in certain articles of the law there are contradictory, therefore, simply measures where, in one article of the law, it is said that no medical insemination can be done for the purpose of scientific research, in the second part, it is possible to carry out scientific research under certain criteria, we believe that the law is in such a way indeterminate and would lead to major doubts in the application of such a law, which will further, if you all agree with me, that the lack of such a law is certainly not good but the adoption of a law that would further bring about the disorder, rather than to clarify things, would certainly be bad, if you did not say with catastrophic consequences. For this reason, from the basic fact that the bill is called the Law on the Treatment of Infertility, and that only in Article 3 is cited as infertility of diagnostics in the first paragraph, and possibly as a procedure in the second paragraph, and that in the whole part of the law, infertility treatment is not specified, it is true that according to the World Health Organization and according to Croatian laws, infertility is a disease. However, infertility treatment is procedures in medical institutions that try to cure infertility, and medical fertilisation is a process that comes when all infertility treatment procedures simply do not produce results and then resorts to one medical procedure to compensate for infertility cannot be cured. Therefore, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we believe that this legislative proposal should not be accepted and we also announce that since it is necessary to regulate the issue and the area of medical insemination, that it will, in the near term, mean perhaps within the next ten days, continue this debate that has already begun in public, that it means a large comprehensive debate in order for Croatia to receive a law which certainly deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20233	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20234	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Health and Social Care Committee discussed the proposal for a law on the treatment of infertility and fertilisation procedures with biomedical aid as a home working body, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, Article 76. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative informed the board members of the main issues to be regulated by the proposal for that law. He noted that the process of insemination with biomedical aid in the Republic of Croatia was legally regulated by the regulation of 1978, which at the time of adoption was a modern regulation, but at the present moment and the stage of the development of medical science, a new law should be passed. During the debate, committee members agreed that it is necessary to regulate medically assisted fertilisation legally, however, this bill is unsettled, leaves a series of open issues and does not contribute to the legal arrangement of the issue of medically assisted insemination in full. In the first place, in the opinion of the members of the Committee, the law itself has been called into question because it suggests that the medically assisted fertilisation procedure for the treatment of infertility, while this is the process of conception applied if the treatment of infertility does not produce results. It is also unacceptable to keep a register of the donor. In particular, the Minister of Health shall be authorised to keep a single register for the whole country, the donor register or the donor register, to designate a health care institution which has the authority to carry out a certain fertilisation procedure. On the contrary, the debate warned that this should be an exclusive state institution, e.g. an agency or any other form of state institution, and not a health institution that itself carries out the assisted fertilisation procedure. The legislative proposal opens up a number of ethical and other sensitive issues in the field of infertility treatment, insemination with medical assistance. For example. This appropriation is intended to cover the expenditure on technical assistance and other expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Then, the number of trials approved, the protection of the rights of the child, etc. It is also indicated that there is a complete lack of provisions on the prevention and protection of the health of women whose implementation would significantly contribute to the removal of the cause of infertility. In the opinion of most board members, the bill is incomplete. According to the presentation of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have heard that a draft bill has already been prepared which will address the issue of medically assisted fertilisation in full in accordance with the European Union directives. After the discussion, members of the board decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on the treatment of fertility and fertilisation procedures with biomedical aid in the text is not accepted as proposed by the applicant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20235	Thank you. Do the other committees want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20236	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I'd like to say that it's not good if it comes from the position that this law from the SDP club is written in bad faith and some evil intention. Namely, our wish was primarily to open a debate on this issue, to warn that this segment in Croatia is not sufficiently legislative or almost legislative, because the existing legislation is so out of date compared to what Croatian medicine can do. So our law was, in fact, our sincere desire and effort to try to propose a solution to the regulation of the area of medically assisted fertilisation and thus to help citizens who unfortunately are increasingly in Croatia who are being treated with infertility. He said Mr. Golem could enter an area where there were no borders. As far as medicine is concerned, I think that's exactly why we need the law to avoid any manipulation, any abuses we've had so far, so that we can set the law in some way the limits in which we're going to move and know what's allowed in the field of biomedical aid and what's not allowed. Now it's open space to do whatever it wants. You can't even punish anyone for all the manipulations and what can happen right now. This law was supposed to be marked P.Z.E. the law, therefore, which is in line with European legislation because it is simply a law which we will have to comply with both European guidelines and European legislation in 15 days or a month. It should also be said that the European Council has issued a recommendation recommending in some way all countries to allow their citizens medically assisted fertilisation because Croatia is not the only country with problems with birth and extinction. It is simply almost all of Europe's countries that have a problem with this and medically assisted fertilisation is one of the ways in all countries to help raise birth. A colleague, Miranda Mrsic, has brought data here to us from neighbouring Slovenia, who thanks to an extremely increased number of medically assisted fertilisation procedures, have had much better data on the number of live births than the deceased. This law is kind of a middle road, so I would define it. So this law is neither excessively liberal nor conservative, it's one environment. We felt, therefore, that according to the example of some European countries and their legislation which we also served in writing this law, we felt that this one midway was something acceptable to Croatian society, which is acceptable and therefore medical. In fact, in a study conducted several years ago by the FK nearly two-thirds of our citizens made a positive statement about medically assisted fertilisation, they have a positive view of it and believe that something like this needs to be regulated in the Republic of Croatia and that it is something that is good. Therefore, by looking at the attitudes of our citizens, we feel that these solutions are one environment and something that is acceptable to everyone. It should be said that unfortunately in Croatia there is an increasing number of our married couples, there are currently around 15% who are being treated for infertility thanks to the lack of education on sexual education that we have been seeking for years to introduce into our schools. There is also an increasing number of sexually transmitted diseases that, unfortunately, result in infertility in both men and women at the age of when women achieve their desire for offspring. Therefore, medically assisted fertilisation should be regulated. It is not good for our citizens to go to our neighbouring countries when our medicine can provide equally high quality procedures to help fertilize here in Croatia. So that's what the data says. So we had our first child born in '83. The IVF method, therefore, has developed to some extent, but thanks to the fact that we have stopped investing in this part and medicine is a bit of a waste and is not developing in the direction in which it could develop, which means that we could be side by side to all European countries not only European but also globally, for example, in the year 83, we were the seventh country in the world to which the first child was given by the IVF method. I think the data we've highlighted here is that in the last 25 years we've received about 15,000 children, so by medically assisted fertilization we've received cities the size of Makarska, Poreč or New City are simply indicators that we can't pretend not to see. I don't think anyone has the right to give up any child in Croatia and at least one large number of children we can or have so far received from medically assisted fertilisation. If we put a little more into all this and as far as medicine is concerned, if we open a legal space for medically assisted fertilisation, if we provide a little more procedures that would be financed by the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, I think that this figure could be significantly increased and that is, in any case, in a situation where Croatia is extinct something that is extremely important and I think that each lip is invested in the future of Croatia, in children simply something that is a good stake and we cannot treat it as any cost in the Republic of Croatia. It's simply our role in our future and our survival. I'd like to say that we were going down some kind of middle road. Here, I'm going to say, for example, two things about European countries. In European countries, for example, an egg cell donation is allowed in all countries except Germany, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Austria and Ireland and as regards insemination of the donor seed is allowed in all countries except Ireland. So here's that, for example, two data. In some countries, surrogate motherhood and fertilisation of therefore extramarital couples or women with no heterosexual relationship are allowed. So we didn't get into that part, we chose this middle variant that we think is kind of acceptable to everyone in the Republic of Croatia. The fact that this law is acceptable to the profession has also shown our round table that we have organized with experts who deal with therefore medically assisted insemination. The profession said that the law was properly written, of course, along with all the improvements they had made to their proposals there. The profession warned, however, that the law should regulate the upper age limit for medically assisted fertilisation. We agreed with them. We think maybe we should put the age limit up because it wouldn't be good if we put it in, so the waist says what is the most favourable age limit for medically assisted fertilization to get one situation where grandmothers are actually going to be moms. It's not natural if a woman doesn't know by 45 she can be pregnant and have a baby today. Here, perhaps this should be treated and in this segment medically assisted fertilization. That's kind of the attitude of the profession, so we wouldn't get to it if I didn't know in some slightly older years that women could have a child because then the question is how are you going to raise him because the child still needs to be cared for by some age parents. If you become a mother at 60 years of age, you can somehow be a quality parent and all that a child needs until he gets on his feet somewhere. The same profession warned that the law should regulate the number of embryos returning to the body of the woman. Somehow it seems to me they've been held back on two plots. They say it's something that's actually medically justified by now. And here, thanks to some of their additional proposals, of course some of the doubts that are open, I think it has proved that this law is acceptable, of course, to all of these amendments that should be made in the law and that we are going to do in this law that we have proposed here. I would also like to say that I am truly sorry that in 2004, it seems to me that at the time Minister Hebrang was Minister of Health, when the Law on Medical Aided Insemination was referred to the parliamentary procedure that the law did not come into the parliamentary procedure and was not adopted. I think it's a law that was well written. It was written by the waist. It's been working on him for a long time. He was well balanced and was one of the few laws that he had made even all the sublaws. So I'm sorry that the law didn't go through, which is why this law has not been in force since then, and it would be good here, maybe it's not to waste any new energy on writing the law so that this law, which is well written with all the accompanying acts, which is rare in our legislation that we have immediately and all the sublegal acts necessary to implement the law, is simply to get that law out again and that this law is passed in this law because, unfortunately, what we see from the government is that the SDP law on medically assisted insemination will not get support, so it is in our interest that this problem is regulated primarily from the position of those parents who are being treated with infertility, who want their children, and then also from the aspect of some state interest and interest in medical professions. So it is in our interest that a quality law be passed in this House and that this problem is regulated. It is in our interest not to pass a law that would close the possibility of medically assisted insemination that would be extremely restrictive and conservative. So Croatia still needs a middle model and I think that our law is somewhere on the trail of that 2004 law and that these are actually the only good, good solutions that should be voted on in this House. What my colleague Mrsic said, I would like once again to underline the parents who want to get to the children will do everything possible to get to the children. He'll go to the end of the world, if he has to sell the entire property, he'll take the loans. They really don't choose the means to reach the children. It is our job as state and this Croatian Parliament to enable our parents in Croatia, to provide them with as much support as possible from Croatian health care as possible from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which should provide financial support and thus get the children from Petrova, St. Ghost, KBC Split, KBC Rijeka and that we may have as few children from Vienna, Maribor or some other countries around us as possible. It is our task, and it is our obligation, and I ask you, therefore, that you may at least miss this law into another reading, and then somehow try to do it in a second reading together with the government's law to make as good a solution as possible primarily for our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20237	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20238	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. So I would start this debate on the proposed law on the treatment of infertility and fertilisation procedures with biomedical aid proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club. At times, controversy on this subject has surfaced in public. One of our writers referred to Kunder's novel Forgiveness waltz. One of the main characters in this Kuner novel is Dr. Škreta, a gynecologist, who is otherwise an expert in voice and in famous Czech spas treats women from infertility. According to Dr. Shrett, he perfected a new method of treatment for infertility in women, and his success was quite mystical. It was by means of special syringes that he used his own sex cells and, according to his successes and methods, abounded with many of his descendants. Of course, on this parody we can say that we had similar examples in Croatia unlike the said novel hero Forgiveness waltz who for the great money planted in other parts of his body we had a case in Croatia well known because the media followed him, the case of Dr. Kurjak who, without the knowledge of his patients, involved something of his own. That's what he's accused of. So he added parts of the human body to a foreign person. Were the women who started with Dr. Shrett and Kurjak happy because they finally had a child? I believe they are. But can they also be after knowing that a child whose mothers are not really theirs? I probably can't. Of course, these examples are indications that the law that we have in force today was passed in 1978, certainly also allowing for different abuses. It has legal gaps, and we all agree together, and this is also said by the government's proposal and representatives of the SDP Club who propose this law that some new solutions should be adopted or that a new legislation should be developed. But by reading this law, we do not actually see that the SDP Club offers a solution to the treatment of infertility or to the prevention of abuses that we have witnessed. I led one of them down. So here is no solution to how to contain Kurjakov's instruction and how to solve problems? What we think is controversial is the linguistic engineering that offers this law because we do not understand why it actually mentions the treatment of infertility because we know that the treatment of infertility should remove the cause. Then there could be insemination without assistance. And the legislative proposal that we are offered does not mention such actions but rather the conditions under which the aided insemination is regulated. We also came to a series of indiscretions by reading this law. One area is regulated. There's no regulation of anything else that's in close connection. This law requires the consent of the expert advisory body, the health institution and the authorisation of the National Commission for Supported Insemination. So couples need to take psychological and social counseling prior to the procedure and be taught legal consequences, but this is not required for donors, men, and women. All they ask for is to get to know the consequences. All you ask for is a review in accordance with the rules of the profession, and it's not clear what the criteria are and whether that's actually enough. In the last 25 years in Croatia, 15 thousand children have been born with this method, and 280 thousand fruits have been destroyed. Well, of course, then this topic raises doubts about the ethical dimension of the method spoken. What we are interested in, and this law does not offer a solution to whether or not anyone is following those children who are born medically assisted by insemination? Because different research in recent times has shown that they are more prone to improvement and therefore we think that they should be monitored from the point of view of their health. Also, this law does not offer a solution to prevent possible incest. This law speaks of keeping the embryo for five years, and then I guess it goes along with that folk's so help you God. The question is raised, especially because of the recent Index affair that we have witnessed who will store the refrigerator, the place where the traps are stored. Don't forget it's about potential children. Is that person supposed to pass some kind of check? This law doesn't speak of it. Can parents be sure that someone under the counter will not sell their embryo, or child to another couple, because it has been and is being prosecuted. How will an incest be prevented? The register is mentioned, but how it will prevent half-brothers and half-sisters who don't know they're related not to falling in love and not to start a family. Although a restriction is proposed for the use of sex cells for the birth of children for up to two families, the problem exists. It's about Croatia, we're a small country. If such a case happened in Croatia, we think it's too much. It is only possible for health reasons to ask the centre to get acquainted with medically important information about the donor or donor. For health reasons, the child’s doctor has the right to have insight into the unique donor register. But what about the child's right. We're at the HSS Club asking what's wrong with the child's rights? Where's the child's right? Everyone has the right to information about their origins. Besides, why would it be a secret if it's allowed? Then why must it be secret or because donors would not be inclined in that case to donate their sex cells or because the village would not talk about it. Furthermore, which means the provision is not permitted to establish the mothering of the donor egg cell of the seed donor. I'd like the motionaries to explain that to us. Also, the problem is older births. They worry about cases where older parents have already come out of a fertilized period of assistance and bring children to the world. He's 70 and she's 58. Does anyone think about the rights of those children who are likely to grow up very quickly without their parents, for they are at such an age that they will not live long. Furthermore, we do not consider that sufficient attention is paid to these procedures of medically assisted insemination from the aspect of female health because it has been shown that by increasing the number of attempts, the risk of malignancies is increased. Why did the legislator not propose that women who pass through them continue to be followed systematically? At a small door in this law is pushed a 14-day limit for so-called. He's wounded the embryo by alluding that it's not life, so he can be let die. That's terrible. Does that have anything to do with the aided insemination? Only if the proposer of this law was counting on material, potential research material so conveniently arranged. Let's remember what happened to the stem cells. In the HSS, we find such provisions inadmissible. We believe that before this law is passed, it is necessary to reach a social consensus on the status of the human embryo and then, after that consensus is reached, only then, to approach the adoption of not only of this law but also of other laws that touch the area of the beginning of human life. In Article 32 of the legislative proposal in question, which regulates that in one process of fertilisation with biomedical aid it is not allowed to enter into a woman's body more than 3 embryos. We believe that this should be considered in any case, as it is known that in the Member States of the European Union rules apply that no more than 2 tariffs may be entered. Just as I have already mentioned in the proposed law, there is no indication of how many attempts can be granted since the number of attempts increases the risk of malignant women’s diseases. We believe that it is inadmissible for other human beings to be made according to their own desires and whims, and therefore we believe that this law, or those who propose it, and those who wrote it, takes care exclusively of people who cannot have children in a natural way, not taking care of children who should thus be conceived. Is the fulfillment of any desire, including those for offspring quite justified and ethically acceptable all if this is technically possible is certain that the subject we need to discuss is the subject. Article 2 of this Law states that special attention should be paid to preserving the health, well - being and the right of a future child. Isn't gentlemen the right of a child, the right to live from its conception and the right to know of its own origin, and this law does not allow it. This is the law on the resolution of consequences, not the removal of causes. And that's why the HSS club certainly can't support it in this form. But I want to point out once again, the desire for offspring is natural and how often it can be heard from personal testimonies it is very strong. It is therefore understandable both to grieve and to disappoint many married couples who cannot begin a child naturally. Statistics unfortunately show that the number of infertile couples is increasing, not only in Croatia. This is the trend in other countries, Europe, the world. In such circumstances, it is often promoted as a solution, but it also imposes a medically assisted fertilisation procedure. However, such a procedure is not often successful, and the suffering that couples suffer after their initial joy, expectations, and hopes continue to increase. For the mother, the procedure also carries certain health risks. The question is certainly sensitive because it enters into the deep intimacy of a human person, but also because it opens and challenges the conscience of every man individually whether he believes or not. On the other hand, the right to a child is as if a child is something that can be owned rather than a person that parents lovingly accept and respect for their integrity both physically and mentally raise to achieve the fullness of their potential. We believe that longing, pain, and disappointment of couples who cannot begin a child can truly be felt by one who has experienced something similar. But we also want to support those couples who choose to adopt the child because they have shown in a number of cases that this child is loved as if it were their own. We agree that this topic certainly deserves a broad debate, and it is good that this debate is open. Such a bill, which is unsecured, does not offer solutions, is not acceptable for us in the HSS Club and we expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose its draft law because surely the law that is in force today does not cover all areas that should be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20239	Thank you. We have six corrections of incorrect allegations. Let's take it in a row. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20240	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague, Petir, who said that children who have received medically assisted insemination are prone to disease. You know very well that such research does not exist, that it is incorrect and it is truly an incredible ease for you to say things. So these kids, 15 thousand children, it's somewhere just what you said to that one flyer that circled around the city in 2004 and that's that kids are getting with MPO stuff. If you really feel that these are children who are sick, furry, that things are then indeed Mrs. Petyr, 15 thousand children, look into their eyes and be ready to tell them. These are citizens of this country who grew up to be adults and many children who are growing up today and will be happy citizens of this country. And to tell them that children who are getting better because of this procedure is really something that was really ugly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20241	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20242	My colleague Opačić injured Rule 209 because he incorrectly interpreted my words. I said that such children should be monitored because the research showed and the research was published in... that the lack of natural growth factor in the fluid, you could have prepared Opačić for this debate and you would know this, in which in vitro conditions embryos may have long-term consequences for people who have started the medically assisted fertilisation process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's research that's been done on both human embryos and water to that conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20243	I would ask that since there are a lot of corrections to stick to the exact quote and correct and the question of injury to the Rules of Procedure is that there is no replica. Let's move on. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20244	Dear Vice President, in her so-called medieval presentation, Petir presented not only a series, a whole series of inaccuracies, but also a few who are offensive. I'll make you right, insulting. That the mothers who gave birth to a medically assisted insemination eventually realized that they were unhappy when they came to realize that they were not their children. Well, they're their kids. To say that these children are not the children of those mothers who gave birth is offensive to these mothers. To say that children born of medically assisted insemination are getting better. Well, my colleague, Petyr, is stegmatizing 15 thousand children who live here, who are part of this society, she calls them patients here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20245	Your Honor, that's not what the esteemed representative said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20246	Third claim... There's no reason to allow biomedically assisted insemination of 15,000 children while we have 28 thousand abortions. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Well, that means saying for these 15 grand that they were born unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20247	Thank you. You're out of time. I would, however, before giving the re-reputed representative, Petyr, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, ask. Let's write down the exact quote, quote the quote, and then correct it. Let's not say something that isn't said because then it causes confusion and a fight between each other. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20248	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, it's incredibly simple. I don't know if my colleague Stazic is sitting here in his ears so he doesn't listen to what he's saying. I was talking about the abuses that were happening and these abuses led later to the realization that women had given birth to children who were not their own. I wasn't talking about medically assisted insemination that causes such feelings, but about the abuses that have been happening, and that's why I've stated that the existing law that's full of legal voids needs to be changed. But you're not listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20249	And I'd like to say which article is injured when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. And please don't make any corrections to the quote, and we'll turn the Rules of Procedure into a replica later on. The replica has no record of the club's representatives being presented. And now we have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20250	Says Mrs. Petir, this isn't the law for HSS. It is true that this is not a law for HSS, for HDZ, for SDP. You said it because I wrote it here. It's incorrect that this isn't the law for HSS... Mrs. Petrir said naturally, that children who are there are entitled to be born by natural means, denying this way as a natural path. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] Everything man created is also natural, ma'am. And I'll tell you more that you're wrong... This is said by the mother who had a mother who had a child in this way, unfortunately not in Croatia but in Austria. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20251	Thank you. You're out of time. We've got a breach of our rules of procedure again. No benching, please. Honorable representative Marijana Petir is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20252	Article 209, Vice President. In this orchestrated assault where it obviously doesn't want to be said and correct what they possibly think is incorrect. My colleague Ingrid mentioned that I said this law wasn't for HSS. My colleagues, Ingrid, I don't expect you in the SDP to write laws for HSS, nor do we think these laws would suit us in any way. I said that this law that you have proposed is not acceptable to the HSS and to the views that we have on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20253	Thank you. Please, it's no longer a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's go, the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Marin Jurjevic. I expect a proper correction from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20254	As always. So first I'm amazed by the atmosphere that's being created here. It's not exactly the quote of a fellow member of thepleir that, Petrir, if threatened, that the rights of the child would be compromised if this law were applied. Elemental logic says that someone's rights would be compromised, and so the rights of a child to that child should be alive before. First she needs to be born. And you're against letting these children be born. You made that clear here. ... Yeah, in a way like this, you're not about to be born like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And according to you, their rights are compromised if this law applies. No, ma'am! They're right, you don't even let them live and try to at least exercise their rights. And here you're talking about the quality of human beings which is, which is really monstrous. We want to go measure height, thickness Heads, feet, hands. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We know who did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20255	Thank you, thank you! Time's up. From the beginning, it was good, and then you polymized with an opinion. I'm so sorry. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. [[Intruder: Sir]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20256	Article 209 was injured because counterpart Jurjevic absolutely did not tell the truth. We at HSS are in favour of protecting the child from its conception. You're the one in the SDP who took the right to play God and determine that a child is not a child when it's conceived but determine the limits of 14 days or beyond. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20257	Thank you. Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20258	Dear colleague Petir said among other things that this law does not offer solutions. I don't want to discuss the views of my colleague, Petyr, who I mostly disagree with, but this quote is simply incorrect because this is a law for those couples who want to have children, and I can't have them. For medical reasons, solutions are offered. That's how many children were born in this country, including three of my closest families. It is therefore not true that this law does not offer solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20259	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if you see it. This was a correct correction to the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20260	Because I said this law does not offer solutions to the treatment of infertility. Because there is no solution to the treatment of infertility. When you use that method, you'll have a baby but you're still infertile. And your law is called the Infertility Treatment Act. [[Please, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20261	Please, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and please no, no, no. And the last correction to an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20262	Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting Miss Petrir's incorrect claim that we've made it possible for MPO's actions that people can own children. I don't think I own my child, my daughter Eva. Nor is my child different from the other children who are two years old. She's healthy, playful, she has a virosis when they have other kids. Just like her peers. It is unacceptable to distinguish between children just because medicine has allowed those who have problems and cannot have a child in the way you advocate it has made it possible for them to have children. I think it's unfair, it's unfair, and I'm grateful to everyone in medicine and I believe this law is necessary that allowed my Eva to be born. And it's no different than the others. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20263	Thank you. You're out of time. And yet again, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20264	Mr. Vice President, I just want to say that the injured Rules of Procedure, Article 209, because it's constantly interpreting what I said, I'd like my SDP colleagues to take a transcript and study what I said. I understand that this topic causes different and emotions and feelings, but it needs to be correct in interpreting or quoting someone's exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20265	Thank you. And we have, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20266	Well, dear Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry that my colleague Petyr started a debate like this that doesn't lead to anything. And it doesn't lead to a constructive solution, because there's nothing in what you've been saying that would be constructive and that would improve this bill. Your discussion was aimed at saying that there is nothing and that there is nothing to have but that we need to pass a law that we may at some point pass. And all of your discussion went to show that the law should be passed and unfortunately, Mrs. Petir, such a law from your discussion should be passed. When we talk about destroyed traps I'd like you to give me, I'm a doctor and I'm going to the thesis that everything has to be proven, prove where 280 thousand embryos or some number that's destroyed by a monster is gone. Ask all couples in Croatia who have submitted to this procedure and ask where their traps are? They were not destroyed, they were applied when necessary. It's one of the monstrous thesis that I hope you'll never use again. Another thing you're suggesting is that these kids are sick. You refer to "new science," it's an abstract from one convention. Medicine is Mrs. Petir's science. Professor Hebrang, who's based on evidence, will confirm it. The sentence "could" is not evidence. So you can't stegmatize these children that they're sick children because our people are like that. If you say those kids are sick, they'll say, "Look, they're sick kids. The Assembly should be careful of what is said and what is it referred to? When it comes to the age of a mother and a child, then you must know that 17 implementing acts should go with this law. And you know yourself that when the law does not define everything in the law and that there are 17 implementing acts that define standards and equipment, there's a facility where it's going to be done by psychological testing of couples, than if you've read a little better, then the law says that you should use the treatment options of other infertility methods, and only then come to biomedically assisted insemination. It's Mrs. Petir's medicine. Ask the experts before you answer like that. You are not a doctor, unfortunately, but you must. You're a biologist, right? Yeah. You know all about it, so I'm in one hand and I'm sorry that this is how you discussed it. I expected you to have a more modern and better discussion to help make this law even better and even more appropriate. When we talk about the plot, you're a biologist, so you know it's an expensive cell. We in law deliberately put to let you, in those cases when, and these are very rare cases when the traps were not used to let them die. We could have said we needed them in an appropriate way to destroy them. The cells are dying. At this point in your body and in my body, many cells die. Are we saying that these cells are life? No, they're not. Therefore, you cannot say that we play God with this law and determine who lives, who dies. This is the law that regulates this area. Because things haven't been regulated in this area, and that's why there's gonna be problems. You mentioned some problems, but there are even more. When we talk about the rights of the child, we agree that the rights of the child should be regulated and therefore serve a public debate. You didn't offer me, you didn't offer us a solution to tell that child and explain to him that it was a child conceived by artificial insemination, a biomedically assisted insemination. The right child should be protected. The children need to know and we are in the debate, if you listen well to me I said that in the debate we have come to the fact that the rights of the child must be realized and that the child should know how it came into this world. To determine motherhood and paternity there is no need for a simple legal reason what if you need to know that seed donors are mostly students, so people who are, this in the world is known to be the largest number of seed donors are students. It can happen in life that a student who donated seeds to a bank somewhere in his life one day becomes someone who's like Bill Gates, who has a huge fortune. Whether this student who has graciously donated his seed must then, must reprove his paternity, or must establish paternity, that someone conceived by this fertilization has the right to his inheritance. We must also protect those who, by their own good will, allow couples to reach our desired child. You yourself said that a child is most important and that this urge is one of the basic impulses of the human race and do not say that we are playing God. We don't play God, we want to solve things the way they are. And I would like this debate to be a ton much different than the tone you started and I ask that if we can return to what we can do to help citizens of the Republic of Croatia who cannot have children, that these children achieve in the legal frameworks on the burden of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute under our control, not to go to foreign countries and to make their desired child there.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20267	Thank you. I must say, however, Mrsic, that every representative has the right to speak here and that is the fundamental right of every representative to what he thinks, what he feels and how he knows it. This is not any professional symposium, where only doctors should talk about it. This is where the second dimension is given. It's a political dimension. And so I think that everyone here has the right to express their opinion and their political attitude and human attitude about this problem, and that way people should not be virtually limited to their discussion. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20268	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Mrsic has said a number of incorrect allegations. I understand his need for him here from the pay phone to say he's a doctor. I don't think that's very important and crucial for this debate. I think it's important to tell the truth and to support it with arguments. So, fellow Mrsic, if you had listened, then you would have heard that I had offered concrete solutions. I've been telling you exactly on the lines that your bill is not acceptable, which is not appropriate, and I've been offering you solutions on how to change that. I stressed that because of the existence of a legal void, it is precisely that there are various abuses which are evidence and the trial of the Kurjak, where women testify to their testimony about the number of embryos they have given, how many have been stored, how many have been destroyed. I didn't say and you're deliberately twisting it. I didn't say that children born with this method are sick. I said that research should monitor the health of these children and these mothers because research has shown the possibility of improvement, and women have been shown to cause malignant diseases with an increase in the number of attempts. I don't understand why you keep throwing this debate into politics because you have no arguments to defend what you wrote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20269	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20270	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna change my debate that I originally planned here in front of the club. I don't know if my clubmates are going to be angry about it, but I thought your colleagues and colleagues would suggest certain solutions to you, go by articles, that after the first reading, we would get a text that would be something better than this proposal. However, I think it is completely pointless in view of this course of debate. I wouldn't go back to the Middle Ages, but I'd go back 120 years. When the first train and the first car were constructed, these newly constructed structures moved at a speed of 15 to 20 km/h. And do you know what the conclusions of those who observed these machines were? The conclusion was that there will be disturbances in the work of the internal organs of those driving in such machines, so that genetic deformations of the human race will occur if we use these technical innovations. What do you and I today and what do you citizens think about such discussions today? They think it was notorious nonsense. My colleagues and colleagues, in ten years I assure you that those who read the phonogram from today's debate will feel the same way, that many things that have been said today are notorious nonsense. I followed the government's opinion carefully. I followed the opinion of our parent committee. The word they used most often is that the law was unspeakable. What colleagues and colleagues then say about the 30 - year - old law in one of the most dynamic areas of science, areas that change from day to day at a terrible rate. The law that regulates this matter in Croatia is thirty years old. I'm ashamed. I don't know if you're ashamed. I was looking forward to 2004 when the law was put on the bench, when we were hoping to get at least some solutions. The law ended up in a drawer. We didn't hear why. Obviously we don't deserve to hear why. I want to convince you as a scientist that a 30-year-old law obstructs the profession. It does not allow the application of the most common methods that our colleagues in other countries of Europe can normally do. We can't do them. Our couples must seek help in Slovenia and other countries. Wouldn't it make sense for our clinics to have couples from South-Eastern Europe knocking in our facilities and beyond? Wouldn't that make sense? Wouldn't that be nice? Doesn't it make sense that we're thinking that way? Obviously not. I am the second term in parliament, and I think I will never see the opposition propose a bill and the government says this is a good initiative, we suggest that the two teams that came up with this proposal and the government's team meet, work until the second reading on one excess law, get it as soon as possible, and that citizens benefit from it. I'm afraid I won't. That's ridiculous. This kind of work is really pointless. So if you'll excuse my colleagues from the SDP for not deciding to come up with some suggestions here. I think you've done a good job, an excellent initiative, and surely that's a good basis for us to continue this debate, especially until the second reading, to make a law and adopt it. Your proposal is not liberal, it's not liberal at all. You apply some basic options of cellular biology, you don't apply at all what molecular biology today offers and can solve, you put that part entirely on the side of thinking it would be too radical. I understand, but those methods will have to enter our legislation in five, ten, or fifteen years. This is one of the laws that must be in permanent reading. This is one of the laws that must be complemented every three, four years. I'm very pleased, you many of you weren't in the last term in these benches when we had the Law on genetically modified organisms on the benches. It was a very interesting debate but the debate ended in a way that we accepted, accepted that these methods, that technology, we must accept at least in some economic activities, in the pharmaceutical industry and some others, and I think we have made a big step. I'm afraid we haven't made a step here. I wouldn't argue much further because I don't think it really makes sense, but I'd like you colleagues to ask for something. Ignorance of matter is not enough reason to deny it and the Priors refuse it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20271	We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20272	Only counterpart Doric, the parliamentary majority or government and the parliamentary minority, is involved in co-operation. There was such a case in the Parliament at the time of the coalition government when an HSP proposal was adopted, the Law on Transfer of Authorities was drawn up in the co-operation of the opposition and then the Government of Ivica Racan but I agree, and on the conflict of interest, I fully agree with you, I share your belief that such a thing will not happen while HDZ is in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20273	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20274	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, I'll actually have someone say it before me. We also need this debate of consciousness, in fact, to lower the level of expert debate but also not entirely. It is necessary to respect the profession, to respect everything medicine has done so far in its progress and, of course, to discuss medically assisted fertilisation, especially in a situation where more than 38% of men are having fertility problems, when more than 15% of marriages or extramarital communities are being treated for infertility in such a demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia, where this bill also contributes to increasing the birth rate. And it should be recalled, and someone said that 30 years have passed since we still have a valid law, we cannot say our Croatian law, but it is the law of the former Yugoslavia. In 30 years, you know how much medicine and medical settings change. Five to six times, all medical knowledge has changed cyclically five to six times. And we're still handling a law that regulates this problem 30 years old. Eighty-three years, here I am now using that folk dictionary to keep it from me, but that's how everyone will understand me, absolutely everyone. So in 1983 the first child from the test tube here in, at the premises of Croatia seemed to me. In 1983, we were the seventh country in the world, and now I don't know who we are, but it seems to me that somewhere, somewhere in the beginning, we start. Why are we at the beginning? Is it because we don't have experts? Why don't we have gynecologists? What do we not have doctors who are able to carry out all the latest world medical achievements in our health institutions? Well, no, no, because our doctors are our experts able to do it professionally, professionally know it. There may not be enough financial resources to obtain all possible equipment and equipment such as in the world's most prestigious centres, but they are able to do and implement all those methods that modern medicine knows in terms of this medically assisted fertilisation. And I could now go by, I don't know, articles and then object or make suggestions from some level of expertise is not good at this, this is the wrong solution. Well, maybe in this article we should do it and do it like this, but I don't think that makes any sense. I think it's this one, I'm going back, we've got 30 years of law. We don't have a law that regulates this problem. We have someone who knows which times this pay phone is said very soon, in five days or in 10 days I think it's funny. I think that's funny especially when we had a bill in 2004 which apparently according to one general assessment was very, very good work material and a very good proposal. It's been four years. That proposal ended up in a drawer. Even more ironic is that we need this law to join the European Union with a view to harmonising the rules they are treating and talking about this issue. So the law is required. For four years, the law has been in the drawer. In the meantime, it is true, there are also judicial disputes over the manipulations in part of this issue and a government representative who, I'm sure, I'm sure that, as a doctor, agrees with this debate we've heard here about the need for legislation. The government's representative, however, disagrees with one who, when he says it is a complicated problem, is too complex a problem. He says that the law or bill of law has been unsettled and at the same time one good proposal of the law for four years lies somewhere in the drawer. This is a proposal that was submitted in June. I think that the proposer actually doesn't run away from everything that comes across the waist, which turns out in this debate to be an integral part of a quality final bill. But since June, when the proposal went to procedure, the government has been able to make a proposal. Why not? Well, the government could have given her intent and had her intention as you say in ten days' time to come up with a proposal. You said 10 days. So from June to now, you have had time to come up with a proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that treats this problem. Now you're saying you'll be out with a proposal in 10 days. Let me not believe that. But I will be happy if the Government comes out with a proposal that treats this problem and which finally puts it in the legal framework and in the legal framework of medically assisted fertilisation as it is said as quickly as possible, aware of, of course, and unfortunately that this bill will not be accepted by the majority in this Croatian Parliament but unfortunately that from the Government of the Republic of Croatia probably for a long time, we will not have this high-quality law on medically assisted insemination for much longer. I say again, I'm surprised because we have a 30-year-old law. I'm surprised that the law that speaks and puts this issue into the legal framework has been lying around for four years and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this is the 5th year term that did not remove this proposal from the drawer, updated here in the Croatian Parliament. Finally, I would like to say that, in any case, it is commendable that this SDP initiative as a proposing that this legal issue is finally resolved, but I also hope that most, although I expect the majority in the Croatian Parliament, will not accept this proposal. Here I appeal that until the second reading, and in the second reading of this bill, perhaps until the second reading, the Government of the Republic of Croatia would propose its own solutions, and then in the interest of a united discussion, and in the interest of the problem that we are talking about today, one such law on medically assisted insemination in one consensus in the interest of both demographic and in the interest of reducing those waiting lists and finally in the interest of preventing abuses and allowing those women, those men in the married and out-of-marriage community who can't have children to take advantage of everything modern medicine that modern science can give, which is a child. So to exploit the opportunities that the Republic of Croatia has in its experts, in its doctors and finally in its modern medical science capabilities. The HDSB Club will support this bill because we think this is a good initiative and it is finally that this initiative and if it will not be accepted by the majority in this Croatian Parliament but will contribute to the fact that, as soon as possible, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes its Law on Medical Aided Insemination which will resolve much of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20275	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 11 o'clock and 8 minutes. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20276	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. If it were a very sensitive matter, we can also see from the temperamentary I would say the dynamic debate that was triggered by this SDP club's bill of law. Why is the debate on this topic, on the subject of assisted insemination, I support my colleague Mrsic that we are not talking about artificial insemination, because these egg cells and these male sex cells are not artificial, they are natural. The procedure was medically assisted, not artificial. So it's a really good suggestion, to talk about medically assisted insemination. Why is this problem so classy? Because it enters the right of married and single couples to have offspring, to have children's rights, a whole series of children's rights, but it also enters the medical profession, it enters the legal profession, it penetrates the political worldview, it enters the traditional world horizons. That's why in all countries these discussions were very dynamic, so here's the order for us to pass through that fate. We at the club, above all, believe that this proposal is welcome precisely because it triggered a debate that really needs to be discussed, and although I must say right away, we will not support what I will explain by the articles and say for what reasons. There are good solutions to this proposal immediately. This proposal goes through a medium path that is realistic for our environment and regardless of what has been said here that the position has never been accepted or very rarely what counterpart Stazic says one example, the position has accepted the opposition's proposal I am sure that in this legislation, the legislator who is preparing the new law, or who has already completed it, will find good solutions. What we should say here is that we have, we are aware of the weight of this task, I can say it myself, because for over 20 years I have participated in a team that has diagnosed infertility of men and women. I've had opportunities to personally see that sadness and not just grief, I'd say a psychological condition that's negative for multiple dimensions in those couples that can't have children. It is such a deep feeling that no one who alone did not have or who did not cooperate closely with these people can truly understand. So it's clear to me that we need to regulate it as soon as possible, and I hope that it will be and that this proposal will be one thread that will contribute to it. Why is the problem important? Because the probability of the conception of a couple not using contraception during the first month is that only 15 to 20% will occur in conception. The probability of three months is only 30%. In 6 months, 70%, and in one year, 85%. The 15% that within a year cannot achieve conception is very unlikely to ever achieve it. This law or similar laws must therefore concern as much as 15% of the population. Calculate how many people there are in the Republic of Croatia or beyond. However, I do not think that this law, which is before us, solves everything that needs to be solved. First of all, it does not solve the subject matter first, and unfortunately there were both us and the world. It does not address in administrative terms sufficient security for both donors and users of assisted fertilisation and, of course, the most for the newborn child. As far as formal remarks are concerned, we have a lot, but I think it is understandable, because one group can of course not make one such technical and formal enough quality law as can be a state administration that has all the necessary and staff and financial resources, so of course it can make much wider and more. So one of my remarks is that there are not enough sublegal acts in this law to which the law would oblige the Registrar, which would solve all of this which we can actually talk about as controversial solutions. It has already been said that the very name that says it is about treating infertility is actually not happy, because in fact infertility remains. We didn't cure her. We didn't stop her. We just corrected her unwanted and negative consequences. Therefore, the name of the law should be harmonised, which is not relevant, but should also give much more importance in the text to prevent fertility and of course much more accessibility and diagnostic and therapeutic procedures before they go into assisted fertilisation. Well, here's a few more remarks that could and would have to be corrected in a new law that the government will propose. One of the definitions is that a woman must be of age which is suitable for the birth of a child. Here I agree with my colleague, Petir, that this should be defined more precisely not by age, but at least by all factors biological and sociological which must be met and not only by women, but also by men to be entitled to medically assisted insemination. It should also certainly be established that a central institution that will keep both records and monitors and propose improvements cannot legally be in an establishment dealing with fertilisation itself. I believe you'll agree as proposing. This should indeed be one independent under the ministry and under the authority of the ministry of agencies in which experts would cooperate, but that would not carry out fertilisation procedures alone, because it cannot be objective enough. Also, in the expert body referred to in Article 12, I believe that it should be more precise to define which members of that expert body according to their profession and their work experience. These are, of course, the specialists who are listed here. But in the case of a social worker, I think you should be a graduate social worker, I'm sorry, I've had a bit of a cold, and the one who has experience with such people is the same as a graduate lawyer. There can be no one but a really graduate lawyer who deals with this problem because it definitely needs specialization as well as our doctor. What we could still object to here is a national commission that would oversee the whole process and organise medically assisted fertilisation, a purely technical commission, as proposed in Article 20, decides most of the votes. So, it should provide an odd number of members in that commission. In the current combination, that number could be even because one point is variable. It's the one that says one expert from every medical facility that deals with medically assisted fertilization. So, if that number were such an institution, so would the members of the commission to be even, then there is no way to take the final provision into account, which is that the national commission decides by majority of the votes of all the members because it could also be divided into even numbers. So that should be technically harmonised. I also believe that the right to propose the experts referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, which determines the members of the commission, have the appropriate colleges. This may apply to some members but certainly cannot be said that the university will appoint a member of the Head of the Office for Human Rights or, for example, a member of the commission who is a representative of the users of the proceedings, the very process of assisted insemination. Therefore, there should be more precise and say which members and these will exclusively be experts proposing a particular college which members propose to other stakeholders in this complex process. In particular, the content and formal need to be indicated here so included, but perhaps not the happiest solution is the permission for research work and it is one of the most difficult ethical issues in this process as far as we can enter the research work of a fertilized egg cell and under what conditions. It's an eternal question. As you know in the world, there's a lot of controversy about it. Such work is allowed here under the conditions laid down in Article 38 but also in Article 33, we see in one place where research work is prohibited. So there's been some kind of contradiction. Therefore, Article 33 says: "It is forbidden to allow the creation of a cover for research purposes in the process.". And that might be the topic that we should sit on together and coordinate our views and see how we're going to include that thing in the new law to avoid then the big subsequent discussions that we would have before and not after the bill was passed. One of our objections is also in Article 32, which states that one procedure is not allowed to introduce more than three embryos into the body of a woman. Most European countries recommend that the number be reduced to two. It should also be complemented here and with the number of attempts of assisted fertilisation that can be authorised not for financial reasons but for medical reasons. In fact, there is a certain increase in the risk of too many of these attempts and this should be taken into account and included in the law. Of course, I don't mean financial reasons at all, but they really should be there, and I won't say irrelevant but at least side-by-side. What might also need to be changed and treated differently are also criminal provisions. I'll say something only about them. Penalties are probably in line here by criminal law experts, but I think they're absolutely too low the penalties that range between seven and ten thousand kunas for those who work against this law, so for responsible persons. 7 thousand kuna, it is a thousand euros to recalculate into the European language is absolutely too little if someone breaks, for example, the procedure for replacement motherhood, or, for example, to go into the process without special approval or without the consent of the professional advisory body, or to allow the donation of sex cells among relatives, etc., all that the law well regulates if the responsible person in the institution does not pay 7 to 10 thousand kuna. I personally think that this is too little and that these penalties should be warning not to repeat the unloved situation of our recent past. There are laws and technical or maybe let's say purely bureaucratic indiscretions. For example, it's said with a fine of up to 10 grand and then again by the words of thousands of kunas. It's probably a press mistake. It should be accurate 10 thousand, thousands of kunas would actually be 10 million kuna, which, of course, the proposer certainly did not mean, but probably in the copying of the law in Article 43, there was such a mistake. It is also necessary to be careful when determining the criminal measures to which the article applies. This can be later in practice can cause great doubt and problems. For example, it is said here in Article 43 that this time I consider a fine of 100 to 150 thousand kuna to be fined by a legal person who, contrary to paragraph 1 of Article 15 of this Law, will carry out proceedings without special approval. However, Article 15(1) does not speak of this, but of Article 15(2). We need to be precise because if certain legal problems arise, then such a single provision can mean a release from the responsibility of the one who committed no offense but a criminal offence. Therefore, the final remarks we have made are certainly also a suggestion to the legislator for the new law but also to encourage the present proposing to insist on the public debate they have caused and we believe that the new law that will propose the ministry will avoid all of these, not all but most of these negativitys that can arise from this and, above all, taking into account the rights of the child, the right to parenting but also the right of everyone to have a position in this opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20277	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20278	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. First, I would like to thank Mr Hebrang for his constructive discussion and we expect such a debate. And the things he said and we sign. What I would like to say at the beginning is that this law does not affect the rights but enables citizens of the Republic of Croatia to exercise their right to motherhood. What we don't regulate with this law, which is the rights of that unborn child, and that needs to be defined and we totally agree. And it was in the debate and it was, and it was one of the major disputes in the debate was that the rights of that child that was initiated by this procedure should be defined and that this child should know how it came into the world. Naturally, when we wrote this law that we didn't, we proposed another seventeen sublegal acts that go along with this to define members of the National Committee for Biomedical Aided Fertilization where to define which representative of the religious community, which religious communities? Do the largest or are they chosen from some or ethical committees? We would also define ourselves by sublegal acts that must meet the criteria of the Centre for Biomedical Supported Insemination and we fully agree that there is no happiness but that, by any chance, this law would not have been missed in the second reading, we agree that the register should be in the Ministry of Health and Social Care for the reasons that Mr Hrbrang stated and that we fully agree. And as far as Article 33 is concerned, it is defined that not only a reference for research purposes should be created, but in those families that started a biomedically assisted fertilisation where there are no embryos left that will not be used because the family has concluded that they will no longer have children but as much as they have concluded that they can handle financially means that they can bring these children to the university and that, then bring them into life, then these traps can be used for research purposes. So there's no creation, that's what we forbade Article 33 that there's no trapping only for research purposes and this is one way to allow Croatian medicine, we swear to Ireland, we swear on an Irish model. Croatia with its medicine can be a very good export product we just have to allow things that are done in Croatia in the world to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20279	Thank you. That's how we exhausted the club debate. We move to an individual debate and is the first respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20280	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So far, the debate on this bill has asked me to myself and ask all of us three questions to begin with. This law is inconclusive, and the 30-year-old law is good for Croatian opportunities today. I simply don't believe that the existing law is better, so in one single and smallest part of what is proposed in this law. Another dilemma, if this law does not mean that we do not have problems in Croatia with a disease called infertility? According to the data presented in the discussions so far, if I remember correctly about 15 thousand children born in this way, it is clear that Croatia has a problem. Either the rejection of this proposal, but also the fact that for 4 years the law which was on the agenda has not come to another reading and there is still no government can suggest that there will be no new bill or that the biomedical aided fertilisation in Croatia will not be regulated by the new law. It was also said in the context of the debate and in the context of the application of this method that this is playing God. I must remind you that both organ transplants and organ donations were not so long ago a controversial topic and caused great debates and that I hope that no one today will claim that organ transplants from any moral or ethical principle are questionable. There is abuse, so just to prevent or reduce abuse to a minimum, we need a new and modern law, although in the opinion of the majority of this text, it is not all right to play a second reading to create formal conditions for the second reading or for the second reading of the law to be completed. Infertility is a disease, and the promoter provided information that about 15% of couples in Croatia have problems with this disease. Croatian science, health care has knowledge, abilities and conditions to implement biomedical assisted fertilisation and is obviously the only limiting element for their work and further development of the legislative framework. I must remind you that in the Croatian social services there are about 5,000 requests or offers for adoption of children waiting for years to find children who could adopt. I remind you that the number of newborn children in Croatia is about 40,000, and when that number of newborn children came to 41 thousand 500 years ago, we declared it a baby boom because it was a huge growth of 1,000 newborn children in one year. What would it mean for the birthright in Croatia if, by applying new regulations, new knowledge and achievements of science, the number of newborn children would only be increased by a thousand because of this method? I remind and repeat only 40,000 children in Croatia are born, and this law gives hope of being able or exit to increase the number of newborn children by at least 1000. All the measures that the government has provided in parliament so far have been to stimulate the birth of a third, fourth and fifth children. But Croatia has a problem with the first child. And this law offers a solution for a part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who wants this first child but for medical reasons cannot have it. In my view, the law clearly and precisely regulates the conditions and procedures of this method, prohibits biomedical aid with donated at the same time and egg and seed cells which I personally welcome and prohibits replacement motherhood which is important to note because it was precisely one of the issues in the public back months, two that denied the very idea that the law of the new law in Croatia regulates it. Some say we need to talk, but in Croatia we have been having these talks for years, and now that an excessive bill has come up, let's go against it and say we should continue the talks. I think that the talks were very much and that the best contribution to this bill is to discuss the proposal and I share one infidelity and doubt that in ten days we will get the Government's bill for this area. If the Government's bill of law is going to be very similar to this, then I would ask the Secretary of State, on behalf of the Government, to give the opinion that this law is also going into second reading so that the SDP and the Government's team come before us with complete and common solutions, and formally and legally it is possible only if this law is released into another reading. Given that the profession and science in Croatia has warned the Parliament that we need to pass a new law not only because of the further development of this activity, but also because of the prevention of possible abuses, but also because Croatia really needs help for citizens who have a problem with infertility, I will support this bill in a small hope that there will be at least until the end of the term this government will come then and with its proposal. Because apparently whatever is proposed without the government's proposal has no hope of being accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20281	Thank you. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20282	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Nothing can stop the desire for motherhood, and when a woman decides to give birth to nothing, she will not stop and neither will the Croatian government. She'll go far. She won't find it expensive, no matter how much she spends. Even so, when a woman decides she will not give birth, there is also no law to prevent her from doing so. And that society, that authority that denies it is essentially distanced from the truth and sticks its head into the sand. In fact, I am not surprised that this bill, because it is everywhere, in Europe and in the world, causes a lot of negligentness, causes different interpretations of philosophical, ethical, bioethical. And it's perfectly normal when it comes to a bill like this that wants to help create a new life. And that doesn't concern us here at the SDP club. But on this occasion, I'd like to say that we're worried about how lightly we agree and keep quiet about how life goes away. So to kill, and kill each other out of hatred, then we're not so loud, then there's no ethical commissions, but only when those deaths get close to us are they cause a reaction from the state and society. So here we appeal to the culture of life versus the culture of death. Why does the government insist on rejecting this bill? It's not the first time it's a woman's body. It's about the first time a woman has a part of her body, an egg cell. There are also large bioethical commissions again. And why is that? Because throughout history almost every government has always understood the female body to demonstrate its political power over it. Because when it was made possible for men 30 years ago and regardless of their liberality, this was not the issue when it was made possible for men to have part of their bodies. That's when the church didn't answer. It was 30 years ago. We weren't much more advanced then today. But now that this law wants to introduce and make available, then simply to the cellular level to enable constitutional equality that is guaranteed in exactly that way for a man and woman to suddenly become questionable. But it is questionable from the point of view of the constitutionality and equality of men and women unless such a bill is passed. There will be an interesting reaction to the Constitutional Court. You see, almost 25 years ago at the Zagreb Hospital for Women's Diseases and Births in Petrovo, Robert Veriga was born the first Croatian child from the test tube. Professor Velimir Šimunić, who then led a team of enthusiasts from Petrova, says: “It was then an attraction especially because we were able to help a couple who could not have children.” There is no negligible fact that we were the seventh country in the world to which it succeeded and the fourth in Europe. From this time onward, more than 6,000 children were born in Croatia with an extra-body fertilization. Other methods that have also helped fertilisation have given birth to about 8,000 children. It is certainly one important and valuable method, but also the number of children is not negligible, especially when the white plague is over Croatia, when the World Health Organization predicts that the number of Croats will be halved in less than 50 years. When the World Health Organization warns that infertility is a disease that each government is obliged to treat, that is, to enable its citizens to treat such a disease, or infertility. That's when we were at the top not only thanks to the means, but primarily to the extraordinary experts. These experts are still no smaller experts today, but they are almost out of work. The sperm banks are almost closed. So what was done in a much larger number 20 years ago, 30 years ago today is dead. So whose responsibility is that? And these are serious things to give an answer to. Simply today in Croatia there is much less, somewhere around 1500 to 1800 procedures a year. There's no funds. Even some doctors who are aware that HZZO is such a means to stimulate ovulation, so that the mildest form of assisted fertilization doctors are now aware that there are no means and that this has been transferred to primary health care to point out that they cannot issue this medicine, and then such women go from unloved to unloved until they are bored. They go to Slovenia, go to the Czech Republic, Ukraine, Slovakia, many transition countries, and thus create new Croatian citizens for whom Minister Primorac has time to explore their origins. So it would be interesting to see for 30 years when a new minister who does the same, has a desire to essentially explore the genetic origin of Croats, so he will find that it is very similar to Ukrainian if he is objective or Czech, that they almost have the same or similar genome. What is happening in the area of assisted fertilisation in Croatia in recent years? It's being destroyed systematically by lawlessness, an affair, and crime. But why is that and who's responsible for it? Well, power because there's no law. Now we have heard many very interesting complaints here that if the law is passed that he could be broken. It's a very new way of suppressing illegal operations. So let's break the law and then there'll be less abuse. It is a new patent in the legal mind to improve the rule of law in Croatia. Or who does that suit? What woman is certain to go to one benign and harmless examination without someone stealing her egg? We've heard here from the Secretary of State that this proposal doesn't contain or has been stolen and has disappeared somewhere in the register of assisted insemination and therefore we don't need to have a law. Very interesting interpretation. And what about that law? I've heard on the means of public communication from Mr. Secretary of State who keeps saying that ten days, those ten days are gone somewhere, and he keeps saying that within ten days, the government will come out with a proposal. Four years have passed since that last proposal that was a great proposal. Here, in this way, the SDP wants to update this burning question for several reasons. First of all, couples and so many 200,000 people need these kind of procedures. The growing number of young couples is infertile, the growing number of men is infertile. 20 to 30% more than 40 or 50 years ago. Of course the causes are different, but the consequences are there. So let's not be blind to healthy eyes. This is something that Croatia really needs, which its citizens need. This year we also mark the 40th anniversary of the Human Rita encyclica, which talks primarily about responsible parenting. It's not just an act of passion, it's primarily an act of love and responsibility but it doesn't necessarily have to be related to sexual acts. And it's all natural, but it's not natural violence, it can't be natural rape, it can't be natural to kill other people. It's unnatural, and we have to stand up to it. We celebrate the culture of life on according to culture death. Condemn death and celebrate life and... Let's vote for this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20283	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, the State Secretary, the Honorable Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20284	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. During today's debate on this proposal, the government of the Republic of Croatia has been constantly trying to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support this proposal because it is SDP's proposal, because it is from someone else. I have to make clear here what I said in the opening statement. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is unable to support this bill at all for reasons which are now specifically elaborated, which is why this legislative proposal and we stand firm behind it does not regulate the area of medically assisted insemination in the way it should be arranged. I'll take the turn to prove this isn't just a speech on the political side. Therefore, already in the introduction of the bill, it says that the assessment of the necessary means for the implementation of the law will not require the provision of resources in the state budget and then raises the question of where the funds will be provided for the management of the registers, the work of the commissions and all other activities that follow the implementation of this law and the supervision of the implementation of this law. Also, when we stated that in our title of the Law on the Treatment of Infertility and Infertility Procedures with Biomedical Aid, we said that, for example, Article 3 of treatment under this law is to determine the cause of infertility. I'm sorry, the cause-finding isn't treatment, it's diagnostics by all definitions. This law makes a certain confusion that diagnostics are becoming treatment today. Or, establishing fertility reduction and removing causes by professional counselling, that part can already go, by medication or surgery. And it's the only place where infertility treatment is mentioned. Let's just say that there are provisions in this law that could be analysed right now, and I don't have enough time. We have already analyzed this through the boards of the Croatian Parliament, but practically every article in the law has an observation which makes the legal proposal as it could not be accepted even in the first reading so that it goes to the completion of the proposal because, for example, here is an article of the 29th sex station of one donor and one donor can be used for medically assisted insemination until the child is born for a maximum of two families. Now the question is, what's indiscretion? Uncertainty is the relationship between children born in such a way. We solved the donor issue, we resolved the question of his responsibility as a father or mother but we did not resolve the question of a brother or sister in a procedure like this and all the other issues that are being opened here. Therefore, this is evidence, so this means several examples and if it is considered necessary to prove to the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not against this proposal because who is the author of the proposal but because the proposal is so messy that it is smarter to come out with a proposal as the Government has announced, as the minister announced at the beginning of the year, that it will come out with such a proposal at the end of the year. And what I said here, I didn't say that the Croatian Parliament will be out in ten days, but that the proposal will come out within ten days in public debate and that is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot support such a legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20285	Thank you. On behalf of the proposing representative, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20286	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The secretary of state started the discussion we heard on all the boards, so we heard it now. I was hoping it would be something more inventive than all that. Article 3 clearly defines that the treatment of infertility, infertility is a disease and that it should be treated and treated, under the term of treatment implies also diagnosis because diagnostics are also part of the treatment. As for Article 29, which speaks of the birth of a child for up to two families from the donated seed and the donor egg cell. This article is not at all disputed because the rest is regulated by the register because the register and there is for the register to define who the egg cells are given, which child was born from which family. That is why there is a unique register that is currently missing in Croatia and there is a possibility in Croatia such as a major dispute now in, say, Western countries such as Germany or America where these registers are not run, so it is possible that in life the brother and sister fall in love and enter into the marriage community. This law makes it impossible to do so because there is a register. So the register is the one that solves the question of who was given the egg cell and in which families the child was born. Therefore, it does not stand, does not stand the objection of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20287	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is a SDP proposal, but who needs this law? SDP? No, I don't. This law needs infertile couples. They need help getting to the child they want. The question is, can they be helped? You got it. Medicine knows the methods. These methods apply in the world, in Europe, in our neighbouring countries. And now it's just a question of whether we in our own country want to help these infertile couples or not? That's the basic question. Will infertile couples achieve their goal of reaching the desired child? Well, they will. If I can't do it in Croatia they'll do it elsewhere. In Slovenia, Austria, Czech Republic. Will it be more complicated or simpler for them than in Croatia? Well, it'll be more complicated for them. They have to travel, they have to be exposed to costs. They have to end up paying for that procedure there. This law suggests I can do it for free in my country. So they're going to have to leave right now to say one of the more residual environments in some more advanced environment to solve their problem. Well, this law wants to make that other environment more advanced. He wants to meet a growing number of couples who unfortunately cannot achieve offspring without medical help. That law therefore needs to be made possible. And now what we hear from the government's representatives and what it says in the government's opinion that the government doesn't want it. She refuses this law. Why can we now conclude that the Government does not want to do so despite the State Secretary’s announcements? So we can come to that conclusion because this government has been acting in continuity for 5 years. I'm surprised the Secretary of State didn't attack Racan's government because he doesn't have this law because it's a permanent mantra. But five years was enough time to get this area... At the end when this law was sent into procedure and that was in June so it should have been an incentive for the government to come out this moment with its bill of law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The minister obviously doesn't do that. He is currently dealing more with how pensioners take money for health insurance than with how to help citizens and infertile couples. Medically assisted fertilisation is not something unknown in Croatia. It has been applied in one way or another for 25 years. Fifteen thousand children were born to this day with a medically assisted fertilization. It does not apply, may not apply all the methods known to medicine and which have introduced other countries' legislation as standards. It doesn't apply to us. The secretary of state says we're entering a borderless area. So look at one law being passed and just to set the limits. If it's a borderless area now, then it takes a law to set those limits. We can talk about whether these borders are too wide or too narrowly laid out in this bill but we can't tell because it's a completely illogical area is unregulated, so we don't need a law that's unsettled. Mrs. Petyr was talking about manipulations here. Well, manipulations are possible if you don't have the law. If you pass the law, there will be no manipulation, or they will be sanctioned. So instead of preventing manipulation, getting order into this area and helping infertile couples, we're doing exactly the opposite. We don't pass laws, we allow manipulations, and we don't help infertile couples. This law was written with the cooperation of the profession. The secretary of state says: "The government will prepare a better and smarter law." He will have to do it again with the cooperation of the profession. What experts? Well, those same ones. Well, we don't have two million in Croatia. He'll have to consult the same people he consulted and the SDP. What are the same people gonna tell you? So what they said to SDP when he was preparing the law. What else? So he's not gonna tell government anything for 15 years? The secretary of state says: "There is no reason to reject this law as proposed by the SDP." I do not believe the secretary of state. Accept this in your first reading, come out with your bill. And so you say you intend to do it at the most recent time, so we'll discuss both legal texts here, compare them, choose the best from each other, and we'll get quite certainly quality law. This would be done by one who in good faith has access to this problem and who cares about the interests of citizens, to the interests of infertile couples and not to reject opposition proposals even when they are good. Discussing this legislative proposal in detail doesn't make any sense now because the clubs have spoken out, so we see then the HDZ Club and the coalition partners don't want to miss this legislative proposal in the second reading, so it's pointless then to discuss all the details of this law, this proposal. We are, of course, not only having an expert discussion here, but rather having a political debate, and there are doubts in this political debate. First, do you even allow medically assisted insemination. From the scene of the HSS club, we can see it's questionable. The representative of the HSS club has a lot of objections in general on medically assisted fertilisation. It also finds a lot of grudges. Among other things, those children can get better. Who are naturally conceived children can't get better. Well, of course she can. Is that why we're gonna make it impossible for someone to have a baby or not? So this topic can be talked about politically early medievally, can be spoken in a modern way, can be spoken in the interest or against the interest of infertile couples. Given the position of the HSS as a coalition partner, I personally doubt the government will come up with a bill, because I don't know how it will solve it within its own coalition if the HSS club is so radically against medically assisted insemination. To speak politically means to solve some possible doubts, ethically, that can be reported under this law. For example, it's a question of a substitute mother, a surrogate mother, which this law has solved. And what someone said isn't too liberal either. Many countries in the world are more liberal than that, allowing surrogate mothers. It's clearly said here, and it's in accordance with our Family Law. The mother of the child is the one who gave birth to him. These are major challenges that can occur here ethically. But if they're solved, if we've discussed them here now, if we've taken our views, then I don't see any reason but politically not to let this bill go to another reading and not discuss it together. At the same time, it would be the government's obligation to send its draft legislation until the second reading of this law, and then finally in Croatia we would have a regulated area, a legally regulated area which is not now and should be. Therefore, I call on the government to reconsider this position in relation to the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20289	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20290	I thank Mr. Vice President and I really apologize to the public and to all of you here that a man has to do it over and over again and it becomes a painful correction of incorrect allegations, but this one simply has to be corrected. counterpart Stazic said the minister is not dealing with this important issue, but is now dealing with how to take pensioners, pensioners' money. So that's one thing I wouldn't say even incorrectly, it's actually a naughty one claim that doesn't derogate a certain way and this exposure that you're talking about and actually puts it in a certain way in a position of irrelevant matter. So if one thing is very serious and is being implemented by the minister, which is a health system reform in order to ensure that health care is provided to those who are most in need, and these are pensioners, because they need most and need not know health tests, etc. So, if it does and you call it that, then how can we believe that you are truly in favour of this law, so also of this matter that is really important and that we need to talk seriously about?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20291	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the same allegation is truly amazing that in this way fellow Stazic incorrectly claims that the minister is not dealing with this problem, but rather dealing with how he will take money from the pensioners. It’s simply not that it’s not true and not only bad, but it’s totally malicious and obviously trying to draw attention to other things. And this minister deals with how to put the system, the health system on its feet, unlike you fellow Stazic. We won't end our health homes like you did. We're not doing that. Remember what you did in your SDP mandate. You've abolished your health homes. Yeah, you're laughing. That's funny to you now. Obviously, you don't know what happened to you in Croatia, but you just followed what's going on around you in the SDP. If you were careful then you would know that you have abolished 22 homes of health throughout Croatia and you are laughing at that fact today. Indeed, I think he speaks enough of your behavior about yourself and what you've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20293	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20294	According to Article 209 of the Vice President, I would ask you to apply the same criteria to all MPs when it comes to correcting the incorrect allegations. And the fact that the SDP abolished health care homes is also a non-sensual thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20295	Today, there have been such expressions before, and then there are certainly throws and laughs from each other's benches. We all stick to the order, so there won't be any need to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20296	Mr. Vice President, Articles 209 and 214 have been injured because something has happened, and a colleague, Stazic, has happened. You obviously do not live in Croatia, that you have abolished your health homes, it happened, that fact happened precisely during the time of the SDP, during the rule of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20297	What's the injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20298	Therefore, 214. you insult here in the Croatian Parliament and talk about something stupid and non-sensual about what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20299	Thank you. Without, I don't think there's any reason for us to sharpen this debate in such a way, so let's move on to correcting the incorrect allegations of the distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20300	Dear Mr. Vice President, my colleague Stazic, of course, said several incorrect allegations according to his good practice. One of them is that the HSS Representatives' Club opposes the adoption of laws that would regulate this area. It's a lie. We are opposed to the law proposed by the SDP's Club of Representatives, and if a reasonable and ethically acceptable solution is found, of course, that we will accept it, because we believe that this law that is now in force has become obsolete and has a lot of legal voids. The SDP bill we are discussing today does not offer solutions even for what they have put in the very name of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20301	Thank you. An example of a good correction of an incorrect quote. And now we have one replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin. I've been waiting for him to pick up. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20302	Well, I'd agree with my colleague Stazic if he hadn't actually opened this law so professionally, so if you'd like to even ask me a political question or a debate. It seems to me that we, by this law, are fellow Stazic within the ideological framework. And now you have one situation. Croatia has a problem with the most innovative policy or population policy. On the one hand, you have that we all advocate that as many young people or children are born in Croatia as possible, while at the same time we will not accept one bill that should contribute to this innovative policy with a number of other measures. And actually, we're just spinning around in circles. And I think in this situation it doesn't matter at all what the minister and what the minister is dealing with, but actually what they think is the mass of people who can't, unfortunately, naturally call him that through or without medical help, have children, and they should be taken care of. And I don't share your belief that we or we will not get a bill from the government given the position of the HSS. We'll probably get that bill of law just a question is when. Maybe I don't know in a 20-year term if this government is here. But why do I think that? For the simple reason that the current government is in a number of situations, or in a number of parts of the agreement, the coalition agreement has actually gone a certain way past the hss's attitude and desire, so if in this part of the case, the government will do the same no matter what HSS thinks.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20303	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20304	You tell your colleague, Lucin, that this law comes first, to the surface, with ideological differences. I wouldn't say these are ideological differences. These are primarily differences in forward or backward attitudes towards this problem. It's not as much a matter of ideology as it is of a relationship to development. You're also saying that I can't agree with my colleague Lucin that it doesn't matter what the minister does. Well, it's important what the minister does. So it doesn't matter. Well, the fate of all citizens depends on what the minister does. If we say the minister is involved in taking money from the pensioners, then so is his coalition partner. That is why he threatens to break the coalition regardless of what counterpart Matusic is trying to disprove it. It's just a fact. The minister deals with how to take the pensioners' money, so now everyone can object against such a statement but it's simply true, it's simply correct. That's what the representatives of the Croatian pensioners' party think, and I guess that's why they're threatening the collapse of the coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20305	It's an example of exploiting the replica institute within the club and not holding the topic we're discussing here. Let's move on. Dear Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20306	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, there is indeed one bill before us, which I think is very important. Here and in the discussion of clubs and individually I think three important things have been crystallized. First, we have a law that's 30 years old and needs to be changed. The second is that, after all, the SDP club has made a real effort to propose one bill and we also have the opinion of the Secretary of State who says the government is working... And what is not less important is all the happiness that government's bill of law is made by experts and people of the profession without the work of Lucin or by God Stazic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think the law that comes out will be extremely good. And now I would say that the natural growth of the population has been recording negative trends for many years, despite all the best measures and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and many units of local and regional self-government. Now let's see what are the most common reasons for the fall of birth in almost all developed countries of the world, it's not just the case in the Republic of Croatia. A growing number of young people are deciding on marriage and family union. So we see that the institution of the family is increasingly minor. Children are no longer wealth, children are a burden, a commercial society, materialism takes us there now to recalculate how much the child will cost us in the future. Also in Croatia, one phenomenon that we have not talked about here today, of course, because the law is not about it, but a large number of bachelors in rural areas who are probably not going to get married, which we are not going to help in this way either, but it is also very important that what is a factor and for today's bill, infertile marriages, infertile communities, an extramarital community. And so we heard today from the debate almost 15% or marriages or extramarital communities are infertile. Namely, and it is also known that with age age it relatively declines... The ability of a woman. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So women of 27 years of age have a potential for fertilisation of almost 30% in healthy women, their potential for insemination is 30% and at the age of 37, that possibility is only 8%, so women who are not sterile, infertile. A growing number of women decide on their first pregnancy only in their late 30 ’ s and from that point on, a number of infertile marriages and extramarital communities. Now that's the most common cause of infertility in women, that's what we haven't talked about here today. It's a preventive program for young girls, for young women. The most common cause of infertility is the infection of clamydia, which in most cases goes asymptomatic and the consequences are salpingitis and constipation... which leads to a sterile treatment that we haven't talked about in many ways today if possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, when we wear out and all the treatment options of infertility remain truly medically assisted insemination. And today it is very often said here and I will repeat that this medically assisted fertilization can be abused and we have all been witnesses of the theft of egg cells and it happened at the time of the last government and this one, and it has a judicial epilogue where almost the most invaluable professor from that area has been accused of stealing egg cells and a criminal procedure is being conducted. And I have to say that I absolutely advocate the adoption of a comprehensive law on this issue, and this bill that indeed has good things written in it, but there are many ethical and professional shortcomings and moral doubts. Now, as a doctor and a humanist here in my debate, I will only limit myself to the ethical dilemmas found in this bill, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will remove all these dilemmas. Thus, in Article 5, which speaks of users’ right to the medically assisted fertilisation procedure in paragraph 2, says that the right can be consumed by spouses and extramarital partners who do not have infertility problems in the event of the prevention or transfer of inherited diseases related to... I absolutely agree with that, but that's where we have to keep in mind and determine what diseases they are so that there can be no abuse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Indeed, who is the author of this article must take care of it and specify exactly what diseases are they? Abuse or family heirlooms are very high, so I hope the intensity wasn't that we were just going to create super-healthy children. Either in Article 6(3), which says, "A woman must be of natural age, which is suitable for the birth of children." And here today, the promoter said it's about 43 years old, and that's important that we determine in the law because we see and the pregnancy can be in both the 60th and the 65th and the 70th, if it appears more than once, it's no longer a medical exception, but it becomes a rule. So we really need to take care of that. In chapter 3, which speaks of the donation of sex cells, Article 11(2) says that egg - cell donors and a seed - cell donor can only give cells to one health care facility. I don't think that's a good formula, that we have to run a single state registry at a state level that has to be absolutely accurate and must be monitored. That and what Professor Hebrang suggested that it must be a state agency that will take care of it. I would also mention the provisions of the articles on the role of the National Commission for Medical Aided Insemination and see that in Article 21. The National Commission in this respect is intruding not only the Ministry of Health but also in part the work of the Croatian Medical Chamber, which is inadmissible and thus paragraph 6 says that the National Commission is carrying out expert and ethical supervision of institutions carrying out medically assisted fertilisation which I do not think is good. It can't be in the commission's jurisdiction. This must be within the competence of the professional bodies of the Croatian Medical Chamber. Paragraph 7 states that the commission proposes to the ministry professional rules of work which cannot be its jurisdiction. Professional rules of work, you know who's proposing, professional societies. Chapter 7... egg cells and early traps may be the most doubtful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The ethical dilemma causes egg cells and traps to be used in scientific research. That's what we've heard here, and I think that formulation or that part of the bill and the government's laws must really be decoded and well arranged so there won't be any dilemmas. And now storage, in chapter 8, storage of egg and seed cells and embryos, Article 35 discusses a five-year storage with a possibility of extending to another 5 years. So are we going to make it possible for future parents who want a child so badly that they have an embryo and wait five years for when this embryo from it to develop a child? Whether or not they will choose the season and the date when they want to have it, and they will extend it to them for another 5 years and finally what I think is really unacceptable to say: "The embryo that will not be used will be let go to die." We know what dying is. Only a human can die. They can die off stations and what Mrsic said, he says, "Well, every moment in a man's body," which I absolutely agree with "extincts thousands of cells". Yeah, but they can't make a child out of them. This is the embryo that fertilized the egg cell. It's a setup. And as a man of faith, I believe it to be a human being of conception. That's my belief, please. Therefore, we must be very careful that at least the formulation is not: "We will let him die." And eventually scientific research work. "It was allowed with egg or seed cells as well as with early traps exclusively for the purpose of preserving and improving human life." The improvement of human life is a very, very broad concept and I think this formulation leaves the possibility of maximum manipulation. Indeed maximum manipulations and I think that if we go, let the profession say, let the ethical committees say if that provision can go? But then we limit ourselves and say what it is? Not "to improve human life". I really don't think that formulation can be in a bill that would bring many problems to an end. And in the end, I must say that I agree that such a law is absolutely necessary in the Republic of Croatia primarily because of marriages that have difficulties, infertile marriages, extramarital communities but also because of the progress of the medical profession and of our doctors and experts working in this area, and the law must be comprehensive. All that this bill lacks and, in particular, ethical principles that there must be a broad consensus of all interested in this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20307	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20308	My dear colleague, I am very pleased that you mentioned chlamydia infections in your discussion as one of the causes of infertility. I will repeat several times, and this time in the Croatian Parliament, I insisted that a decision on health education be made to prevent, in some ways, the epidemic data that we have in Croatia. Today, according to some estimates, there is no "screening" on chlamydia around 30% of freshmen are infected with chlamydia. And we today do not have health education or any education in this regard. Secondly, in your discussion you talked about treating infertility, about infertility you only talked about women. I want to warn you that men are even more in numbers than women, they have fertility problems. You didn't mention them in your discussion. And thirdly, by respecting your ethical dilemmas as well as the ethical dilemmas of every other citizen and citizen of the Republic of Croatia, I just want to say that this law is not binding on anyone. This law allows those who want to do so, who want to decide on the procedures of medically assisted insemination and simply enables them to do so. Those who, because of their personal worldly, religious, ethical, however you want to think and think, view such a thing as unacceptable or something that they do not want to commit to, of course, the law does not commit to anything. I think you should say that when we talk about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20309	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20310	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I'd say to a respected colleague. Indeed, we agree that prevention programmes in the public health care of the Republic of Croatia since the early 1990s have been controversial but in recent years the Ministry of Public Health has implemented really great public-health actions and in terms of chlamydia has not implemented but the County Office and the Department of Public Health of the County, I know in my carlovakia county we really take care of it and there is education in schools, there is also education in my hospital, there are preventive checks but what is the problem with chlamydia? I mean, that, here, we don't get into the profession that most of them pass asymptomaticly, they don't have symptoms. So it's hard to treat. But I agree they need preventive programs. As far as male infertility is concerned, we absolutely agree, and according to statistics, it's bigger than women, it's not just women who are guilty. I was talking about a total of 15% of marriages that are either out of wedlock communities infertile. And ethical dilemmas precisely because every man with us has his ethical dilemma and moral importance that the profession in collaboration with the best experts brings solutions that will be least susceptible to abuse. And we see in history and in the world not only with us with this worse law that there was abuse. So let's avoid it in a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20311	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20312	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My friend, you've just said one sentence. It's not just women. I'm very sorry that in fact you as a doctor in general, when it comes to infertility, you are going to use one of these words in the first place, to seek guilt with a married partner who is guilty of more or less. But apparently that's part of some of our delusions. I want to address you in the replica exactly in the part where my colleague Lugaric is infertility. At least it's not fair, and I think it's wrong for you as a doctor to talk about infertility to talk exclusively about women's or the causes of infertility in women. About 80s ago, somewhere around the infertility of a married couple was in some 20% of the cases male infertility. Today, and I suppose you know that. After all, you said that in response to the replica. Almost every male infertility in a married couple is caused by the fact that the couple or the outmarried partners cannot have children. Somewhere around 40% of the cause lies on men. But I don't like it when we talk about this problem that we're even going now to weigh whether it's more female infertility or male. It should primarily do everything possible in research, for example, which has led to such a drastic increase, for example infertility in men and especially in that part should work on preventive programs that are absolutely not available in our society in our schools. We don't have any special health care. About having an hour or two during one school year through some biology class something generally related to this issue I think, and I believe you'll agree with me absolutely insufficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20313	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, distinguished MPs, if that's how you realized it was women's fault I apologize, because I, if I'd written the text then I'd put out quotes because I laughed at my colleague Lugaric when I said it wasn't women's fault in terms of when, but when they talk about infertile marriages then always in the people says who's the guilty man or woman. Of course, it's no one's fault that infertility is a disease, a disease to be treated. And obviously, I am glad that my debate has also raised another problem, which is the public health problem of preventing infertility, why it occurs more often today. And that's where you said it and what it agrees with the statistical scientific data that men are in increased numbers by 40%. But women appear precisely for the reason that I led them to argue that women all the later enter not only the marriage community, but also the fact that they have children. After 30 years of age of women and men, I told the marriage community, after 30 years, sometimes 25 years ago, that was your first child born in Croatia on Monday, 23 and a half years ago. Today, that average is closer to 30 years. That's the problem. And that's why most women today are infertile because they first try to have a child in their 30s. And I also said why the fertile power of a woman declines with age. It's scientific data. I don't have to interpret it at all. It's not the place to discuss it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20315	Thank you. And the replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20316	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I must say that I am very glad that you as a doctor and a humanist assess the need to pass one of these laws. I believe you really believe that without believing it because the government believes it. However, you have expressed a few things, six, seven things disagreement from this law, in this bill of ours. Here, I ask you as a humanist to raise your hand to this law, to write those six amendments. I guarantee you I'll do anything to make these amendments pass, since this is the first reading. Even here, you raise your hand to him, we'll take down the stenogram and put ourselves in that law, so there's no problem. Because you know, unlike you, I also hold myself as a humanist. Although I am not a doctor, I am a politician and I must tell you that there is no party and there is no party discipline that will force me to consider that some law is in the interest of the Croatian people, the Croatian state, that I will not raise my hand to it. After all, I can also explain to you how long I've raised my hand to your government's bill of law in the last 10, 11 months. And tell me, are you ready for any? If you're not, here's your chance to raise your hand as a humanist for a proposal that you yourself said was necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20317	Let's see how much coaxing has worked. Dear Representative Strikic, respond to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If a woman had talked me into it, I might have let it go. No, a little joke. But I think that I do, and that's my view that there are good things in this bill that are likely to be implemented in the government's proposal, and for example, it will be an exceptional opportunity for you to recognize the part and what you're proposing in government law to raise your hands for government law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20319	Thank you. And we're moving on with an individual discussion. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20320	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to join this debate with a few sentences. I'm glad to hear, in fact, from the club of the majority party, and the words about the need to pass a law like this, and I agree with all those who say that, it seems to me somewhere that maybe I should just agree on a few amendments to say so, so that this law may experience another reading, or possibly even be accepted. But the secretary of state said today if I'm not mistaken that for about 10 days I should, I hope I understood well enough to come up with a proposal, so the government comes out with a bill of its own. I hope that exactly because, a month ago, at the meetings of the Committee on Gender Equality, at least on my Committee on Gender Equality, we got an answer from the Ministry's representative that, as the Government said in the opinion, the government would make it, or that it would join the establishment of a working group, and then it would go into law making and when the question was asked when it was expected that this law could see the light of the day turned out that, in practice, with the time of entry into the European Union, we would be more serious about this problem, so now I don't know how it was and what changes it had taken place. In addition, the government's opinion states that a public debate on the draft bill has been launched. I don't really know about the bill. What today is that there is a live public debate about the bill's proposal, so the bill coming from the SDP club. But on one portal, among other things, one association that deals with the problem of infertility writes this way: "At this moment, the country is shaking a terrible epidemic. Your friends won't call you to find out if you're the victim. The humanitarian organizations will not rush to help you not if you have fertility problems, you probably feel quite alone in your struggle Your reaction may be why I, everyone else has children. That's not fair.". So I quoted this from one portal, and this is an introduction to a broader debate about the problem of infertility, but also about what all couples face when they actually face after consecutive attempts, they can't have what they might want most, which is children. It has already been said here several times today that according to the World Health Organization, a total of 10% of couples are infertile, so in some world scales and the next 10% have reduced fertility. The data for the Republic of Croatia say that the percentage moves somewhere between 15% and 20%, which would mean every sixth pair, which would mean about 50,000 couples in Croatia are facing the problem of infertility, and unfortunately that percentage is on a steady rise. And precisely because of these figures when it comes to the problem of infertility, we must no longer view it as a personal problem that only concerns couples who are facing this problem, possibly doctors who are addressing it is already a public health problem, i.e. the problem of society as a whole, because it affects the nationality that is threatened in our country anyway. Well, I'll actually be pleased if this bill has once again started a debate on this issue in Croatia and perhaps we should all together instead instead of saying we're pouring tears over couples who can't have children we all do something in common to those couples who can't have children because of infertility to help them all together who want us to allow through the biomedical fertilisation process to get to their underage. Instead of just declaratively often mentioning all our powerful strategies and policies related to our children, population policy and the like at the same time, we're actually allowing ourselves as a society luxury, I'd say that for many years we've been giving up the possibility of the birth of thousands of children. Somewhere, it seems to me that the problem of medically assisted insemination is, in fact, in this country to those to whom it should be important, so to those who propose laws, who propose regulations, obviously does not matter. Unfortunately, it is important for couples who meet this vital issue of life for them often and crucially. In Croatia and here we all agree on a fat I would say the limitations of legal regulation, we are talking about not allowing a modern process of biomedical fertilisation that is supported by the progress of medical science. As a result, there are no sanctions for potential offenders or those who would abuse me to say that to someone else's suffering and misery. We don't have a central register, etc. Or maybe we're all talking together about the arrangements of our hospital spaces dealing with this problem, or generally, for example, gynecological departments in our hospitals. And today's medicine, and before that, it seems that too many years have closed their eyes, has progressed enough to help people with infertility to achieve their strong desire for their own child through medically assisted insemination. The laws to be passed, which this Croatian Assembly should adopt, are adopted to regulate social relations and situations, to prevent irregularities and manipulations and to primarily protect human rights as laws. In this case, they protect fundamental human rights and that's reproductive law. I will remind you once again of the reasons that led the SDP to go with the bill. In order to enable the use of new forms of medical assistance, to regulate the borders allowed as well as the protection of the rights and interests of persons participating in these procedures, to prevent abuses in relation to the application of different fertilisation procedures with biomedical aid and to involve ourselves finally or again, I would say in the order of European countries that have legally regulated medical achievements in this area. Couples facing the problem of infertility are least concerned about who is currently in power, whether HDZ, SDP, HSS or not know which fourth, fifth or tenth parties. These couples as citizens of the Republic of Croatia who want to use these methods expect us to help them as a state, to pass a law that will be applicable and that will allow them to access the most modern medical achievements. We simply do not have the right to deny each and every option to couples who want to go through with medically assisted insemination and to make their wishes come true, their right to have a child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20321	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We're talking about one topic, so here's almost all morning, which is a bioethically relevant, socially and politically current, and as such certainly requires a broad polyvalent bioethical approach. Otherwise, if there is no such thing, then there will be actually a big issue, or the issue of opposition, still in public on this very, very important issue, hence infertility and treatment of infertility. We heard different opinions here this morning, however, and on these different opinions we heard different assessments or reactions to such opinions. And there were those who were absolutely different from what I was talking about, and I am so fond of Mr. Vice President who made it clear that this is the Croatian Parliament and that all the laws are being discussed here, all the issues are freely and in line with all the beliefs, including those of my colleague Strikic. It is very important to note that when this matter comes to the fact that the European Union actually requires us to regulate this matter, but in no way does it prescribe any rules for us to regulate this matter, and it is up to us to regulate it in quality, efficiency and in the best, in the best way possible when it comes to the needs of those for whom this matter is regulated. I support my colleague Strikic's position primarily as a doctor who spoke here of a major epidemiological problem, so my colleague spoke of it before me. So from the point of view of epidemiological infertility is a major problem in Croatia and is not only caused by not knowing one of the causes mentioned here but can be absolutely wider. One of them is among other things, nobody mentioned it here, it's malignancy. So people can experience a certain malignant disease and then because of the treatment, they actually get into a situation that they can't have children later, and of course it's one of the reasons that they should absolutely think about and think about in a certain way in the direction of solving that problem. I certainly bow to my colleague, Strickic, who spoke here of everything that means prevention means preventing infertility as such. Because I repeat the epidemiological view if it is true that up to 15% of marriages in the Republic of Croatia have infertility problems, then, in any case, you should consider how to approach this problem and from the point of view of prevention? So equally, absolutely equally, I'm here with my colleague Sobol and everyone else who has talked about it I've agreed, equally to prevent infertility in both men and women because in fact this one common mutual infertility and brings and leads to the fact that marriages don't have children and actually makes many of them unhappy and actually harder to achieve in order to have a child. The other thing is, and nobody can argue either, I'm not that old, but neither young, but when I was studying and I was listening to gynecology, then they were teaching us, so don't chase me for a year, but I think it was treated like a woman who came to be born at 20, at that time with a 28-year-old firstborn. So that was some years ago, however, but I admit that this limit has moved to more but in any case, of course, to get married in later years leads to what it leads to and that in its own way it is also a matter of responsibility for each individual and many of the people who do not unfortunately have children sometimes precisely because they actually get into marriage late come into this problem. Therefore, health care and all that Lugaric said when it comes to prevention and so forth is absolutely taken into account in order to actually regulate the issue. This proposal is an incentive to think and in any case my support in that segment of the proposal. So in thinking about the debate, the action. But precisely for the reasons for which it is here, which are listed here by both the Secretary of State and by others here, including our club president, Professor Andrija Hebrang, of course I cannot vote for this law. So he in some ways doesn't determine what it is to treat infertility, what is actually medically assisted insemination? How are those databases that were spoken about and so on regulated? In particular, it bothers me, and it is absolutely unacceptable for me, and I call here as well as my colleague Strickic on my absolute conviction and belief of many others in this House, so I especially find it unacceptable, say Article 35, in which it stands in the last sentence literally the following text: "During the deadlines referred to in paragraph 1 and 2 of this article of the seed cell and unfertilised egg cells should be destroyed and the early embryo let die." And here, I do not agree at all with my colleague Mrsic when he says, "Let's let this matter go to the waist." What does that mean, "Let this matter go to the waist?"? What profession? What profession is he talking about? Are we just talking about medical expertise, or should we include other professions that this is all about? And those other professions certainly have something to say. And since we're already on medical or biological if you want, I'd say quite incorrectly about the exposure of my colleague Petyr and you said, I don't know, what you said and you looked back on the question of life, the dying of cells, and so on. But you were wrong there, too. My dear colleague, Mrs. Gristle, and you were wrong there. Stations can die. The cells are dying, it's true, but nothing can die that isn't alive. And you have to agree with me. So you say station. Amoeba is a single-cell organism. Is she alive? And of course she's alive. So it's a living organism. So you can't get into that, at that point, fertilized egg cells and talk about it as something that's not life. It's absolutely unacceptable, and as far as I'm concerned, it's absolutely foreign to me. Finally, I repeat, nothing can die that is not alive. Furthermore, if we really want to regulate this matter, and we want to, we've all shown that desire here, regardless of how anyone looks at this matter in terms of what's acceptable to him that's not in this law. So, I didn't say I shouldn't regulate this matter if I did, if I don't agree with some provisions. If I don't agree with some of the provisions in this bill, that's my right. Therefore, it is up to us to reach as much consensus as possible on this issue, and in no way to divide, and especially not to let the public be divided in such a way that they are to God on one side of the profession, and on the other, there are some who and what are probably some kind of reverses that are against the waist. Therefore, it is absolutely unacceptable and should do everything that does not happen. Because some of the debates here from my colleagues in the opposition were just like that, that those who pointed to the problem, which pointed to what they didn't like, were at the same time, with about one mild indication as among other things, not as advanced. Therefore, counterpart Stazic even made it clear. No. This is a conflict not ideological. This is a conflict of advanced and unsupervised. For me, progress is all that's done in quality, what needs to be done, what's good. Therefore, it is good and quality to ask this matter and this question and discuss it, but it is advanced and quality to solve it. And it's not advanced at all, it's actually backwards to ask this question and not solve it properly. And it's the only one that actually resents this side and us MPs who've been telling us how we are. Finally, my absolute support Mr. Secretary of State announces to you the editing of this issue, this passing of this law, which systematically, in quality, therefore, and from all aspects, will discuss this issue in which everyone, absolutely everyone who has anything to say, no matter what experts came from the hospital, came from the university, came from the church, whether they came from where. Therefore, they must be involved and everyone must say what they think about this. And I end up with that, regardless of how we fix this matter tomorrow, I hope it's quality. However, it always remains that however we arrange it, that some marriages, that some families will not be able to have children. And then the man comes to mind and I conclude Mr. Vice President, so one wonderful human activity, which is adoption and foster care. When it comes to this, it should be kept in mind, and it should be supported by all these and those actions and those people who decide, because it is a big decision, a very important decision and my absolute support to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20323	Thank you. Now we have five replicas first. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20324	You're saying a colleague needs to open up a broad bioethical debate about this problem that I can agree with. You're also saying that some people are saying here that this is the attitude on this issue of forward and backward. That's what you're talking about and polymizing. And I would agree with you that there is no attitude between the forward and the backward, because those who represent God very backwards are very advanced when it comes to that problem, only that's not what they're talking about. So they use all sorts of medical achievements, but they don't talk about it either. Therefore, it is not between forward and backward speech and behavior. Here's the thing about hypocrisy. And you know why? Because first of all doctors and you know it well are obliged to use all medical means to save one life to extend a life. Although many will say that sometimes it doesn’t seem to live on its own in a deep age, the transplant on its own in the future when we see how only rich people can afford it, and the transplant of certain vital parts, and all of it in general medical and bioethically, is not likely for you either. And it's really like that. It is not questionable to extend one’s life, even when the quality of life is almost nothing reduced to vegetation, but it is the duty of a doctor to help extend such a life. Well, then, too, ergo colleagues, you know it's a doctor's duty to help create a new life when parents want it with love. You were also talking about responsibility. No one spoke of the responsibility of a man who left such a woman who was pregnant. There's little bioethical consils and symposia about it. That's not what we're discussing. It's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20325	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I'd ask you to stick to the time prescribed that we don't have to warn. It's very embarrassing and unnecessary. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20326	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't know what you just called a hypocritical colleague or you called me hypocritical and my speech. So you didn't, if you didn't, then I really have nothing to say to that. So you've pollemized with quite another question that has not been spoken of here. And on the other hand, when you were talking about advanced, you said you were against it. I didn't even speak from the position of the advanced and the backward, but I was actually talking about how it was talked about. And that's what your colleague Stazic was talking about. So you could have put that replica to him, not to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20327	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20328	Dear colleague Bagarić, it seems that on the subject of prevention and health care we are finally coming to the same positions, so I ask you, since no different appeal has worked either from opposition or from any non-governmental associations or interested public to make some personal effort to convince your party colleague, Minister Primorac, that it is really necessary to introduce health education based on scientific grounds and devoid of any moralizing intimidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20329	I didn't realize, the answer is, it's not an answer. Yes, then distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić answers to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for giving me a chance to replicate. So, colleague Marija Lugaric and I have been discussing this in a certain way since the last term. So there's a lot we agree on when it comes to this matter. So we agree on what's the point, so we really need to do prevention and my support for absolutely every act of prevention when it comes to it. However, there is one segment in which we disagree and I am not hypocritical and I don't want to be, because I don't think I know the exception to that sin or anyone else. But then, we disagree, and that's a fundamental question about the kind of education that you're saying is scientifically proven. You understand, there's no education that can be proven scientifically, because education doesn't admit, just a little bit, that kind of approach you're talking about. So, education is a thing between other things and the world's horizon and beliefs and beliefs, etc. If I were to tell you that it would be the best health education for young girls and young boys, that is, young people and girls to avoid numerous partners, that this is the most effective form of combating these sexually transmitted diseases and all the consequences you would disagree with. However, it has been scientifically proven as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20331	Thank you. Replicated representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20332	Thank you. My colleague Bagaric, I'm glad we're getting along. And you've called yourself several times for my debate before you. However, in one part of your debate with the right of course and I support it you call for a consensus of all about this issue. My colleague Bagaric, you and I were sitting in the last meeting. What changed compared to 2004 or the beginning of 2005 when the law that came from the government to this building was the result of consensus. The public was then in a large majority for the adoption of the proposed Biomedical Aided Insemination Act just then. What changed in the meantime? How can I trust you now that within ten days, says your secretary of state, you will suddenly come to this consensus and refer to this Croatian Parliament a draft of a bill that will be agreed upon by all. Comrade Bagaric, do you know what happened in the meantime? There have been 140 books printed and shared during the blessings of houses called "Children Gift or Thing, Truths and Mistakes of Insemination". It happened and it was crucial in 2004 that you then bowed down to power and withdrew the bill. What changed in the meantime? In those who have printed 140 thousand of these books absolutely nothing has changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20333	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20334	Dear colleagues, I know you didn't think so, but it's not good to say that the Secretary of State is ours. So, ours, only ours, so yours. Actually, you said yours. Dear Secretary of State, you are all ours. So, you're welcome here to the Parliament. You spoke excellently here, I congratulate you. And when you talk about what's changed, what hasn't changed, etc. Among other things, let's be honest to the end. So I was saying when I was talking about this matter I was saying that it would be good to let everyone say what they think, to hear everybody's voice and not to happen to a part of the media and a part of the political public that abuses this matter in the way it makes it set things up. On the one hand there are those who understand and who are advanced, and on the other side there are those who are backward, who are some insolent Catholics or I don't know what. Hence, the ones you mentioned wearing these brochures also blessed the houses. Well, I understand who that applies to. So let's not do that. If we really want to arrange this matter then let's hear the voice of everyone. Let's not hear it. We have to hear it. So we are a people for God who inherit what is in the heritage and who grew up in that tradition where it is Christian. So we can't ignore that voice. On the other hand, I haven't even heard from the secretary of state that he said he'd bring it in ten days. He said the government is working on that material and will bring it here. So let it be of ten, let it be at the end of the line if that matter is not regulated for so many years, let it be regulated over ten months, but let it be quality regulated and let it achieve a high level of consensus. And I guess that's our goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20335	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20336	Advanced or vice versa. There's a problem. Infertile couples have problems, I can't have children. Is there a medical solution to this problem? There is. What's his name again? Medically assisted insemination. Has this medical solution entered the standard procedure of other European advanced countries? Yes, it is. So how do you call someone who refuses to apply this procedure in their own country? So what else do you call it than a backbone because it has a thousand and one reason and it will invent another 2,000 to refuse to solve this problem in a fashion modern, in a manner professional, in a way medically justified, in a way that is applied in the modern world. Well, look, your colleague Doric told you. When the car was invented, it was written that if a man drove 100 kilometers an hour, it would break his heart. They were written in the newspaper at the time, ignoring, stupid because they knew nothing about it, because they were afraid of progress, afraid of what brought reality and what brought science. That fear, that backstabbing fear I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20337	We have a reply to the replica, the esteemed Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20338	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. So, first of all, you should stand up here in this House for true pluralism not only of society but also of opinions and beliefs at every level. Therefore, here everyone should be allowed to say everything he thinks and doesn't insult anyone else. So there were no insults here, there was nothing and there was no reason for us to call on this backbone, forwardness, etc. On the other hand, we don't refuse to answer that question, we don't refuse that. So the secretary of state said that it was working out, we said, it's our example that our specific proposals. I said thank you for the debate, for encouraging the issue of this that needs to be systematically regulated. Therefore, and I will conclude with that of yours when you called upon Mr. Doric and when you spoke of how people believed then. Well, I believe now that it's harmful to drive as much as I drive between myself and those at the same time. Therefore, the lack of evidence is no proof of anything. Thus, you have not ruled out anything and, of course, many things we do not know and are not close to us, are not acceptable to us that they can produce harmful effects that we do not know about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20339	Thank you. Replicated representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20340	Thank you very much. So once again, about the same trail, he would ask his colleague Bagaric. Since he spoke on several occasions about the need to pass this law or this law, that he mentioned a consensus, here I am again expressing my willingness in front of the SDP to make this an opportunity to sit down and solve all the dilemmas. As far as I've been listening to you doctors, there's plenty of you here to talk about it very professionally and wisely I think there's no such thing as a big dilemma. As far as I've also seen it, it seems to me that there are some kind of ethical or moral dilemmas. Let's sit around it and sort it out and find some measure I don't see why we should wait like you said 10 days or 10 months? Why don't we do it today? Because as some colleagues have mentioned, it's not about me or you or us. It's about 15% of the family, so married couples in Croatia. Let's help these people. To enable them to fulfill their dream or to have children. Why wait 10 months? Why wait a year, two days? If we can do it this month. Here, Mr. Bagaric, once again I appeal to you, to your ethics and morale, let's settle it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20341	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20342	So thank you very much for calling, but it's amazing your easy approach, accessing such a complex problem. So it's really amazing. So you say let's go here, we've been talking all morning about problems that we don't get along with here which is why it's not about one thing, it's about a lot of things. And now you say let me sit down for 10 minutes and let me sort it out. And you really don't think... You said, "Let's sit down and get rid of it." [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] How much time do you need? So don't convince me that you think so badly of this bill of yours so you can approach it. So that's one very unserious approach and I'd say, I'm not going to say at all what I think about when you called on mine, I don't know honesty either, as ethics is said and so on. It's just, that's just not the kind of debate you're talking about producing that material. Well, here's the secretary of state. Now I ask you, will it be easier for Shime Lucin to pass this law we're talking about or will it be easier for the minister? Therefore, he invites you to a consensus and to a conversation. So join here. It's not questionable at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20343	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20344	209 related to a number of other articles. If I mentioned, if I mentioned the intention, then I don't understand you. I'm quite honest with you on your trail, let's not sharpen, let's talk. He was replicating something I wasn't talking about. [[/Employee: Your Honor, what is the breach of the Rules of Procedure?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20345	It's replicated in that sense. Thank you very much. It's not It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Aggression: In this sense is replicated?]] No, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[- Intruder? How is it not?]] Thank you. [[But I wasn't talking about what my colleague was about.]] Your Honor, I thank you. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's not. In the name of, Your Honor, we've played a little bit, so it would really be a replica on the line, and it's not going to work. That's why there's a Rules of Procedure, and we have to stick to it. Now, on behalf of the promoter, we have a distinguished representative, Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20346	I'm sorry he doesn't have one, and he has a colleague named Strickic. We are all doctors. When we talk about death, then death is philosophical, and when we talk about the death of a cell, then it's a biological term and let's not go after those two parts because then if we talk about what you were talking about, then abortion would be a crime. As far as I know, an abortion isn't sanctioned as a felony of murder. In your words, abortion would be a felony of murder and many would then be sanctioned in, legally. So when we talk about a plot, the embryo is a set of cells from which life can and doesn't have to arise. So when we talk about dying, we talk about dying of a cell, we talk about dying of a gene, we talk about dying of a cell as a cell, not a philosophical notion of death. And I'm sorry that you didn't listen to your club president speaking constructively about the proposal but we went to that part of the other part of preventing infertility that needs to be solved by another law, it's not the subject of this law. We started talking about a colleague named Bagarić about the law of one whom I hope you will have to pass the same, which is the Law on the Protection of the Health of a woman in which certain things should be defined. And my colleague Bagarić, when we talk about how we need a consensus on how to solve it and how to naturally resolve it, can't be solved in one way as you think, but should be resolved in a way that we agree but obviously as well as the issue of reforms that are trying to resolve these days of the deal clearly doesn't have but has one mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20347	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State, the Honorable Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20348	Sir. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. [[I'm sorry, too late, thank you.]] So on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I have to react here to a few things. From today’s debate in the Assembly, it becomes clear that a law is needed, but not as such a law is said, but a law that will regulate the area of reproductive cells, which will regulate the area of medically assisted fertilisation. When we said it wasn't this proposal and it wasn't supported for that reason, we'll confirm it one more time. What changed from 2004 to 2006? Two European directives have been adopted. What changed from 2004 to 2006? Contributions have also been made to the directives. Therefore, this legislative proposal is not in line with the directives at all and does not take into account the existence of European directives introduced by European countries and according to which these modern laws of the European State to which this proposal is intended are rested. That's not it. What part isn't it in? I could explain now, as I said, it's not about one or two articles of the law that would be arranged by amendment. This is practically about objecting to each article of the law and amending each article of the law. I will repeat again even though the transcript will certainly exist, I did not say that in 10 days it will be in the Croatian Parliament. I said that within 10 days within, within 10 days, there would be a public debate on one legislative proposal which took into account those proposals which were seen here in 2004 and which were done by the same experts according to my findings as it was said, which did so in this proposal and as seen since there are different solutions from the same experts, obviously not enough experts consulted when one or the other can be a solution, and which the proposal must also be in line with the provisions of the European Union on, for example, the criteria for selecting the providers of sex cells and laboratory tests to be submitted and which are set out in Articles 3 and 4 of the 2006 Directive. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot support such a proposal and we feel called when we are told that we always want to withdraw to past times. 1978 is the law. He's been here 30 years. In those 30 years, the area has been completely unregulated. There have been various governments in these 30 years and now ask the question that this is the solution that is now being offered, which is not according to all these criteria, that it is the only thing and that we have refused to accept such a solution because we are not going to help people who need it is a very difficult accusation because we say that the law should be passed, our proposal will be. It will be as modern as it should be in favour of such people, and this proposal and we agree that it should be regulated by law. But I repeat this proposal, we cannot support it again, and not for the reason that he listed the proposal's representative in the recent address of reporters from the time of 2003, when he said they knew they needed to be brought, but that they were afraid of the government's fall. That came out in the press two days ago from the promoter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20349	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Dear representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20350	A respected colleague of the vice president, colleagues and colleagues. We have debated much about this law and this law that we can discuss about some others in a number of ways. We can talk medically. That's how some fellow doctors discussed it. We can talk to different aspects of ethics and the like. However, it seems to me that in the entire debate, we have ignored the people to whom this law applies, couples who cannot have children. I wonder all those who make it very easy to say the sentences that one day will come, and in general that day will never come when we get a newer, more modern, more appropriate law, for this whole time hundreds and hundreds of couples in Croatia are going through a lot of trouble that anyone in their vicinity or family has not had such cases. I have had the opportunity to get to know what couples who go through artificial insemination are going through, and let me, in addition to the argument in this discussion, ask that while we talk about it, as a better solution or a solution, b hundreds of people literally suffer to read a testimony from one of my acquaintances who has been anonymously publishing for years what she and her husband are going through through the medically assisted insemination process. She says: “Did you know that an average Croatian couple with a statistical average Croatian salary should work for a little more than a month if they are both employed to earn the cost of a single out-of-body fertilisation procedure if this method is indicated for infertility? They will earn for him and only for him if he does not eat anything during that month, will not pay directors or have any other cost of life, i.e. if it will work only for that one procedure." So speak further, skip one part of the medicine and price. He says: “Actually, reading how it is imagined seems to be all together ideally, everything is free, to all the Health Institute regardless of age, except for some medicines that are necessary and very, very expensive. Okay. Not everything is free after you get that famous diagnosis of primary sterility because by waiting for some searches you will indirectly force some of it to do in your own arrangement, i.e. in the case of a private doctor’. Then: “They won’t charge you for the insemination process, but they will charge for the consumption material for example catheters.” There are about four hundred kunas, and I wonder how much a catheter costs and how many of them are needed for one single insemination, so if it is one or three or five, they are probably at least gilded. My acquaintance took advantage of her right to three attempts at the burden of the institute. Without success after the third for the fourth, she had to pay for both fifth and sixth. In view of the fact that both she and her husband are slightly below the average citizens of this country by income and for these excessive procedures they have managed. They cut the costs of luxury that were not objectively or objectively, trying to save as much as they could, and what they couldn't collect themselves, they borrowed. Then after six failed attempts, they decided to raise their hands. They couldn't afford them anymore financially or emotionally. Next thing you know, one of my acquaintances is saying that. “In this country there are parliamentary representatives and government members not only of them but also of various scientists, but also of a church full of worry about the white plague and lack of birth. If, then, natural growth should be stimulated at least verbally for various speakers obviously should not and practically help those who torture and cry for months because they neither themselves nor their own state are able to cheer up their own biological offspring. Because every year, the state approves of a growing number of medically assisted fertilization procedures. The waiting lists are getting longer and faster so let him pay in one of the private clinics and hands that he cannot wait for even though at least they should be free at the state hospital until one of the methods succeeds or gives up." The proposal for a government law on medically assisted fertilisation lies in drawers since autumn 2004 and will soon be impossible to take off the cobwebs that have been caught on it. And the law of '78 is in force. A year. The chronological youngest is the announcement of a new proposal that should be closer to the worldview of the citizens of this country probably those 87% of the statistical believers, which in practice could mean an even greater reduction of the rights to these, according to some unnatural methods of conception. Because the minister said that, quote: “The women the doctor would say more incoroded and their greater engagement would be sought. ” It's as if women aren't incoduced enough by the fact that conception didn't happen in the same way that every woman would want it to happen instead of on a hospital table with catheters, injections, hormonal pills, functions, transfers. After all of this was expected on the waiting list and cried out hectolitres of tears and for this conception in fact very often only an attempt was forced to take a sick leave, perhaps to travel to one of the clinics in the metropolis, so in particular to announce the urea at the obi where the stage of her reproductive life was. “However, what the legislator could help, which is probably all of us, is that infertility is a diagnosis like other diseases and since at least it declares the birthrights of those who are forced to seek medical help and thus shows that infertility, i.e. sterility does not treat almost as luxury.” The end of this quote and in some way the argument of personal, people who go through all this together and who I forget very often. So I, like many of my colleagues and colleagues, call on the government to instead of making promises to make some better and smarter, more comprehensive and I don't know what kind of law, and we usually hear it every time the SDP bill is on the agenda, to take this proposal, to accept it in the first reading, and then really make a bill together for a solution to the problem that we all agree that the problem is, that the current solutions are not adequate and that they should actually be modernised in some way. Otherwise, I can't explain it any other way than by reason of society, politics and actually by lack of political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20351	Thank you. Well, we'll interrupt the debate now, and we'll continue at 3:00. The first in the debate is Honorable Representative Igor Dragovan. Thank you very much. We continue with the session on the Proposal for a Law on the Treatment of Infertility and Fertility Procedures of Biomedical Aid, First Reading, Individual Discussion. The first is as I have announced the distinguished representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20353	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Today's morning debate in this assembly showed a high level of agreement on the need for such a law in Croatia and that's good. It has shown a high level of understanding of the problems that people who face this problem have whether they are married couples or partners living in a marriage community. There have been different opinions with different grounds in terms of how this law should look, but what is most important and what I personally think is that children should not be the subject of any ideological debate, should not be the subject of political bickering, should not be the subject of collecting political points on any political option being done. What we are all very well aware of is that this law is necessary. We in the SDP went with this bill because, among other things, it has been confirmed that the law that is now in force, which is now in force, does not ensure a quality solution to this problem in Croatia. But I would also like to point out one thing that the GFK Agency conducted field research in 2005 and this research shows that medically assisted fertilisation is acceptable for almost 2/3 of Croatian citizens. This means that there is not only a consensus in this Chamber on the need for this law, but there is simply almost 2/3 consensus and thinking in Croatia that it is necessary to pass such a law, and that law would contribute to the safe increase in medically assisted fertilisation procedures in order to help increase the number of live births in order to reduce waiting lists and allow for faster, more quality access to those who need help in the treatment of infertility and the implementation of the procedure of medically assisted fertilisation. It is certain that this law would also contribute to improving the demographic picture of Croatia, but professional and scientific work in the field of medically assisted fertilisation would also be improved. And what is also to be pointed out, and not negligible, is to prevent the abuses that are being spoken of here today, too, and the fact itself where it was taken as an argument that there are certain levels of abuse of those who talk about it, and they are opposed to the adoption of that law, and they are talking about abuses, I can only ask whether they really want to reduce these abuses or think they are normal. I was glad to hear the government's opinion, or the secretary of state, who said we would pass the law, that it would be modern and that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be, that it The fact is also that with a high level of consensus of compliance of the main profession and many people participated in the creation of a law that has been in the ministry drawers for almost 4 years. In these four years, almost nothing has changed. Nothing has changed that would be new or that would be old if the law hadn't been passed. And we now get again from the government the promise that we will open up, that the government will open a public debate, that as many people as possible will be involved in preparing and making laws and that this law will be modern. I will raise both hands for this law only fear because I feel that this law is necessary, because I think people should be helped, but I'm afraid we won't wait a dozen days as it is announced today in this assembly that a particular proposal is coming out, but we'll wait a long time again until someone from the opposition puts a particular proposal in the process and then we'll get the same promise that the government will open a public debate and will pass the law. We're done talking. We'll do it. It's all good. That's why we're together, and there's no law. There's definitely no law. Because nothing in this period of four years has prevented the government from taking a responsible approach to solving this problem. It is nice to declare at one level that we are for this, but on the other hand, those who have the responsibility of the majority in this Parliament and decide in a certain way must also assume responsibility to regulate this issue as well. I only hope that when we get to that or if we get to the point that there will be no printing of certain 140000 brochures again, and that therefore the law will again go deep into the ministry's drawer until the next time the debate in the Croatian Parliament is opened, on the one hand. On the other hand, there have also been some assessments that I find unacceptable, which I think are wrong and I think some things are said easily in the Croatian Parliament. We cannot place children who are conceived by the artificial insemination process as different from other children. Those kids are just like all the other kids. We cannot talk about children as things, nor can we talk about such a law allowing children to be owned. Children are the most valuable thing, children are something that is the future of this country, and I think that all of us are individually, together, politically in the interest of ensuring those who cannot, who need help, are an adequate way to come, that is, to come to the opportunity to start a family with their children. And I appeal not only as the father of a girl who was born in a medically assisted insemination process but also on behalf of those who, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, want to open up the opportunity to reach the child in such a way. I am grateful to the people of the profession who are very responsible, very committed to doing their job and allow the progress of medicine and science to be as effective as possible, as best as possible, and I believe that here in the SDP, I personally appeal to those who at this moment have more hands in the Croatian Parliament, to make this step together and to discuss this law together and I see no reason why this law in the first reading is rejected in order to wait for someone else for whom you really allow me to leave a fat reserve, to see the light of day. I appeal for this law to be supported by another reading, and by the time it comes to that second reading, I believe that the Government can do its part, so we can discuss together a good proposal that would certainly contribute to this regulation being resolved in the best and satisfactory way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20354	Thank you. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20355	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, a few colleagues and colleagues. Here I think we've extended this topic to these late hours since this morning, and I think it could have been good faith and goodwill only on one written proposal to the Ministry of Health that this thing is also encouraged from the Ministry itself, especially or especially if we have these statements from the Secretary of State that this is in the plan, that in 10 days some proposal will be created, etc. But here we have heard many debates today, but I would only touch a few of them. It is clear from the debate that 50 thousand married couples in the Republic of Croatia to say torment is plagued by infertility, sterility, or attempts to treat infertility and end-of-the-end actions of possible, therefore, the procedures of medically assisted fertilisation. Since 1998, the number of live births in the Republic of Croatia has dropped from 48 to close to 50,000 to the number of last year, which is 40,000. Fifty thousand married couples being treated for infertility, who do not have children to get any of the methods just one child at a time, is 50,000 live births. So 10 thousand more than was born in the Republic of Croatia last year. Here, various medical contraindications are being placed to accept this initiative. I would call this an initiative or a contribution to the initiative or an incentive that finally all together, as they say by consensus, with the cooperation of all professional, scientific, therefore experts from all areas, including those in ethics or knowledge of tradition not to say here there were words and about the church, because times change, signs of time need to be recognized, and the signs of time show that Croatian population extinctions and that all those who can help are responsible, and also to say those traditionalists, because times are changing,... It's still moving. [[You don't understand.]] So if four years ago in that law that Mr. Hebrang was talking about and who suddenly disappeared from the bench of Parliamentarians and gave up the debate, he disappeared, that doesn't mean that some understanding, some notion, so this matter won't be treated differently now. In the good faith that it is, I am convinced that we will all together, so we will find a way to find this initiative that is here on the benches, which is actually the same, one incentive to really speed it up and bring it in as soon as possible to help these people who are looking for help. Now here are these 15 thousand children, therefore you are conceived and brought in this way by a medically assisted fertilization, like those children's explanations that children come into the world, flew from Kiev, Budapest, Vienna, Maribor and other cities of Europe, brought them to the Republic of Croatia, did I not talk about that genome, etc. So I think we also have our own brains, I think we have domestic experts, and I think we can satisfy all the ethical, traditional and all the other attitudes that we would like to meet these people who have had a lot of emotionalally quite a lot of speakers here for the Parliament speaker to talk about, to help them, and to solve it with home-made intelligence and domestic resources, and thus to help the population policy of the Republic of Croatia in some way. It was also about the prevention and the Law on the Protection of Women's Health, about getting married at quite late age, but we don't even wonder why. So that's prevention, which is why people get married late or how to get married if they have 3,000 kunas and the other one is unemployed. What they will marry, which will form their family, and that is prevention, and that is what we need to worry about. When we're just talking about this proposal that the SDP Representatives Club put out here, there are things that I don't agree with either. For example, in the last paragraph of Article 5, it is stated that the marriage or extramarital community must exist at the time of the entry of the sex cells or early embryo into the body of the woman. It means in certain situations like this. A white car that says "just married", married, let's say go to Zagreb if God will, on medically assisted insemination, on a married trip. I think it's kind of absurd to write here, so there must be a marriage or extramarital community at the time of the entry of the sex cells. But good. This excludes what we say about the treatment of infertility, so it can happen to rule out this previous part in which one is trying to cure someone from infertility, and that artificial insemination as they say or aided biomedical is the last link that can help someone finally get such a desired inheritance, such a wanted child. I wouldn't talk about comments in terms of abuse. In the world, we have witnessed many such things, and we have seen that, since the sale of stem cells, from incestuous opportunities and without knowledge, there is no one to store in this country refrigerator. So that's what apriors go for with mistrust. Apriori is starting from the assumption that we are a criminally highly developed country, so automation is said to be abuse. I think that's why there are other legal provisions and regulations. There are therefore sanctions that can be incorporated and sublegal acts that can still be incorporated into this bill so that this would not occur, and for sanctions to be very, very strict, very high penalties for such cases. Anyway, I welcome this bill. I expect the Secretary of State to execute my promise today, not to pass the law, but to make one proposal. It is clear that since experts have also done this, with the help of persons who are also highly directed to matter that part of this will also enter the materials of the Ministry of Health and that we expect and expect a personal final bill within a month or two days, so at the first next session at least so in January on these benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20356	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Bruno Kurelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20357	Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As my esteemed predecessor said, the time of this debate has been extended and I believe that we, at least those who are in the hall here now, are already a little bit and fed up with this debate. Well, the subject is important, important. There are at least two reasons why I came forward for this discussion. The first is that I'm a longtime healthcare professional and I wanted to say something about this health care worker situation. However, the discussion extended, everything was said, so no matter what side the arguments were on, there is hardly anything to add. During the debate, however, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament invited me to speak as a parliamentary representative. I, when this law saw the light of the day or the proposal of this law in June of this year, received or contacted me to say better, several couples who were interested in passing this law. And that's why I feel compelled to say something from that point of view, because this law is ultimately brought about by these people. My colleagues from the SDP, arguing for the adoption of this law, have today shown that this law shows a high dose of usability in view of the problem of medically assisted fertilisation. And therefore, I will be saddened if the proposal of this law in the form and content that it is presented here does not enter into another reading, even if it is followed by the Government's proposal and we together pass a law that will comprehensively address this matter. Some of my colleagues here today talked about a bill that entered the procedure in 2004, if I'm not mistaken in the fall, in September. But just as he quickly entered the procedure, he quickly disappeared from the public. I don't know why, I can only doubt it. Whether after public and possibly secret pressures of certain structures, which are mildly stated by their concept of this problem do not coordinate with time and space. The arguments of power, not by the power of the arguments, then forced Prime Minister Dr Sanader, the prime minister in a European meeting to drop the law. And today I can conclude that this law, ours, the SDP that saw the light of the day in June of this summer, repeats the same scenario, even the schedule of forces does not depart, so what remains of me is to think as a long-standing health worker as the contents of this law that should still be at the end of the basic medical law. Repeat, basic medical law. Everything tells me that it seeks to postpone the adoption of this law by the basis of very discriminatory courts especially during the time and space in which we live, especially where we want to go in the environment of the European Union. And so, as much as we may resent, I first of all express my personal opinion that not passing this law is the result of a whole series of not only hypocritical, first of all, political reasons, a team before this law is as we heard today and by respected Professor Hebrang midway. The law is not too liberal and can be credible in this area. According to the World Health Organization, 10% of couples are infertile, and 10% of them have fertility problems. And I guess it's gentlemen that even here in Croatia we think seriously about passing this law. And so I ask you that we who have been fortunate to become parents help those who have not had that happiness and in the legal formulation. Because this is the law I repeat primarily for those who haven't had that luck. Because you all know that couples who don't have a child, who want to have one, will go away to say so harshly in their pregnancy, both in neighbouring Slovenia and in other countries. Based on what I've said, I'd like to conclude that this is a test, that this is a European Union civilization achievement, that it should be implemented here and here, you give your bill, let this proposal go to another reading. I will end up with this and I will remember one step in the public of our secretary of state here, who said when our law would appear in June of the month, that summer is not the time to pass this law. I hope winter, and maybe spring will finally deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20358	Thank you. And individually, the distinguished representative Biserka Vranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20359	Dear Vice President, I thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I must say that the debate on the proposal of the Law on the treatment of infertility and fertilisation of biochemical aid is, in fact, very symptomatic of me as advocates of this proposal tells me about who we are, what we are and who we are in this House. It's not up to us to discuss the medical section for and against this or that, but actually this is about our mental frame, give us something we want, give us something we can and give us the courage to go into something. The debate we had today shows that if we wanted anything, then we'll make a quick deal, and if we don't, then we'll find a thousand reasons and an argument against it. We simply send from this House to couples and to those who have problems in this field that regulates this law, we send a message, dear gentlemen, you have a problem, he is your problem, and choose to solve it yourself, even if it is in Slovenia or another European country. I can't really understand the fact that we're 30 years ago and in that so-called. Yugoslavia could be in the ranks of European countries that have solved this problem in one way really modern, satisfying way and which, over 30 years, has shown that there is indeed a reason why we have brought it and that it follows trends in biochemical and medical activity. We're actually scared today. We have moral norms, we have ethical norms, we have legal dilemmas and we have all the problems we have in this law, but the basic problem is that with all these dilemmas and problems, we don't really have political will. If we had political will, then we would have passed this law, arranged it today as best we know and can, and eventually over time we would have repaired it and complemented what we would have said to new trends that are really in medicine very quickly and it is certain that the course of 5 to 10 years opens up possibilities for large development processes, great opportunities that we didn't even dream of 20, 30 years ago. However, we can, for example, pass a law in the House that has not yet been applied, and we already have amendments and additions, but we simply do not bring and close our eyes to problems, we simply do not want to open the debate, and ultimately it is extremely important that it is proposed by the SDP. Personally, I wouldn't mind if HDZ suggested it, and I believe that it would be much easier to agree, but we would suggest it and put it in the parliamentary procedure we simply have to. Otherwise we're going to cough for all other countries, and we like to compare ourselves with European levels, we always like to be the first somewhere, we're the first in organ transplants, we can do very demanding operations, we use very modern methods in all areas of medical science, and we just shut this down. We are simply hostages to our own fears, our own ignorance and our own insecurity. It is very symptomatic that this House, among other things, may have the highest doctor and person of the medical profession, and that we are constantly refusing to pass this very law that would show that this House really has the most doctors and all those who are employed in medicine for a reason and that this is actually one of the very good and great progress of this country in this field. Until we realize that and until we realize in fact that we should be the ones who open the processes, we should be the ones who follow the trends, who open up legal and other possibilities to all citizens for the problems they have in this state and solve here, until then we will be the hostages of our own ignorance and impotence, and eventually we will always have the opportunity to cover ourselves with religious, national and some other reasons, but how time will speak for or against. So I don't really think that passing this law proves the impotence and indifference of all of us here who simply can't understand or we don't want time to go no matter what we think of it, that the problems in the state exist, no matter what we push them under the carpet, and that opening this system would benefit both us and the state, especially those who will be users of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20360	Thank you. And five minutes on behalf of the club, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20361	On behalf of the SDP club, I would like to say that our primary task here is in Parliament and you in the government to solve citizens' problems and to pass laws that can solve their problems. Today, we have tried to offer one solution to medically assisted fertilisation and as we see it could be helped to treat citizens who are treated with infertility, which only with the help of medical help can come to children. It was said here that this law goes into a lot of things and the fact that it is so, this law simply thins people into a lot of segments but it should also be said that this law puts certain frameworks and allows people who cannot, without medical help insemination to get children to know exactly how to say the rules of the game in this medically assisted fertilization, that the rules of the game know not only citizens who expect help from medicine but also doctors who are involved in the medically assisted fertilization process. So we allow people with this law everything medicine can do for them today and it is up to them of course to decide whether to engage in a medically assisted fertilization or not. The decision, however, is on marriage partners, but it is on individuals. The point is, some colleagues here have even described it, about very difficult procedures primarily for a woman. Many of the experts we have spoken with during the preparation of this law have also warned that certain conversations need to be conducted with people in order to direct them to all that awaits them in the procedures of medically aided insemination. However, it is a job that does the profession of doing so or helping parents decide whether to undergo such a procedure or not, but it is our job to ensure the legal possibility, therefore, and all that medicine can do at this time to help our citizens. I hope that the law that is being prepared will be such that it will allow our citizens to reach children here in Croatia through medical help, and I am afraid that perhaps the fact that you have not reached out to the finished law of 2004 actually opens up one fear that your law will be much more restrictive and conservative than the one we had the opportunity to see only unfortunately in the Croatian Parliament. And here's another time it might be good not to waste too much energy on experts or you in the 2004 law ministry is absolutely acceptable for us in the SDP. He is also acceptable to most professions because a good part of the profession worked not for a short time, therefore, in the making of that law. I hope that this law that you're going to let go as you said in maybe a dozen days' time in public debate will be the law, that he won't be some sort of draft at Power Point because then it's really hard to discuss it. I think it's much fairer to make a legal proposal like we did and, of course, on the basis of that bill, to listen to concrete proposals and remarks, so all of you here today who have made observations and said that you agree with something or disagree or disagree. I think it's actually the law that comes into the parliamentary procedure that's the only good and proper way to come up with the best solutions for our citizens in a joint debate. And I therefore call on you to accept one conclusion which the SDP Club referred to in the procedure, which is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to prepare by the end of this year and to send its proposal for a law on medically assisted fertilisation, but I also ask you to support that this SDP law, as everyone here has said, goes to another reading quite well, and then, together with the law that will come from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, let us discuss one more time all proposals and come to the best possible solutions for our citizens primarily for these 15% of married couples who are being treated for infertility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20362	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, the esteemed Ante Zvonimir Golem State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20363	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Let me say a few things. The law that determined or laid down regulation in the field of medically assisted fertilisation was from 1978 and in the 30 years of the existence of this law that did not regulate this area well because it is clear to all but it was thus born here in the Assembly of 15 thousand children. What happened then is that it suddenly became a burning problem, children are no longer born, these procedures do not happen because there is no legislative framework. How, then, did 15 thousand children come into birth in those 30 years? Obviously, the legislative framework existed. He wasn't good, but he existed. Why do I say that? I say next. In 2004, a legal proposal was made, and you all said it here, and that's exactly right. And the legislative proposal went into debate so that it would also be said afterwards that they were not the best solutions, they were not responding to the directive, I will repeat, 23 of 2004, Directive 17 of 2006 governing literally the area of the area. And now, what's going on. The motion is withdrawn. When Minister Darko Milinovic took over the Ministry of Health at the beginning of this year and gave his interview in the press 26.1. he made it clear that he would mark his mandate with all the necessary things to arrange health care from the health reform to the adoption of all the regulations, regardless of how you classified them, as difficult and light, as political and non-political and all the rest because all the time he said there is no ours, your proposal but there is a good and bad proposal. So that today's proposal came after that with the attempt we discussed in June, is also true where, on behalf of the Ministry of Health, I was really me and said loud and clear another fact that no one had disputed, that the proposal that was then presented and that we have here today on the table, in fact, a proposal from 2004 from which certain good solutions were drawn and those bad solutions that were left inside were left or worsened. I accepted what was said on behalf of the promoter not to be done by the promoter but rather the profession that prepared it, which it prepared in 2004. And that's what I said in the debate today, so we have the same experts, the same profession, but they have two different solutions. It is obvious that you are right that this House and that politics will determine what is more appropriate for Croatian society than the solution that experts will set, and it can be different so as already seen here. We have also already said then that the minister has announced that here at this time of year he will come up with a proposal and it is not true that every time in this House, when it is on the agenda of this Parliament that we say he will come out, this is today the first time on the agenda of this plenary session that I repeat the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support. Not for whom the proposal is authored, as the author of the proposal is Croatian experts, but because the proposal does not solve those problems that caused the medically assisted fertilisation in Croatia. And I'm going to remind you of those who said today that are we going to believe or are we always afraid of abuse? We don't need to be afraid, she was. In the Republic of Croatia, abuse in this area took place. It has also led to the insecurity of citizens in this process, and it has also led to the question of what has happened? And that's in the area of cell storage, in the area of deposit keeping, in the area of the freezing of embryos, the disappearance of the register. Court disputes are under way today. We don't even know how it's gonna end. So they were. And if there is therefore a law that is old, which does not meet the modern challenges of time we fully agree. But there are also modern challenges of medical science that say, "There is yet another better method of cloning" It is a method that is medically and scientifically recognised in the world. Don't! I'll say something. And now I'm going to ask you a question. Whether or not we will be forced into that direction or we will say: Gentlemen, we support medically assisted insemination and we will prepare a regulation that will experience this same debate in this same Croatian House that will be more quality than this regulation, which will also make it impossible for us to doubt the existence of abuse as we had, and that is the only practical condition for us to use modern knowledge and to prevent abuse. And that's the only basic thing to say. And that is why we will not support, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot support the conclusion proposed here for a purely simple reason, that in the next debate that will come, it will say that it was not created as one of the consequences of the policy being conducted in the Government but because the proposal for the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament forced the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a regulation and the Government of the Republic of Croatia said: The regulation will be passed. Because the text of the regulation proposed is the following: It is up to the government to prepare for parliamentary procedure by the end of this year. You don't need the government to be in charge of this. The government will do what the Government's duty is and will bring before the Croatian Parliament a proposal as it is said here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20364	Thank you. We've got two, three, I haven't seen what you're picking up. You're the one who's Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. No, no, slow down, slow down... Take it easy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, I'll write it down. No, first of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Hanzek. [[Intruder: Mirjana Ferić-Vac.]] Now let's take it in a row. First of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative, Ivan Hanžek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20365	... All questions are regulated by the conduct of our parliamentary representatives. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] Unfortunately, there is no regulated behaviour of the proposing representative. Mr. Golem again with makeup and performance demeans the parliamentary representatives I accept, I stop, I stop and I take notice. [[Intruder: Sorry it's not, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] I accept the warning...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20366	Please, we're not giving any warning but you can't say something that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're going to correct an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Feric-Vac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20367	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, look, we all have to answer here and stand behind what we're saying. It is not good, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, that the representatives of the ministries bring into context... /Intruder: Sorry that the correction of the incorrect... /... [[You don't understand.]] Sir, Mr. Golem was talking about cloning. Here in no text or attachments any word of cloning. Even the representatives of the ministries cannot speak beyond the context. So please take care of that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20368	Please don't talk to me about running a session because you can only object to me having an injury. You've come forward to correct the incorrect allegations. You didn't have the correction of an incorrect quote and don't do it. Please! Let's move on. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20369	Thank you very much. So I am correcting the incorrect assumption that someone is therefore thinking of Parliament, or possibly the opposition, putting pressure on the government to pass some kind of regulation. I have to admit, I'm surprised. With all the haughtiness of Mr. Secretary of State that he does not know, that he does not know that the regulations in this country and the laws are not passed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia but by this Parliament. I mean, that's basic knowledge. That's what kids in first grade high school know. And I'm surprised the secretary of state repeatedly mentions some pressure from Parliament on the government when it comes to regulation. I guess it should be the other way around. I guess we're the ones who bring What do you mean? [[Thank you. Thank you. It's no longer a correction to an incorrect quote.]] What do you mean? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20370	Thank you, Your Honor. This is no longer for correcting an incorrect quote. [[Intruder: Don't.]] Please make a nice correction to the incorrect quote of the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. [[Intruder: And in the end. Okay, I'll take it for last.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20371	I quote the secretary of state: "The government should not be in charge of preparing." False Secretary of State. It's okay. It's okay. We live in a parliamentary democracy where the government corresponds to Parliament. Parliament can require the government to do something. That is exactly the kind of proposal the SDP put forward in the procedure. It will be a test of your personal credibility and credibility of this government to accept this conclusion on Friday or not to accept it. If you don't accept it, it means that you've been deluding the public here all day when you promised that the government would make a bill at the most recent time. That means you've simply fooled the public. It's a test of your credibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20372	Thank you. And the closing word on behalf of the promoter has a distinguished representative, Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20373	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I can't look back at the secretary of state because there's no secretary of state who's going to determine whether or not we're going to accept that conclusion. The HDZ will probably refuse, but... That he's not your club boss or your party boss so he can order you to do what you're gonna do and how you're gonna vote tomorrow at this conclusion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, when we talk about cloning in this law, it is clearly said that cloning is forbidden in Croatia. Therefore, everything is clear and should not be intimidated by the people by cloning if there are no other arguments to support why we are for this law or why we are not for this law. In Croatia... In the last 30 years, he gave birth to 15,000 children, and if he had a legal framework, he could give birth to 20 and 25 000 children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since 1978, in the last 30 years, the number of procedures of medically assisted insemination has been dropping, and because one has no legal framework, and there seems to be no will for the ruling to improve because they are clearly influenced by certain Croatian society members who simply do not want this procedure to take effect in Croatia, so in 1999, Petrova alone had 2,000 procedures. All of Croatia somewhere around 4,000, and now we have 1400 last year. No medically assisted insemination procedure was performed in Split in 2007. This year, too. Every year, according to estimates of the medical profession of about 1000 women from Croatia with or without a partner who cannot start naturally leaving Croatia abroad, leaves for one reason, leaving to get pregnant. Maribor, Ljubljana, Vienna, Prague, are the main European destinations in which clinics occur due to a wide range of procedures that cannot be obtained in Croatia, but our experts are able and able to apply these procedures in Croatia. The reason is there's no legal framework. As you expected all this to be paid fat, so let's say one procedure at Maribor General Hospital on average is around 20,000 kuna, while in Prague it is only necessary to allocate 500 for the seed donation, and for the egg station about 3 and a half thousand euros. But in those countries it's regulated. There is a law in these countries, and it is clear who has donated, who is being donated, and what funds are being allocated for it. However, women or couples are forced into Croatia because of the total chaos in this area to go out, go to foreign countries, and some who do not have the means simply cannot go out and you must be aware that they do not have all 20,000 kuna, 3 and a half thousand euros plus housing costs there, do not have the means to make it. This leads to a decline in the number of live births in Croatia. They're falling for other things, but with this procedure, we could reach that level at a greater limit. And Croatia is at the bottom of a scale of 15 European countries with only 1.3% of children born using this method. Mr. Secretary of State, in the 1990s, it was about 2.5 to 3%. Now we're down to 1.3%. Denmark comes first with 4.2%. And you know who's in second place? Slovenia at 3.5%. The ones that are '96. come to Croatia to learn medically assisted fertilisation, which our experts have learned to pass on that method and they are now ahead of us. The third is Finland, where about 3% of children are born annually thanks to this procedure. Until legal irregularities three years ago, sperm banks also disappeared in Croatia. Technical conditions exist, but samples for the needs of heterogeneous fertilisation are not taken even though there is a yearly need for around 400 donations of semen and egg cells. Abuse is now possible. And why is that gone? Because colleagues are afraid of being accused of abuse because there's no register, no stepson, no standards. Now there are possible abuses. They were with this law, with the introduction of standards, with the introduction of registers, with the introduction of procedures. The abuses are impossible and this is what Mr. Secretary of State says wrong, because in this law as it will be in the law that must be passed under the directives stated by Mr. Secretary of State. This law is in line with these directives, and if there is a chance to compare two bill proposals in 90% of the cases, they will be identical, and they will not be identical in something else in which I will end my presentation. Why wasn't there any law so far? Why was the 2004 law withdrawn from the procedure? I was on a round table in Split, so we had the opportunity to cross the spear and representatives of the Croatian Bishop's Conference which is well-deserved to why these laws are not there, neither will they, or will be then, and we must bring it because the European Union is a directive and we must bring it. And thank God that there is a European Union, because if there was no European Union they would never pass this law. The Croatian Bishop's Conference has long warned of the crime of artificial insemination. It cannot be separated from that term, and for example Dr. Spiro Marasovic, the head of the Department of Moral Theology of the Split Catholic-Godology Faculty and a member of the Ethics Committee of the Ministry of Health, has already warned that this SDP legal proposal does not protect enough human embryos, and that, according to him, it is the most acceptable conservative Italian law for the Catholic Church, which only allows women to be introduced into the body by three fertilised egg cells without freezing the embryos. There is neither acceptable nor heterologous insemination that implies the donation of ova or semen cells, because as he pointed out allows biological polygamy. It is also not satisfied with the SDP's proposal that in the event of an egg cell donation as a child's mother the woman who gave birth to a child, because in his words she only borrowed the womb. This is the position of the Catholic Church, and based on this attitude of the Catholic Church, I can already read the law that you, as the parliamentary majority, will go with this proposal. There will be no hyperstimulation in the proposal, there will be no contamination of the embryos, there will be no donation of the seed of the egg cell. This law will regulate that only normal ovulation can be taken by one egg cell along with the seed cell and returned to women, into the female body. It is a very conservative law that we can expect, but it is the backdrop of both professions and consciousness and Croatia as a European country. But we will likely see the light of the day of 2009 somewhere before the end when we have to meet all the standards that stand before us, so that law will have to be passed. But here's the stenogram. Listen to my words. The law will look like that. 90% of the things will be in this law by the national commission, by the register, by the law. But it will be within the law of restrictions that there is no hyperstimulation, no freezing, no egg and semen donations. It will only be possible to take one egg cell, because as you know, the natural female cycle is that it has one egg cell. Therefore, it will only be possible in this way, and according to the profession, this method is far below the success of these other methods applied in the world. It is unacceptable for us to wait so long, but obviously we will have to wait until somewhere in mid-2009 and because of legal irregularity couples in Croatian hospitals will wait for the proceedings for more than a year. Forced people will go abroad, be in debt, and some of them, unfortunately, will not be able to have such a wanted child because of lack of funds. I am sorry, too, but there is no awareness that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia need a consensus. There's so much emphasis on consensus, but here's what consensus you want. Therefore, the SDP has launched an initiative, launched a debate and God help you with what kind of law you're going to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20374	Thank you. We also have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There seems to be a little more Nostradamus in the SDP than we thought, and then Mrsic knows exactly what will happen to future proposals that will come from the government or the parliamentary majority, but let's put that aside. I'll correct the quote that you said the secretary of state was terrified of cloning. He wasn't scared. He just said that it's a scientifically well-founded method, but unfortunately, abuses are what they are. The other thing is, it's interesting that you think of what we're making as our arguments in the back of the proposals and you've had your chance. The 1978 law, first of all, not to mention communism, that you could change in communism because you are heirs to that party. Secondly, you had a chance in 2000 to 2003 when you had 2/3 of the majority of you had a chance to change that reverse law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20376	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20377	Why didn't you change it when you had the chance? Thus, it was more than 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20378	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20379	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20380	Correction of an incorrect quote... Don't throw it away. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20381	A fellow Mrs.... please? Everyone's talking in their voice. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20382	Please don't throw it out of the bench. Dear Representative Bagaric, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20383	My friend Mrs., allow me to correct your two guilty allegations. One, when you said the church declared the medically assisted insemination a crime. Well, that's not true. Absolutely incorrect. She said, so the people of the church said that crime is all that goes as an unwanted outcome of this method and all abuse of this method. So we talked about how to correct these abuses, etc. So that's one thing. Another thing I'm also correcting, you've been very, let me tell you, brought down on the Secretary of State. You said it wasn't yours that you here prescribe us what we... Or we won't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, he represents the government. Therefore, on behalf of the Government, he can tell what is acceptable to the government, which is not and thus express his position. In his more winding, but never a arrogant step he said so, and I think you've really pointed arrows at him quite needlessly and undeservedly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20384	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20385	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct a colleague who says the government has no will to handle this. You yourself have heard from Mr. Secretary that the government is working on the law and I personally and as a woman and as a medical worker I am so that this law is passed and that this area is arranged because this law has both morally and legally unspeakable things that you have seen, and one of them is, I will just tell you that today is the International Day on the Rights of the Child, a child born in a marriage where there is an infertile man, and then it's about the recitation and at the same time...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20386	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20387	Puts motherhood against the right of a child to a father. Not to talk about a death plot. From this law it is visible that it can also be used in scientific research...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20388	Dear MPs...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20389	So they're really moral-ethical legal dilemmas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20390	This is no longer a correction to an incorrect quote. It's already a catchphrase. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20391	Proposal for a law on the treatment of infertility and fertilisation procedures with biomedical aid, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 122. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: The proposal for a law on the treatment of infertility and fertilisation procedures with biomedical aid is not accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal was accepted by most votes, 68 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 39 against. The SDP representative club proposes to adopt the following conclusion: It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare for parliamentary proceedings by the end of this year to send its proposal for a law on medically assisted fertilisation. The government does not accept this conclusion. I'm putting this conclusion to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Everyone's talking in their voice. Please! Can we... So, the SDP Representatives Club proposes to draw a conclusion that I have read. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This conclusion didn't go through, 45 for, 8 abstentions, 53 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20392	We move to the second item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the rules of cooperation relating to the European Commission's financial assistance to the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of assistance under component V. (IPARD) Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA), emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 187 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. The amendments are... A little quiet, a little. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the proposal... Just a minute. Your Honor, Agent... Here you go, but it's not common during... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20393	When you don't follow our communication. Mr. Vice President, I suggest we take 2,3,4,5.6 joint debates and save a little time and it goes a little bit more expedient. I think that would be useful, because I see why we should waste so much time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20394	Mr. Representative, we have considered and according to the Rules of Procedure we can connect the 2nd and 3rd, 4, and 5th respectively. One and six, we can't for the simple reason that these are other rapporteurs here on the one hand and on the other hand, which is still the difference in matter. Therefore, the 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th we will unite, propose, and this 2nd and 6th must work separately. So, does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? There's no need. Please, nice. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20395	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. IPA is the new pre-accession assistance programme that the Republic of Croatia has available in the period from 2007 to full membership, which we will use with the already existing projects from previous programmes that are still under way, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD. IPA consists of five parts of which are the fifth part of which we are now discussing, intended for support in the area of agriculture and rural development or IPARD, and the total amount of aid intended for this area in the financial period from 2007 to 2010 is 102.9 million euros, i.e. around 740.9 million kuna. In addition to these funds, the Croatian side through the state budget and the end-user from its own resources needs to provide a certain amount for approved projects, which ultimately means that the amount of projects from the IPARD will be even greater. It is also a special feature of this programme that in a much larger part than it has been before or is still the case in other EU assistance programmes, that end-users are economics or local self-government. The area in which the funds under this programme will be able to be channelled is defined by a strategic document, etc. The IPARD Plan, i.e. the plan for agriculture and development, developed and adopted for the period from 2007 to 2013; For example, three priority areas are defined, improving market efficiency and implementing European standards, preparing actions for the implementation of agricultural and environmental measures and local rural development strategies and rural development, improving and developing rural infrastructure, and developing and diversifying rural economic activities. The specificity of management of this part of IPA and the case was the same in the previous programme for this area of SAPARD is that there is greater responsibility at the institution responsible for the management of the project, which is in this case the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. And it's much bigger than if that's the case with institutions that run other parts of IPA. This fund acts according to the same principles or very similar principles of governance, as well as the funds used by the Member States when they are full members, which means that the procedures and the whole business are more demanding. For this reason, we have received such a special agreement for this part of IPA, which is why we cannot talk unitedly about all the programmes, the software parts of IPA that we are going to talk about today, because this programme has a special agreement on IPAD cooperation rules. Namely, everyone else has a so-called. the framework agreement adopted by the Parliament last year. This kind of agreement that we're talking about today, the Parliament brought to this High House two years ago. As far as the text of the agreement is concerned, it is a rather standardised text of which other countries have or will have similar assistance programmes during the pre-accession period. Therefore, the agreement is very detailed in the technical, legal and administrative requirements it has to comply with in the implementation and management of the IPARD. It is therefore extremely important to confirm this agreement that within the shortest possible time limit a competent institution, which is on the Croatian side of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development within which two functionally separate units work, namely one governing body or the language of this Agreement is the administrative directorate, i.e. at our Directorate for Rural Development, while the Executive Body is the Directorate for Structural and Market Support in Agriculture, i.e. under this IPARD agreement. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance shall have the role of the National Fund headed by the National Convincing Officer as a body responsible for the management and supervision of financial resources involved in the use of the European Union assistance programme and the AFKOS Anti-Fraud Department. With the confirmation of this agreement for the use of IPARD, it is also necessary to successfully complete the accreditation process. This process is close and this will mean formal confirmation or permission of the European Commission's competent services for the work of our IPARD institutions. Finally, I would like to emphasise that it is an agreement that will allow Croatia to benefit from between 25 and 26 million euros of grants annually, that these funds will enable the introduction of a standard of European acquis in the area of agriculture and rural areas and not less important, and will contribute to the development of rural areas and ultimately allow for a good preparation for the use of structural funds intended for agriculture, fisheries and rural areas when the Republic of Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. For all of these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community club strongly supports the adoption of a proposal for this law to confirm the agreement in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20396	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20397	6, Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on rules for cooperation in relation to the European Commission's financial assistance to the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of assistance under component V. (IPARD) of the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA), emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 187. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted by 103 votes in favour, or unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20398	I propose that, in accordance with Article 223(3), Rules of Procedure, let us bring the debate together for points 3, 4 and 5. - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities for a multiannual operational programme "Protection of the Environment" for Community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 189, - Proposal for a Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities for a multiannual operational programme "Region competitiveness" for Community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 191, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities for a multiannual operational programme "Transport" for Community Assistance under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 192, if no one minds, then we're going to a united debate about these three points. It's all an emergency procedure. P.Z. is all three draft laws, which have been implemented by committees for, relevant committees. Representative of the Proposer State Secretary of the Central State Office for the Development Strategy and Coordination of the European Union Funds, Mr Hrvoje Dolenc will further explain the proposal for these laws. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20399	Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. In short, the United Point on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities for a multiannual operational programme, environmental protection, transport and regional competitiveness for community assistance within the IPA component, the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance in Croatia. In short, August 27, 2007. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities have concluded a framework agreement on rules for cooperation in relation to the financial assistance of the European Community to the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance or popular IPAs which appear as such in all documents. The Framework Agreement lays down general rules of cooperation and the implementation of European Community assistance under this programme that it is a technical, legal and administrative framework to implement funding measures in the Republic of Croatia. On 29 March 2007, the Republic of Croatia submitted a proposal to the European Communities for multi-annual operational programmes "Environmental Protection", "Transport" and "Region competitiveness", and on 29 November 2007 and 7 December 2007. The European Commission has made a decision approving the proposed programmes for co-financing of the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. On 29 October and 3 November 2008, decisions of the European Commission which confer powers on the Republic of Croatia to manage these operational programmes were adopted. So these three operational programs. On 6 November, the Director of the General Regional Policy Administration signed a financing agreement with the European Commission and 10. 11. on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, my smallness in Zagreb. What is important to say is that all these agreements bear certain financial influences on the Republic of Croatia, that is, the budget of the Republic of Croatia because all these programmes require co-financing for all projects that are approved through these operational programmes. I'll just list the amounts related to these operational programs. Therefore, under the “Region competitiveness” operational programme, the total amount of the operational programme for 2007 and 2009 is 339.4 million kuna, of which IPA provides grants of 254.5 million kuna for the rest of the funds of €84.8 million is provided by the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Ministry of Regional Development of Forestry and Water Economy, and in the period 2009-2012. For the Operational Programme "Protection of the Environment", the operational programme is total value of 513.6 million kuna, the value foreseen by the European Union's gift to the Republic of Croatia, so the grants amount to 385.2 million kuna and national co-financing is 128.4 million kuna. Those national co-financing funds shall be provided through the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning and Construction and the Ministry of Regional Development of Forestry and Water Economy, as well as the financial plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. And finally for the multi-annual operational programme "Transport", the financial means, i.e. the total value of the operational programme is 553,8 million kuna, IPA grants 373,9 million kuna, and national co-financing of 179,9 million kuna. And this will be ensured in the state budget of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. What is important is why an emergency procedure is required. Therefore, the financing agreement shall enter into force on the day on which the Commission and the European Community receive written notice that the internal legal requirements of the Republic of Croatia and its entry into force have been met and that the payment of the advances by the Commission of the European Community which should be paid already during 2008. So we have another December of this year, and therefore there is a legitimate interest in its soon-to-be effective. Here's my brief introduction on the bill's proposals to confirm the financing agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20400	Thank you very much. The committees? Legislative? Finance? State budget, European integration, maritime, transport, connections? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go. Three on behalf of the HDZ Club. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20401	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The three of us will be given three points to share this minute. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities for a Multiannual Operational Programme for Environment Protection, to assist the community in the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance as part of the component of regional development in Croatia. In fact, this bill confirms Croatia's readiness and ability to use IPA funds in the best possible way possible and continues, of course, to a framework agreement that the Parliament confirmed on 3 October last year, so in 2007. On 29 October this year, therefore, only a few weeks ago, a decision was adopted by the European Commission, which, as the Secretary of State said, confers powers on the management of the Operational Programme for Environmental Protection. In fact, the operational programme for environmental protection is a multi-annual programming document relating to the period of the current period of course from 2007 to 2009. This Agreement shall specify the conditions necessary for the delivery of assistance to the European Community, as well as the rules and procedures relating to the payment of this aid, as well as the conditions under which such assistance will be managed. And now something about the very essence of this agreement. The strategic objectives of the operational programme for environmental protection are to protect and improve the natural and living environment in Croatia, and the environmental potential as key elements for future development while at the same time strengthening the sustainability of the energy system, in particular by increasing energy efficiency and promoting sustainable energy solutions. Basic tasks or better put priorities are to develop waste management infrastructure for the establishment of a complete waste management system in Croatia, then protect Croatia's water resources through improved water supply and total waste water management systems, and as a third, I would say a significant priority is to provide technical assistance to strengthen the administrative capacity and strengthen the institutional capacity of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of interventions which, when we become members of the European Union, will therefore be financed very quickly from the Cohesion Fund and from the European Regional Development Fund. This part seems extremely important to me because we really need to prepare all the institutions of local self-government units through regional self-government, so the county and, of course, all the state institutions and all the agencies and all the funds in order to respond administratively to the requirements that are being put in procedures that are not at all simple. All those who know the procedures concerning these programmes know that the process is very demanding and, of course, it is within the competence of the European Commission delegation and is constantly monitored by it. It is important, of course, that the implementation of this operational programme will take place according to the so-called ". a decentralised model to be monitored by a delegation of the European Commission, as I just said. What is important today is the total value of the operational programme for environmental protection from 2007 to 2009 which is 71 million 333 thousand euros, i.e. 513 million and 597 thousand and 600 kuna. The value confirmed by the European Commission's gift is therefore the grant that will be allocated to Croatia by the European Union at 53 million 499 thousand and 750 euros or in the Kunian equivalent of 385 million 198 million and 200 kuna and the value of the Croatian share, so the part remaining for participation in Croatia is 17 million 833 thousand and 250 euros, respectively, 128 million 399 thousand kuna, which should be foreseen in the state budget as well as in the budget of the units of regional and local self-government and, of course, in the budget of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, and of course, this relates to the period before us for 2009 until 2012. Here, I think it is quite clear that this instrument, which is available to us by the European Union, will very much help us in the next period in order to also adapt to the standards and standards of the European Union but of course to improve environmental protection and protect everything that is necessary to protect us because, as we have already been said many times, we have inherited from our ancestors what we have in Croatia but we have also borrowed it from future generations and we must indeed be responsible for this. And this aid is indeed in significant millions of funds coming from the European Union and is very important on this path. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this proposal for a law confirming the agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20402	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadic also on behalf of the HDZ representative club, part two.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20403	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm just going to look back at this point on the 5th operational program Transport. This programme is a multiannual programme document that speaks of the use of IPA financial pre-accession assistance while the current transport programme refers to the period 2007 to 2009. The financing agreement shall contain provisions on the basis of which the Republic of Croatia accepts Community assistance but also agrees to comply with the rules and procedures laid down for the payment of funds contained in the Annexes to the basic agreement. The very name of the operational program traffic points to what the money is intended here. And of course the greatest impact is expected in modernising railway lines and preparing projects for future investments in modernising and improving conditions in the internal navigation sector because we currently do not have enough well-prepared projects in this sector during this operational period. It would be better to achieve a reduction in passenger and goods travel, as well as an increase in traffic safety, although the word aid points out once again it is important to stress that the adoption of this agreement constitutes a legal basis for the free use of pre-accession assistance financial resources. Of course, with this pre-accession assistance, it is also necessary to ensure the financial contribution of the Republic of Croatia to co-finance the implementation of the operational programme. This will be ensured in the 2009-2012 budget period for the programme under this operational transport programme in 2007-2009. In total, about 554 million kunas from which the IPA programme will provide 374 million kuna while the Republic of Croatia will provide 180 million kuna in the budget period from 2009-2012 on the items of the RES, i.e. the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here, therefore, it is important to accept this agreement in the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible by emergency procedure so that we can start withdrawing money. And that's enough reason for the HDZ Club to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20404	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Buric Pejcinovic also on behalf of the HDZ club, part three.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20405	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. So here's what colleagues have been talking about so far would cover what the ISPA programme has so far covered, means environmental protection and transport, and this added that third component of 3C concerning regional competitiveness to the IPA programme. I must admit that when it came as an idea in Croatia, there were a lot of questions about what this means regionally, whether it is regionally within the meaning of the European Union, so countries are regionally or are within each country of the region. So it turns out it's still about this other one. And therefore, the European Union has gone into this part because it has been recognised that, in the context of the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy and in the context of the development of uniform development, which is, in fact, the objective of the Cohesion Fund and of many other European Union funds, it is necessary to work on all areas within a country, so that we, too, in the pre-accession period, have been given the opportunity to work on the competitiveness of those parts of Croatia which are not equally developed as the most developed parts. Therefore, this programme includes ten counties listed here, which will have the opportunity to use a total of 47m euros in 2007-2009 or from the IPA section that is 35.35m euros in grants. The idea of working on this came through that one big operational program that we all got together in these materials and about 100 pages of which makes up the operational program. So, on a hundred pages and I think it's good for all those who want to spend some of these programs in their counties to see well what this part of the money in Croatia can be spent on. In fact, one of the ideas was in Croatia that this was used for those projects prepared under other earlier European Union projects. In the CARDS and PHARE program, we had some projects that were just working on project preparation in these counties. And here's what's actually a great opportunity for all these projects that have come to some stage to be realized through this segment of IPA because it's going to be useful multiple times. Therefore, those funds previously spent on project development will not be wasteful and, on the other hand, since the projects that have been approved at various levels are certainly about quality and important projects for the counties, so that they will contribute and develop so to the overall regional development of the counties in which this project is to be maintained. But it doesn't matter less, and I don't think it's unnecessary every time we talk over and over again except that we get a grant, except that we have concrete projects that will help in some districts of development we learn what to do when Croatia is in full membership? In this case, for this part, it will be the Regional Development Fund. So one of the structural funds and it's very important to take care of that too. So we need in all of Croatia in these counties but also in other counties people and institutions and companies and individuals and legal persons who will be able to use these much larger funds that will be available to us. So that's what we need to worry about when we talk about these projects, and that's why I'm pleading and that, in fact, at the county level, in particular these 10 counties are saying more that indeed these funds would be withdrawn for all of these reasons that we've talked about. There are three areas where funds will be channelled in this part of IPA. Two are related to investment and I think that today's economic, economic problems and all other financial problems do not matter if we have a project like this. So we have a direct opportunity to help small and medium-sized enterprises. We have the opportunity to develop therefore an investment, investment environment and, of course, for the development that comes. Therefore, measure 1 provides for business infrastructure, business infrastructure development and the holder of that part of the job is the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Another priority that is also investment is strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. One measure is to improve the business climate, the other is to transfer technology and support services for emerging knowledge-based companies. I don't think anything should contribute to this either, that it is clear that in the context of competitiveness and in fact participation and Croatian in the implementation of the Lisbon strategy it is clear that knowledge is very important. And the third part is certainly technical assistance that helps manage this operational programme, which is not irrelevant, therefore, except that we have good projects that are important in any case and that we do them well. Here's to the end, I think this is one project, one part of the IPA programme that works at the same time and in cohesion and competitiveness. So it prepares Croatia under those different conditions for membership. I would especially point out here that, the other condition, which is therefore economical, which speaks about the possibility of the market economy that we already are, but in the other part, which may not be talked about enough about developing competitiveness. So Croatia must be prepared to deal with the challenges that will bring the opening of the market, and I think that this project, as far as it may not be the largest of all, makes one important part of the component, because it will refer to areas that surely need the largest aid in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20406	Thank you. Club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20407	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. It's clear that these agreements that we're talking about here today are to be accepted. These agreements give Croatia some money from the European Union. It is not small money for Croatia at these times when it must be... de facto consciousness of zero percent this is, how do I put it, almost a melanoma to the wound. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All these projects that are so run ahead, I don't know our counties, the competent ministries are also praiseworthy. As far as this 187 law is concerned, which is the IPA programme for Croatia should come or enter Croatia from 2007 to 2013, EUR 589.9 million should be entered in Croatia. In 2007, we received EUR 140.5 million, and for example in 2010, this amount will rise to EUR 154.2 million. This refers to this, this transition aid, cross-border cooperation, regional development, human potential, rural development. With this money, Croatia must also attach certain own funds. But right now it's about this second set of laws, Law 189 that tangs environmental protection. The total value under this law is 71 million EUR 333 000, or that is some 513.5 million kuna plus that amount of EUR 71.3 million, should also be added to the European Union's €53.5 million gift and Croatia must co-finance those funds of EUR 17.8 million. What, though, is the point of this program under number 189 or the law to be more specific? We finance this money in Rijeka or above Rijeka, in Volosko area, not Voloski, uh, I can't remember now, Mariščina, a waste dump from €8.7 million, then 7.8 million is financed by a waste dump in Pula more precisely Kaštjun. Then here we have Letčevica 8.7 million Euros and there are also these programmes in water supply in the Slavonski Brod area of EUR 15.4 million and water supplies in the city of Knin amounting to EUR 10.4 million. Understandably, these are resources. As I was saying, it is a melem in the wound in some way to the Republic of Croatia but also to the local environments that these funds have to contribute. What is also important and that is what should be said that the Croatian government is firmly behind these projects. De facto we can say that once this agreement is ratified this money is secured. So the contracts are already signed. It's hard to jump out of it, it's just waiting for Friday when the contracts needed to be ratified most of the time. What are these financial arrangements saying, among other things, or what do they mean? I will not speak now on this occasion for the Marine near the river, but I will speak for Kashtjun which is located not far from Pula. All this politics, for example, that Kashtjun, as a waste dump, will close, that the reception of people from Medulin by the minister will be moved to represent a play for naives. It's all about entertaining the audience, politicizing, all pre-arranged, all agreed that the funds were provided I said about these programmes between the Government, the European Union. Like I said, the funds are secured here. It is clear that they also know all this in various NGOs protesting certain landfills, all of this is known by people in the Istrian opposition, understandably to the County of Istria who is working to secure that money. All that's known to the MPs from the left all the way up to the right. We all also agree that this dump I'm talking about only Kashtjun in Pula is to be rehabilitated. This can't go any further. If we don't solve this problem in Pula at that dump, we can only expect that there will be an ecoicide. On the other hand, Medulin municipality, so the neighbor of Pula, I don't know their leadership is protesting. But if they were principled then they'd also principled us as Kastyun is unacceptable. But therefore we will no longer put our garbage on that dump, but we will treat our garbage in the area of our community. I can say one more thing. We will not be in the area of our municipality, but we will drive our garbage the way I do not know Opatija or Rijeka or Trieste or Graca or Vienna or what I know Munich, Brussels and so on. Of course, in the Medulin municipality, they're not naive and they know that their garbage won't treat tomorrow as well as today no one else down the town of Pula and it's right on the site of Kashtjun. The garbage has been delayed there for 50 years and hard, it is almost impossible for the trash to be resupplyed, especially after these 7.8m euros will be secured to resuscitate the dump. So it's almost impossible to move it. What if it moved? Who would take it at all I'm gonna say that pulse trash? Bale, I know he won't. Medulin said he wouldn't. No Marchan, no Fažana, no Vodnjan, no Kanfanar there near TDR. I don't want my God or my Buzet who's in the '70s or the '80s to be so figuratively expressed immersed that the dirt could be supplied with water. And if, on the other hand, we lose these 7.8m euros or it's a 60m kuna circus that's meant for Brussels to resuscitate opportunities in Kashtjun, then never again will the problem of waste disposal in Istria be resolved. Or what else can happen when it does, and soon it will happen when it approaches the day Kashtjun, Medulin, and others will have to deal with their garbage in their territory. It is clear that all this politicisation that takes place in Istria around Kashtjun is solely tied or better said in the function of the upcoming local elections. And these NGOs that are protesting do so because certain tycoons who have very political aspirations are paying for them in Istria and elsewhere, or financing them. So then it happens that some associations have far larger budgets than what there are, say, IDSs, the ruling party in the County of Istria. What bothered me most was that, at one point, Minister Dropulic was involved in such politicisation. So I'm gonna say it one more time. For Mariscina, based on this law, only to find it which is 189th protection of the environment is provided 8.7m euros. For Kashtjun, 7.8m euros were secured. So nothing could have happened if they had not been participated in both Brussels and Zagreb and the city of Pula under quotes. I want so much to believe that Kashtjun will be realized for the pleasure of everyone, because every other option right now, and that's what citizens know, is a pre-election policy. Anyone who comes to the head of Pula or the County of Istria the next day, and if the problem of Kashtjun is not resolved, that is, his funding, will have to be resolved, or in one Pula, Medulin, Fažani, in one word in Istria, will cause this inaction with this ecological disaster. And we all agree in this House and I believe in Pula that Istria or any city in the Republic of Croatia is not necessary. As far as law number 191 is concerned, it weighs 339m euros. He tangs the bicenter in Zagreb, and law number 192 weighs 553.8 million kuna. It concerns the realisation of the railway line on corridor 10 as it is already called. And now that I'm not talking about exactly what's going on here, that's what it's about, that's what it's all about, plus clear waterways on Savi and Vukovar Port. I just want to say that I regret that no kuna has gone to a section of the railway line from Zagreb to Rijeka, and as far as I'm concerned, I regret that it seems that, in the circumstances of this general and international recession, we can hardly count on the construction of a tunnel through Učka, i.e. the integration of Croatian railways into the system of European railways, and all in order to attract a good part of the rail cargo from Barcelona, southern France, northern Italy through Istria, Zagreb, further to Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia further to Ukraine. All of this is understandable in these difficult circumstances, the difficult times these legal proposals are as they say, a mele on the wound, understandably that they need to be voted on and should be realised as soon as possible in the capacity of some of the public works proposed by public investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20408	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20409	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary. We have before us several draft laws regarding the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance of the IPA. It is therefore a confirmation of the financing agreement and in the previous law on the rules for cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, and concerning operational programmes which de facto detail measures by individual components of the IPA. As the document itself provides, the technical, legal and administrative framework implementing the financing measures under the operational programmes are set out in the framework agreement, and the financing agreement sets out the detailed conditions necessary for the delivery of assistance to the European Community, the rules and procedures relating to the payment of this aid and the conditions under which it is managed. So laityally said after the Parliament passed this law, the Republic of Croatia can receive the first IPA money, which is an indicative amount of $1 billion per year on average. And of course the SDP supports the adoption of these laws. As you know, IPA consists of several components, assistance in transition, institution building, cross-border cooperation, regional development, human potential development and rural development. Components 3, 4 and 5, when you take a closer look at them, you can see that through this you can finance the establishment of new waste management centres, the creation of a modern water supply system, the construction of waste water treatment devices, the modernisation of the sewerage network. Investment in business infrastructure, equipment and training for provision and business services, promotion of business investment climate, infrastructure for incubation of commercialisation in the bioscience sector, support for cluster development, biocentres, environmental improvement and landscapes, strengthening adult education systems, the system of vocational education, of course strengthening and strengthening employment measures. So I'm not listing these are really great measures that and future projects that can very much help the Republic of Croatia. If we add to this component 2 cross-border cooperation, so Croatia-Italy, Croatia-Slovenia, Croatia-Hungarian de facto can thus be said also layically that component 2, component 3 and component 5 are mostly used by our regions, our local communities, and that makes almost 50% of this amount. Of course, as counterpart Cain said, all this is a melem in the wound, but there are still problems Croatia will surely face in 2009. As I said most of this, half of almost money goes towards regional development, Croatia still has no regional development strategy, or there is one since 2005 that has been online for the past three years, and there has been an announcement by Minister Cobankovic that the new strategy will be completed in the summer, which has passed. So this summer, we haven't seen that strategy yet. Now the question is whether it is a new strategy that raises the question of why the old one financed by the CARDS 2 002 programmes and invested 10 million kunas. If that's the old one, the question is what's waiting for us so far and why are we waiting until 2009. I don't know. That's the answer I'm looking for, say, a question. But the strategy itself, according to Minister Cobankovic in this new, old-new however, will help Croatia join the European Union and prepare Croatia for structural funds. My colleagues and colleagues can't help it. The strategy cannot help us to better use structural funds, we will better use structural funds if we follow European norms and work well with IPA, because IPA and serves one part to help the Republic of Croatia to use structural funds, and the strategy itself without good administrative capacity also has no value, and that is another major problem in Croatia are our administrative capacities. We have them, but the problem above all is that we have a lot of new, especially new agencies that need to learn their jobs, we have old experienced people in the system who are increasingly burdened with work and are increasingly difficult to deal with with with the growing dynamics of work in the ZIP and, of course, structural funds... that the procedures are more complicated and there is a big problem because, as I told IPA, we are also preparing for structural funds that will be around a billion euros, so 7 billion kuna. If we don't deal well with an IPA that's far less how we deal with structural funds. Excuse me. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The problem lies most in wages, they are the same or perhaps slightly larger than the average, and should be far greater for those people who do such a complex job with such rapidly growing dynamics. Instead, we got some kind of pay freeze. It's your colleagues and colleagues' disaster formula. Because I've recently spoken to several people from different agencies both from DURF and the Ministry who are currently working on IPA. Part of them already got a new job, part of it's looking for a new job. If their salaries remain frozen this low they will go to private companies, they will work for a higher salary. The Republic of Croatia will run out of good staff, will have to hire and educate new ones. You don't have to be an expert in such a case to realize that there will be major problems, the projects will suffer, and by now you realize that in 2009, we may even lose money from the IPA. The European Commission has given equal money to create a strategy to encourage people in public administration, precisely the same value as around 10 million kunas that they are more encouraged, that they are doing even more quality work, instead their wages will stagnate and we are doing exactly the opposite of what we need to do. European projects are not a loss to the state in any way. The European projects of the Republic of Croatia, I have already listed all of this, can improve infrastructure, can help municipalities manage their own infrastructure, strengthen agriculture, strengthen entrepreneurship, competitiveness of entrepreneurship and agriculture, which inevitably means new jobs, with the financial assistance of the European Union, which means that there are certain savings in the budget because they may have financed it themselves. It's one of the proactive ways to save and instead go to freezing. Very, very bad tactics, the formula I said about disaster. Given that in a recent conversation with a colleague from the European Commission, a sentence that was for IPA will not be tolerated to you, nor will one bad euro be tolerated. So this, along with the loss of administration, can mean big, big problems. I do not know about the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but it is unacceptable for us in the SDP to negotiate with the European Union at a time like this and prepare for structural funds any losses to happen. Any kind. So much for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20410	Thank you. New correction. First, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Mondekara, who said the Ministry of Regional Development is working on a new strategy for regional development. That's not true. The Ministry of Regional Development, which is essentially organized by the summer and established in the spring of this year, prepared a draft law on regional development of the Regional Development Act, not any strategy, a law that will cover the entire regional development of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of naturally equating the development of all regions, all counties, all units of local self-government in our Republic of Croatia. The practice of funding salaries from the European Union funds is under way and in recent years I believe it will be in the future. Here's just one example. In my town of Pakrac, three salaries are financed from the PHARE 2006 programme, which lasts for 15 months, meaning the total of three salaries are financed from the European Union's funding programme. It's not news, it's practice, and I believe that's how it's gonna be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20412	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20413	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is wrong first that Croatia will lose money in 2009 and secondly it is incorrect to spill out, i.e. to leave the state services of those who ruled these programmes. In fact, Croatia ruled the programmes and therefore received management of just pre-accession programmes. It has received management precisely because it is capable and administrative and has capacities and people who can easily respond to all the requirements that IPA procedures assume. Therefore, there is no concern that the mass outflow of people will be from the state administration. There will always be those who, for personal reasons, will leave a certain service and seek better conditions for themselves in other conditions, but it is not about any mass departure of experts. After all, I've never heard of it before. For the first time I've heard it from your mouth that it doesn't happen this way. It's simple. ... It won't happen, there's no reason to happen. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The freezing hasn't happened yet, so we'll talk about it when the budget's over. That's a whole other question, it really has nothing to do with this question that's now on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20414	Okay. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20415	Seventhly, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Community for the multiannual operational programme "Environmental Protection" for Community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance under the Regional Development component in Croatia is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 189. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Proposal for the Law was adopted by the majority of the vote 104 votes for and one abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20452	We are going to the next item - - Proposal for a Protocol Confirmation Act with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia, of the one part, and the European Communities and their Member States, of the other part, to take into account the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, with the Final Proposal for Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 190 The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, agriculture, fisheries and rural development and by the Committee on European Integration. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Mr. Josip Kraljičković will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20453	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. I am pleased to explain briefly the proposed law on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Following the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union on 1 January 2007, it was necessary to amend the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, in a similar manner as it was done in 2004 after the EU enlargement to 10 new countries, so-called Protocol 7 was then. In December 2006, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to initiate a protocol procedure under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community and their Member States then we call the Protocol on Enlargement. The enlargement protocol was signed on 15 July 2008, the Republic of Croatia has applied the provisions of the enlargement protocol since August 2007. ... The negotiations for the Protocol were an amendment to the text in order to provide a legal basis for the implementation of the SAA for two new EU member states, amendments, provisions, rules, origin in a way that allowed the use of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] concessions for two new EU Member States and amendments to trade concessions for agricultural products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The latter was the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. In the part of the negotiations concerning the advantages of agricultural trade, the starting point for negotiations was reached... trade between the Republic of Croatia and the countries of Bulgaria and Romania for a period of three years, from 2004 to 2006. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These negotiations, therefore, do not reflect the current bilateral concessions towards Bulgaria and Romania in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but have been corrected in a positive way for the Republic of Croatia, taking into account the actual level of trade achieved during the three-year... Periods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In total, the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania share only 0.6% in the trade of agricultural products with the Republic of Croatia. As regards agricultural concessions, the enlargement protocol approved an increase in the duty-free quota for the export of preserved fish from Croatia to the EU, while the Republic of Croatia in turn approved an increase in existing and new... customs duties on 17 agricultural and food products originating in the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The adoption of this law provides a legal basis for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to apply to the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania. It is proposed that this bill be adopted, or discussed and adopted in an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20454	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20455	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. So I think that there is indeed one law before us, but which is actually more technical in nature, it is really about harmonising the basis of the fact that Bulgaria and Romania became new members of the European Union on 1 January 2007 and, as the Secretary of State here said in the same way, in 2004 when 10 other countries joined the European Union, so it is also now this Proposal for a Protocol to confirm the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities, which is actually one technical harmonisation, although it is not fully technical, so we have heard from the Secretary of State that certain trade concessions for agricultural products have changed, that is, as far as imports are concerned, 17 products in the Republic of Croatia, and as regards exports it is one product, it is a preserved fish, so that the increase in the quota for exports to the European Union. Therefore, the adoption of this Protocol Confirmation Act of the Croatian Assembly approves amendments to the SAA in the section establishing these trade concessions for agricultural and food products and technical adaptations in part of the Protocol relating to the definition of the concept of the product of origin and the method of administrative cooperation for the application of the provisions of the SAA. I think it is quite clear and clear what this bill is about, and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community club also supports the urgency of this law and, of course, the adoption and adoption of this Proposal for a Protocol Confirmation Act with the SAA, because it is a very natural process I would say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20456	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20457	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State. So here I would say that this is not a technical question, as Mr. Frane says, because behind that technique there are some figures, there are certain products that can certainly be very significant in this import and export balance. Therefore, this Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, and the European Community and their members, of the other part, in order to take into account the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Romania to the European Union has been delivered to us for confirmation even though it has already been brought to life by the signature of Minister Pankretic. By looking at it that way, there are no dilemmas, and it is likely that the Parliament will also verify that signature as it should go. However, in our SDP club, there are some other issues that we do not have the answers to from this material and introductive exposure. The subject of the negotiations for the conclusion of the Protocol were trade concessions for agricultural and fishery products which were valid for trade with those countries. Based on bilateral free trade agreements, they have ceased to apply by entering Bulgaria and Romania into the European Union, but one question is whether the exchange conditions were better when they were based on bilateral contracts or would be better after the signing of the protocol. Why does it matter to know? Because just the results at the trade level of agricultural and food and fishery products, in the first 9 months of 2008, are the worst in the time since this independent Croatia. The difference between imports and exports in negative is over $1 billion. There was no such difference at the end of one year, for the first time she crossed one billion of those imbalances. It means it's important how we trade with these other countries. This is the result of imports that have crossed two billion, crossed two billion food imports, and exports have not reached one billion or exactly 955 million dollars. Export coverage is below 50% or more precisely 47.3%, and over the past 9 months, and 9 months, respectively, the import increase index is 131.9 and imports are 131.9 and exports are only 106. In this analysis, particularly imports are imported, if we recalculate meat and live animals that we have imported 88 thousand 711 pieces of cattle by weight of 420 kilograms or 505,000 even pigs weighing 100 kilograms. Not to mention imports of over 50 million dollars of wheat and corn, which we know today and have in quantities that are enough and we don't know how to deal with them. After these indicators, the question arises as to what gives us confirmation of this protocol. In addition to providing a legal basis for the adoption of implementing rules for the allocation of additional import preferential customs quotas for imports, 17 agricultural products originating in the European Union have been said and written. These are either existing or some new quotas, and Croatia has been granted an increase in the duty-free concession for imports of preserved fish originating in Croatia into the European Union. Now that you are looking at these 17 products and comparing them with the results of imports of exports in the first nine months of 2008, I think I came up with some indicators that say unfortunately that in many products that we have now put on a duty-free quota, such as living sheep and goats, which increases duty-free concessions by a thousand 200 tonnes, and we have already imported a thousand 790 tonnes or $5.7 million in the first nine months. Exports are zero at the same time. It is similar with sheep and goat meat, which increases the same quota by 1,000 tonnes, and over 9 months, a thousand 377 tonnes or 8.1 million dollars have been imported, and that exports are also zero. Now there's one question to which one will agree with this duty-free import? Are we going to eat cheaper lamb or goat or goat, are we going to introduce quality living ones from Europe, develop our own sheepmaking and goats? If that is realised then this protocol made sense, but the material is clearly visible, it is certain that importers will not pay customs duties on these amounts and that the budget revenues that we say are insufficient will be reduced. And that's why we have this situation right now and the government is proposing both savings and less wages and everything that's going to be. So on one side we allow someone to have more favourable conditions by import and we do not oblige them to sell these products cheaper to the population of Croatia. Analysis and other 15 products is similar, and especially products that should be available in sufficient quantities and some of us have such as, we have a wheat issue, we import duty-free plums, mineral water, sugar products. It's like this when we look at what we're going to get with this way and imports under this protocol. And now what do we get by increasing exports? Exports only increase the duty-free quota in canned fish of 35 tonnes. Unfortunately, according to our production very little because in 9 months 2008 we exported fish processing and cans for 3 thousand 390 tonnes or 16.5 million dollars, however, even more shocking data that in 9 months we imported the same products 4 thousand 42 tonnes or spent $17.2 million. I think it turns out from this we want to fill this duty-free rate with this import, not export. That is why I finally believe that we should have said this in order to ensure that all the protocols we sign are implemented after the Parliament's verification and that the negotiators try to impose products that we cannot produce ourselves and those that we have to be on the customs regime and not that imported without customs duty compete with our production and are also more suffocating. I also think export quotas should be used as much as possible, but the prerequisite is to develop this production and not to reduce and destroy this production, because we know that the number of fish conservation plants in the Adriatic is reduced. The protocol is signed here. It needs to be normally verified but also so that the restoring ministry targets its activity towards the development of production that is not sufficient for the diet of the population that we import, and with the aim of reducing our rebalancing, the import of Croatia's balance sheet into agricultural products, because if we move forward this way, I don't know what will remain and what we will have to export and what we will all import. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20458	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20459	Thank you. So if a colleague had listened more carefully then he would have heard that I said that this is not a technical change just because quotas or trade concessions for agricultural food products are changing. So I didn't say it was just technical but... It's not because it changes exactly in this part, and that part is as positive as you could hear from the secretary of state, not negative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He is positive for the Republic of Croatia. That's what the secretary of state explained, and then he can explain it to you later. And when it comes to the import of fish, fish products, that's exactly what our tourism is for. We import the most fish because tourist facilities, hotels, restaurants and so on have an increased demand for consumption and it is highly charged through their services. We are at the top, at the top, world top by importing fish products and fish of everything else. So there's a reason why we're importing. It is absolutely certain that we make good money, that we make good money on that import.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20460	And as for the export of sputum? It can't be exported, it's just... I'm concluding a debate on this point. Let's go to the next point, please? Here you go. Previously, the Secretary of State's earlier closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20461	Here are the honourable parliamentary deputies, and yet if you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain for a little bit for a little bit of understanding. The Honorable MP may not have read the text properly until the end, so I will repeat myself. So this protocol allows Croatia much more favourable terms than before. It allows it to export or export all its products except 4 without quotas to the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania, and to increase from across the European Union, it can allow an increase in imports by a three-year average that was with those countries, or even lower for that average. For example, sheep and goats had 1314 now speaking tones, and we allowed 1200 tons of maximum imports. So we have so many examples. One means, firstly more favourable to us in the negotiations established this protocol which we hope to adopt. And secondly, not all products listed in the system of duty-free relationships are listed in 17 but are only 8. So for other products, they mean 9 also apply the customs duties that are written here, which exist and which will be applied. Which also put Croatia on a more favourable condition than it has ever been. And if this is the case, let me just say two sentences about the import of agricultural products we need to know how many farms and what agriculture is doing in the total import of Croatia? Less than 8% of total imports into Croatia waste on agricultural food products. A total of a quarter of these imported products can never be produced in Croatia. That must also be clear to us. The other one has to be clear. Last year was a very big drought. Thirdly, this year there has been an increase in prices on the world market, above all the European Union... 70% of total imports of waste into the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what you said further, dear Parliamentarian, did not say that index 131 and 31%, respectively, is the increase in imports measured in dollars. So it's a value measure in dollars. If we also consider a significant drop in the value of the dollar, if we turn it into EUR, then this imports are EUR 15.4. If this is measured by quantities then given the increase in imports increased by domestic consumption but above all by the drought in the year last year, the quantity of imports is higher than last year only 1.7%. So these are facts that speak specifically about what happens to the import of agricultural and food products in Croatia. So it's about what we're going to do, meaning the measures that exist in the budget, the government's programme we're holding to help invest in agriculture, modernization and more production we hope and more competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20462	Thank you. I'm closing this agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20463	10thly, the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmed Protocol with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia, of the one part, and the European Communities and their Member States, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 190. The debate is closed. And I am giving the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol to the Voting. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Proposal for the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol was adopted by a majority vote 101 votes for and 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20464	Let's go to the next one. - Proposal for a conclusion on the Regulation on the level of annual compensation for the use of public roads to be paid when registering motor vehicles This conclusion is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HNS. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. Proposer representative Mr Zeljko Vincelj will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20465	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In recent months, we have witnessed a dramatic increase in the price of oil and severe, professional and political debates on the causes and consequences and the fact of citizens' lives. How much fuel prices have recently seemed incredible also proves the unfulfilled promises of the Croatian government that announced the protection of the price of gasoline at the 8 kuna per litre limit and when it happened, it did nothing. Moreover, the price went up to 10 kuna. Citizens remain unable to wait for new gatherings, to listen to advice on how to drive in a car, and to think seriously about riding a bike. Due to high demand and limited production of oil, there is often a disorder and accumulation, and this fact is used by speculators. Experts estimate that the actual price of oil including production and research is between $30 and $40 per barrel, in any case more than $100 or $150 per barrel. This time, the global global financial crisis and recession saved us from completely inappropriate extra fuel prices. This time, the oil price hurricane calmed down with an inevitable question and when it would come back. In the context of this debate, it should be pointed out that gasoline everywhere, including us, is one of the most recent sources of charge of the state budget, so from the cost paid by the consumer almost two-thirds go to the state through VAT, excise duties and road charges. So, if we want to drive a car do we have a choice when on one hand big players are on the world stage and speculators we can't influence and from another state that's proven neither in crisis times is likely to intervene or fire in that large part of the price of gasoline in the zone of its responsibility. We have, right now, the best solution that remains for citizens to drive on gas that is still significantly cheaper than gasoline and diesel fuel. There is no relevant information that the European Union has adopted a recommendation that the price of autogas should be at least 50% lower than the price of euro-supervised gas by 2011. Autogas in Croatia is already more than 50% cheaper today than gasoline and diesel. Autogas for Croatia should be a great potential because, unlike many other countries, we produce it ourselves in sufficient quantities. But do we know that advantage and we want to take advantage of it? Not yet, I'm sure. In Croatia, not only is there no form of stimulation for citizens to ride with autogas but there is even an additional imposition on those who do so contained in Article 5. Regulation on the annual fee for the use of public roads according to which the owner of a gas-powered vehicle when registering a vehicle therefore pays 550 kuna each year more than the owner of a vehicle on a petrol or diesel drive. The additional fee is even bigger for delivery vehicles, freight vehicles, buses and the like, and amounts to 2 thousand kunas. This increased fee is considered professionally and logically wrong by the Croatian People's Party, although it is discriminatory for the owners of a gas-powered vehicle and we argue that it should be abolished, or equalised, the cost of public road charges paid when registering a vehicle for all vehicles regardless of what fuel they use for propulsion. Last year, the Round Table on Autoplin was held at Veleučište Veliko Gorica, where experts from scientific and business institutions agreed on the following. The results of the air quality test in the residential part of Zagreb suggest increased emissions of harmful gases and air pollution. It is therefore recommended to use delivery vehicles, taxi vehicles, utility vehicles and other public transport vehicles on autogas. Then, many European Union countries provide incentives for the installation of autogas and for the promotion of new autogas vehicles precisely for the benefit of these fuels for environmental protection, as well as for the promotion of industrial production. Then, in the Republic of Croatia, there is the possibility of encouraging the consumption of autogas because it is a domestic product that has enough to further expand, which is in line with the European Union's policy on which the use of 20% of the fleet is an alternative fuel. Finally, it is necessary to abolish additional contributions to the registration of autogas vehicles, which would be an incentive to owners of companies that have large rolling stock as commercial chains, delivery services and so on and in order to grow domestic economies in medium and larger companies. The Croatian People's Party considers, on the basis of justified professional requirements and also the needs of citizens for cheaper transport, that the Croatian State should urgently abolish the additional charges imposed on autogas users when registering the vehicle. For many businessmen, it would also be motivated to switch to autogas only to remove this intrusion when registering a vehicle. However, citizens should be particularly encouraged to adapt their vehicles to autogas. This can simply be done by recognising citizens' personal investment in autogas installations as a tax deduction. In addition, the Ministry of Economy should even stimulate a private enterprise initiative to set up autogas charging stations in Croatia to support small and medium-sized enterprises. This should be done even if we do not have an interest in car gas, because this interest exists in Europe and the world, and we as a tourist country should know that it is one of the segments of a good tourist offer. In the moments of total inflation, when citizens lose the battle with prices, they would find much to do with the stimulating measures to move to a car-gas drive. The gas device can be installed in any petrol engine. The lack of use is almost gone, except for the loss of 20% to 30% of the space in the trunk, the loss of engine power is almost negligible. That's why the list of advantages is respectable. It is absolutely safe from the explosion, regardless of the slightly less energy value of gas gas consumption is higher by approximately 10% of the fuel, the financial savings on this fuel are almost 50% with a tendency and increase in that savings. Propane-butane as a necessary product in oil and natural gas is less sensitive to price increases, which at least means maintaining that difference. A return to investment in a gas device in the first year of exploitation has been made from 15 to 20 thousand kilometers annually. After 200 to 250 thousand miles or about ten years, the amount of savings will be sufficient to buy a new medium - class vehicle. Interestingly, gas rides have not gained great popularity only in poorer countries. Pre-existing installation of gas into motor vehicles and countries where it has the most gas-powered cars are Italy and the Netherlands, which certainly do not belong to poor countries. Using the gas car increases the engine's duration by as much as 35%, quieter and quieter engine operation, reduced environmental pollution. Much cleaner exhaust gases than diesel engines do not release smoke of solid particles and sulphur oxides and do not release lead from petrol engines, produce less carbon dioxide and non-degradable hydrocarbons. The consumption of motor oils has been reduced, oil is cleaner in the engine, it extends the life of the catalyst and the exhaust system, it is more valuable in the sale of the vehicle. The use of gas helps reduce acid rain, global warming, water and air pollution. As an ecological fuel due to much less harmful exhaust compounds, most European countries make it easier for vehicle owners with built-in gas installations. Last year, Sweden approved a thousand-dollar relief for each purchased environmental vehicle. Over 120 million dollars were given to citizens in a year of relief. The result, after one year of application, every third vehicle sold is ecological. In Japan, all taxis should have gas. In the United States, police and other state institutions must legally have alternative vehicles. Italy subsidises the installation of gas in vehicles, in Spain and Austria car gas is used in public transport. It is estimated that the indicative number of at least 9 million gas-powered vehicles in the world is further increasing. The World Propan Gas Association forecasts that by 2010, only in America, 17 million vehicles will be powered by car gas. It is estimated that there are 45,000 gas cars in Croatia today. Neither the general climate nor the number of gas chargers, nor the regulatory one, say that we want Croatia to be much more interested. Instead of relief and stimulation, our citizens are being punished every year with 25 million kuna on vehicle registration, wishing to tell them they're doing something wrong with having gas in the vehicle. Here is also the initiative by the Croatian People's Party to lift at least a special imposition in the registration of a car gas vehicle, the government responds that they will not, because the gasmen are rewarded enough to charge cheap gas as opposed to the petrol and diesels who pay for the price of fuel for road charges. Ironic and cynical attitude, if nothing else, because we have a lot of our own gas, so we're the bosses in our backyard and we're not going to whine about the world's speculators. In addition, the government forgets that our vehicles usually still have a combined combination of gas and gas use, so despite the car's gas, citizens will in part continue to pay for road charges in the price of gasoline. In addition, the State would make up for the useful and cost-reduction of the environment. Well, the government is also completely contradictory in its explanation why it does not accept the HNS proposal to abolish this discriminatory charge. Because it says that the annual fee for public road users pays for all vehicles registered in the Republic of Croatia, because by their mass of axle loads and mileages damage the road, regardless of the type of propulsion fuel. This is said by the government, while introducing additional charges to those with auto gas, which do not have gasoline, justifying the process by the lower price of gasoline and there is no excise excise duty of 20 liters per litre for roads. This is where pears and apples are mixed, because the Ministry of Transport in the Regulation which determines the annual fee for the use of public roads paid for each year’s registration of the vehicle must respect this principle, correct and logical position, that each vehicle should pay that fee regardless of the type of fuel it consumes. It's the same, not for someone bigger, because his fuel's cheaper. The problem of the participation of special excise duties for roads in fuel prices, and so the gas car should be solved at the level of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the prices of the car's gas, if necessary. I repeat, if necessary. Once the benefits that the State has in its plan to cut costs in the protection of the environment due to the use of the gas car. I am convinced that the state, however, would conclude that road excise duties should not be introduced into the price of the car's gas, because the benefits of using the car's gas in the environmental protection sphere are large enough to compensate for this lack. And not only is it used in the sphere of environmental protection, but it is also able to use the stimulating price of the car's gas all the fuel that Croatia has in sufficient quantities to sell at home. In addition to this, I transfer the data to spend about 200 thousand tonnes of ingested oil gas per year in Croatia, out of which cca 60 thousand tonnes to drive car gas at the price of 3 kuna 35 limes, and we export the rest of cca 150 thousand tonnes to Europe. We see that huge potentials in increasing the users of autogas are in Croatia. This is the only energy we have in sufficient quantities and much more, and by modernising refineries within the energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia, the potential of the production of incinerated oil gas rises to 500 thousand tonnes of ingested oil gas annually and more than enough to soon get a third of the motor vehicles in Croatia on autogas. When the state sends a greeting message to the citizens and takes business to do so in the light of the abolition of such pointless burdens, but also by introducing reliefs to adapt the vehicle to autogas. At the very least, all these benefits are still not enough to compensate the state revenues from her gold... Oil, autogas consumers can also pay for some less road charges in the price of autogas, and their gas will still be much cheaper than gasoline. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that is not the reason why this discriminatory provision in the rules on the height of the annual fee for the use of public roads is not to be abolished by citizens who use autogas. It is essential to abolish the discrimination of autogas users in the registration of the vehicle because it is against logic and compensation, and the level of price of autogas and inclusion or not excise duty for roads is a problem for itself and should be particularly addressed after a comprehensive analysis. I stress, especially the price of autogas. According to the Regulation, the money in the registration of the vehicle is taken for a precise reason, the destruction of the roads. No extra money can be taken for this because a vehicle uses cheaper fuel than usual or predominantly fuel. It's not in the spirit of the rules, it's against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20466	Thank you very much. We've got one report of a rectification. Dear Representative, colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20467	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I guess we don't all live at the same time. I can understand that you prepared this speech a few months ago when the price of a barrel of oil was $150 or that you got that speech when the price was that high, but today the price of oil is $53 per barrel. Today talking about the price of $150 is really deplaced. The second thing is to talk about the protection price of 8 kuna, it is also deplaced and today the fuel price is well below 8 kuna. A completely declassified debate, with facts that don't stand, with false facts. Thus, at least that opening part of the talk could be adapted to today’s time, not reading what you were preparing a few months ago. I think it would, at least be more correct. What will be the price we are not Nostradamuses like you, so that we can predict what the price will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20468	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? State Secretary, Mr. Drazen Breglec. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20469	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. As you know, the government is not in agreement with this HNS proposal and as is also known and the relevant Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee has also taken the same position. Before I refer to the proposal itself, let me just comment and call the government on unfulfilled promises, though it refers to the last term, but as continuity can be denied from this stage. The promise of 8 kuna was defended until the date that the promise was made, right up to that date, and then under the pressure of the world price, that dam and that announcement could not be realised further, so the increase that was made was state until the date until it was given, and of course everything else was already spoken to everyone and it was certainly wrong to say that the government was guilty of the price of 9, so close to 10 kuna, as wrongly as at this point, it would be realistic to say that it was due to the price of below 8 kuna, i.e. 7.6 kuna as currently Eurosuper 95. As far as the proposal itself is concerned, it simply does not seem unfounded, but it is perfectly logical that the vehicle driven by gas or a vehicle driven on any other energy destroys the same amount of road, and the fee we are talking about, which is defined by the rules on the height of the annual fee for the use of public roads paid for the registration of motor vehicles and connected vehicles, this fee is the revenue of the Croatian roads and Croatian highways and is intended for the exact effect of the vehicles used by the road by the road. So it's perfectly logical that vehicles and vehicles, regardless of the drive, in this case I'm talking about autogas all vehicles must be in approximately the same way involved in the cost of spending, i.e. the use of roads and highways. However, even this calculation, even this 550 kuna item per passenger vehicle, i.e. 2 thousand kuna per other vehicle of a freight bus, we come up with a very simple bill, which is that by simulation of the cost of only 10 thousand kilometers per year, which is certainly below the average average of the average mileage, average vehicle, through a fee of 1.2 kuna per litre of fuel, driver, or owner of a vehicle of gas, pays with an average consumption of 10 litres and 10 thousand kilometres, so a thousand thousand kuna for roads and highways, and that the owner of a gas vehicle spends, i.e. to the purpose of 550 kuna. Of course, by increasing the average mileage to 15 or 20 thousand, this difference increases the owner of a vehicle that travels 20 thousand kilometers, and on average spends 10 liters per 100 km in payment on behalf of the fee of 2 thousand 400 kunas to Croatian roads and Croatian highways while the owner still pays 550 kuna on gas. It is true that about 25 million will be this year and from this fee paid in the budgets of Croatian roads, Croatian highways from drivers of all autogas vehicles that is from the same level of fuel charge per litre, that the fee would be 60 million kuna would be paid by all drivers of the vehicle on autogas. So, both with these consolidations, and with these charges paid by car owners, it's more than twice as low as the average fee paid by car owners for fossil fuels through fuel consumption, so on gasoline and on diesel. Furthermore, in 2000, in its Green Paper on Energy Security, the European Commission decided in part that by 2020 it would recommend replacing 20 % of classical fossil fuels with alternative fuels, and thus the projection is about half related to car gas exchange in transport. Croatia will, of course, adapt its policy as part of the accession of the European Union and as part of the monitoring and policy of the Member States of the European Union, its policies to the relevant strategies, the relevant documents in this case to this particular Green Paper on energy security, thus making the overall strategy for the promotion and introduction of gas into transport. Through this strategy and the action plan, comprehensive measures will stimulate and eliminate the fear that the introduction of gas into road transport will become invaluable, and unfortunately some speculation about drastic gas increases has begun to be realised and certainly the aim of introducing and further encouraging a cost-effective difference for the introduction of gas into transport. Finally, here's another fact, and that's that when the technical examination of the vehicle on the car's gas, they don't pay for the eco-test while all the other vehicles are paying for it. It's not a big fee, of course, but we're calling it a fact here. Of course, through the strategy itself and the action plan that will follow, the measures will be systematically sorted and introduced and aimed at making this process, and a positive process and in most of your exposure we can accept the argument and continue to introduce the car gas into road transport one of the objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20470	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague, Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20471	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct one and a half incorrect allegations from Mr. Secretary of State. So he said, it's wrong to say that the government was to blame for that price of gas of 9 and something that it was. In one part of the wrong to say, in one part it is true, because when that price was current we were just warning that because of the increase in the price of gasoline is dramatically increasing the revenues of the state budget per litre of the price of gasoline and we proposed that this is how the price is maintained, and that is how it is said and that this is why the balanced budget of 2-3 billion kuna seems to me. And the other half of the false assumption is that the government is responsible for this price of 7, that it is wrong to say that the government is responsible for the price of 7 kuna. It is also partly true, however, who is then responsible for having the most expensive gasoline in the region, more expensive than Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and other neighbouring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20472	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then let's go to the hearing. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished counterpart Zivko Nenadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20473	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS therefore proposes that Article 5 be abolished. The rules on the level of the annual fee for the use of public roads, and as you have heard, this Article 5 states that car owners with gas drive pay 550 kuna fees. The annual amount of public road charges shall be paid by all vehicles registered in the Republic of Croatia, because the type of fuel does not affect road consumption, or the vehicle of a particular mass will destroy the road equally whether the engine is diesel, petrol or gas. Owners of the petrol and diesel vehicle when buying fuel in the price of one litre of fuel pay one whole set of fuel supplements such as excise duties, road construction fees, highways, etc. while the owner of the gas vehicle pays only the fuel price increased for added value and therefore the 550 kuna, i.e. 2,000 kuna, is for let's say freight vehicles. The promoter himself calculated that if this article were to be abolished, i.e. freed from these fees, the owners of a gas-powered car, in order to amount to about 24 million, it says here 24 million 750 thousand kuna, and the secretary of state has now confirmed that it is about 20 million kuna. Now the question is, who will make up for that 25 million kuna a year? Are we going to put that out of the budget, so all taxpayers, or are we going to transfer these 25 million kunas to car owners using fuel and diesel. And the Secretary of State himself said that 50% and more than 50% of the average and average consumption of annual fuel the owner of diesel already has a certain discount. Therefore, the HDZ Club considers that road charges should be paid by all owners of the vehicle, not only by those who have a gas drive, because the road is equally used and spent by all and for these reasons does not support this proposal from the HNS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20474	Thank you very much. One application for correction of the alleged, distinguished representative of counterpart Goran Beus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20475	Here's a colleague of Zivko's says he doesn't know how to make up for this $24 million pick-up of these 45,000 vehicles. You asked a rhetorical question, and who should make it up to you? I don't think that's a good question because it's known who should make up for it. In fact, there is an incredible robbery and smuggling of fossil fuels in the Republic of Croatia. Look at yesterday's response from the Deputy Prime Minister Polancec to my representative's question, so you'll see, if you read a little better, what kind of scandal is going on behind the hill. In a few weeks you'll see what it means when the state closes its eyes three and a half billion gallons of smuggled fuel that hasn't been paid any VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20476	But we haven't corrected any allegations. I guess we'll talk about it another time. And now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Boris Šprem. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20477	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, sir... an associate, a colleague and a colleague. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the subject is to amend one regulation, namely the adoption of the Assembly's conclusion, in order to allow those who invest with their money in installations to be able to use the car's gas as fuel and invest around 12,000 kuna, to make it easier for them to drive their vehicles and drive. It's always forgotten. I didn't hear that argument from the government here when it came to some other arguments that some of them were standing. But when it comes to collecting arguments for both one and another thesis, then you need to see which arguments weigh and where it all leads. And that what is, I'm sorry that there is no Mr. Matusic here, that when he said and that's the topic of today, these agenda points that Mr. Zeljko's representative of the HNS has fallen from Mars, because how can he now even make that request through this proposal to the Assembly's conclusion? He didn't take it now. He submitted it, i.e. the Club of HNS Representatives 24.6. but through this, I will try to prove through my further exposure that what the HNS Club has proposed is also current. Therefore, it may not have been clear through certain exposures that the owner of the motor vehicle has come to the technical inspection station to extend the registration of the motor vehicle if it has a fuel or diesel drive to pay one amount of money for the use of public roads, and those who have a car gas drive they pay 550 kuna more. So these guys pay all 180 kuna in total, and he's still paying 550 kuna. Those who have up to 1600 cubic pounds 375 kuna, and this one pays another 550 kuna. Those who have, who own cargo vehicles or buses pay 2,000 kuna more. And there's the problem. It's suggested that there should be no such obligation. What's the situation I'm going to be in the world and Europe for a while. Proposed by global climate change, the UN and the EU have established a new comprehensive strategy for reducing CO2 emissions and road transport is produced by 20% of CO2 total. What Secretary of State Breglett said about that. The new EU strategy is based on a reduction in the share of fossil fuel consumption. The Green Paper Mr. Breglec mentioned about the security of energy supply from 2000 and since 2000, please be careful, setting the goal of replacing 20% of conventional fuel in road transport with alternative fuels, primarily biofuels, natural gas, hydrogen. In the transitional period, and this period is an effective measure to achieve global targets on the air protection plan by reducing greenhouse gas emissions is imposed, therefore it is imposed as a solution in this transitional period of the ingested oil gas popularly called auto gas. What are the benefits of using ingested oil gas? First of all, environmental benefits. 50% carbon monoxide reduction, 405 less hydrocarbons, 30% less nitrogen oxide, 20% less carbon dioxide. A total of 50% less harmful effects on the ozone layer. The economy only uses some. The ride's twice as cheap. It stimulates, of course, that all of this is happening. Vehicles don't have to go to the eco test. The engine's life span is 35% longer than Mr. Zeljko said. What's the situation with us? In short. INA 2010 plans to produce 400,000 and 2012 550,000 tons of ingested oil gas a year. Because of the fact that propane butane, which is ingested oil gas, it burns out completely, and there is no loss of fuel in exhaust gases, and there is no emissions of harmful particles such as soot, ash and the like. The European Commission prescribes Member States that car gas prices should never exceed 50% of the price of the most expensive motor fuel. That, therefore, the European Union is simply asking the Member States to do so. This is also the case with Croatia. So even though the government was last year... The company specialising in the business of ingested oil gas approved an increase in the retail price of car gas by 10% liters of that fuel from 3,05 to 3,335 kuna, and remained twice as cheap as gasoline, which is also a fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was recognized by drivers to prove that Proplin sold 11,000 kg of gas in 2002 and 2006. 35,000 kg which is an increase of 200 percent. It is estimated that car gas in Croatia is now powered by around 45,000 vehicles, which is 15000 more than last year. That's a total of 2 and a half percent of the vehicle. In Croatia, many obstacles and prejudices have been breached, and conditions for easier development have been created, and we have increased the total consumption of car gas in the fifth place in the world, please. This is an important fact by reaching about 35,000 tonnes or 21% of total consumption in 2006. The number of service workshops for installation of auto gas equipment rose to more than 200 to 28 years ago, and the number of car chargers from the initial 15 reached 150. It enabled opening, don't forget, more than 2,000 jobs. Don't forget that. INA's current production is 380000 tonnes a year, while after the first phase of modernization of the refinery in 2010, it is expected to produce about 400000 tonnes, and in 2012, I already said 550000 tonnes. One of the more significant incentive measures for moving to car gas is considered to be the release from the eco-test of a gas-powered vehicle, which is also a good measure and leads in this direction which we have spoken about what the World Community and the European Union inauguration. But more developed countries have far greater incentives than Croatia. In Italy, a supplement for vehicles of infused oil gas in road taxes has been completely abolished. The Government there accepts that 10% of all vehicles should use ingested oil gas to use differences in tax supplements to achieve that goal. The biggest bounce was made by Hong Kong whose environmental minister has chosen to install autogas at the hotspots and make public transport a legal obligation. Soon, all the diesel taxis and city buses were replaced by those on ingested oil and gas, resulting in a drop in the concentration of harmful gases and particles in the air by 23%. And now that I'm not talking, these are similar processes in Japan and Britain, and in some other countries. All of these reasons are in favour of stimulating rather than dimming car users on autogas because several things will be achieved, the opposite will be achieved. So it's going to be more polluted air, it's going to be a non-quality life, we're going to have a reduced number of jobs, and what I find very important to know is that we're all propagating environmentalism as a significant fact in the development of quality of life. But when a concrete requirement arises to compose it into our daily life, then we invent what is and I accept good for the future of projections. The projections are coming, etc. The projections are good, let them be comprehensive, but today it's on the agenda to get it going as soon as possible, to start from next year, to calculate it into the budget, and to make life a better place for it. So, ecology costs and that's what you need to know. And I think with a little effort, the government can get rid of those funds, those 25 million kunas, or maybe more if it's estimated at 30 million to allow that autogas to be used as much as possible. As a result, the SDP club supports the proposal of the HNS Club to change this rule in this direction I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20478	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, an esteemed colleague, Ivan Hanzek, applied for the debate. Here you go. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then comes the debate of distinguished counterpart Angelka Mihalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20479	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. This proposal for a Regulation on the level of annual compensation for the use of public roads paid in the registration of motor vehicles The proposed HNS club club was obviously able to agree with this had good intentions, much more so when the problem was seen from the point of view of the protection of the clean environment. Of course, there should be a number of stimulating measures for this, but we must not interfere with the mind that and owners who drive cars on diesel fuel or gasoline when buying fuel pay except for the price of fuel and a series of fuel supplements and where the content and a certain financial part for various projects to preserve nature and the clean environment without talking about the fees they pay for the construction of roads and highways. The fact that I've now exported everything is not paid by the owner of the gas vehicle but he only pays the fuel price increased for value added tax as it was here today on several occasions. That's one of the reasons why the car owners... pay when registering larger amounts of toll. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, the largest incentive measure for the installation of gas systems is certainly the price of gas which is almost half the price of gasoline or diesel for the owner of such a vehicle. From the information I received from the County Road Administration of Varazdin County, it is seen that this fee for the use of the road paid for the registration of the vehicle in the largest structure is more than 70% of the total income and the amount and the fee has not changed since 2002. The increase in revenue from 2004 when income amounted to Circ. 35 million by 2007, I speak for the Varazdin County, when it amounted to 42 million kunas, was based only on an increase in the number of vehicles. All other fees are only 30% in the income structure and these are compensations for the extraordinary transport that is very rarely made, compensation for the excessive use of public roads, fees for the use of road land, concessions and funds from municipal or urban and county and state budgets are only 15 to 17% in total income and are made on the basis of the agreement. And more compensation for the financing and construction and maintenance of public roads. So all these fees are only 30% and this fee we're talking about today is 70%. Since I sum up everything together, we see that this is far from sufficient means to maintain and build county local roads and it is certainly not yet possible to reduce the revenues that are as sufficient for the above mentioned activities because, in the end, both vehicles use and damage the road if it works on gasoline, diesel, bio diesel or gas. I therefore accept the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this HNS proposal and will support the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20480	Thank you very much, fellow MP. And the final application for the hearing, the distinguished colleague, Agent Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20481	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. So the proposal of the HNS Club is actually a very logical proposal. While Mr Nenadić, on behalf of the club, said that he did not know where 25 million kuna could be compensated, he was just the representative of the applicant in his opening presentation and suggested one of the possible solutions, which is that instead of this kuna and 20 which are paid by those who spend gas, the same type of charge is imposed and gas fuel, and that there is a possible solution, the gas price will continue to be lower than the price of gasoline. So I see Mr. Matušić listened well to what he liked but they overheard what was going on in favour of this proposal by Mr. Vincelj and HNS. And it's absolutely logical in all the jobs when dealing with money not to mix pears and apples. Therefore, if this fee is paid because of what the vehicle used by the road is spending, then it is equally spent regardless of whether it is a gas-powered or a fuel-powered vehicle. And on the other hand, this part that goes out of the fuel can be found there in some way a balance if you wanted to and if things could be done logically. Well, here's a reminder. The government must have politics, and when I say the government, I mean not only in this case the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure but also at least two other ministries that can participate in this story, which is the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So if the government's decision to encourage gas is because it's more environmentally acceptable then there should be one policy and there are two here if not three policies. Thus, the Ministry of Finance established measures to stimulate users of gas consumption for private vehicles and did not impose a excise duty and 20. On the other hand, the Ministry of the Sea introduces a fee of 550 kuna for cars and combined cars with gas-powered or deviating from the government's policy. Or the Ministry of Finance has deviated from the government's policy. Thus, a little more communication and coordination within the government may help resolve this issue in a fair and logical way. Even more logical, and even just. As far as other things are concerned, logic is another illogical thing, and that is that all those who pay this fee are once a year regardless of how many miles they're going to cross. I have to be this small-town patriot and say that the islanders are damaged by it because 12 times a day you go from Vis to Komiza where there are 10 kilometers and colleagues Marinović on smaller islands still can't mutilate the road that much for these few hundred kunas you pay. So we're a little damaged here, and to move to the mainland, we'd have to pay a ferry ticket that's actually maybe even bigger for a car than this fee. Thus, the same thing might be considered about the size of that fee, and I have actually heard from the citizens. Another illogicality also refers to islanders, people living on the coast or living off the coast and using boats. And that's when you buy a diesel at the gas station, put it in a boat's engine, pay the toll again for driving by the sea. So it's illogical. What would be logical if it already stands so if the state treats the sea and seaways as roads then it would be logical to co-finance the ferry lines and then the price of the ferry for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be as a toll on the highway and these costs of gasoline on the highway for the same distance. Well then, then it's not that big, it's not that big a price difference. That when it comes to paper, some countries have it, and Croatia may have it when we are already full of the island's mouth. So let me remind you of one return card on the Split-Supetar line not for the islanders but for the other citizens it costs 256 kuna. It's more than this Slovenian vignette we've all garnered against. Since this half-year. That's more than EUR 30 and a little bit as much as it is. So you can do the same. Therefore, if the price of this ticket from Split to Supetar were made, it would not be 126 kuna but would be about 30 to 35, up to 40 kuna depending on the price of gasoline. Therefore, I support this HNS proposal because it is logical and I hope that this government, as part of its care for the islands, will have this month and this debate or some other government within some other care, allow us not only to link the islanders with land-based prices of ferry tickets for cars, so I am talking about cars, but also to allow you who come to the island maybe once or twice a year to do so at a much more affordable price because we are glad to see you come and stay as long as possible. Stay, stay as long as you want, uh, as much as we expect that, in that sense, in the context of concern and concern, this situation tries to solve when the state already treats this sea-drive as a road trip when in that price we pay and compensation for the state, local and county roads, and then let us really have these blue roads that will be financed from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20482	Thank you very much. State Secretary Mr. Drazen Breglec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20483	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's just a few, a few answers to what was said in the debate. First of all, it is not a point or perhaps an opportunity, but it has been said, it has been mentioned to encourage the development of the island. A colleague... You would have shot a whole series of numbers here, but more than ever, the last five years have invested in the islands and invested in the islands, and that simply figures in another debate can prove it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I answered the debate in fact to comment and confirm that I agree with everything Mr. Shmrem said on behalf of the SDP Club except in his conclusion. Everything he said was true. And he said that the policy must lead, among other things, that the policy of a particular country must also take care that the price of using a gas vehicle is less than, half smaller, at least half the price of using a vehicle on gasoline or on diesel. So here throughout this year that price was moving from the current difference which is the smallest, it is 44% the price of Eurosuper is the current price of car gas. 30, 35 kuna, 3.35 kuna or... 60 is 44% and up to almost triple the price when the price approached 10 kuna and still the price of the car's gas was 3.35. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So all year round by government policy, if we are to say by not raising the price of car gas, that effect has been respected, and that effect has resulted in an increase in the number of cars per car gas from 35 to 50 thousand about this year, so I will once again refer to your speech and these several thousand jobs in this activity is the result of direct and abstention of the price-free car gas when there were arguments and when it could still remain the criterion below 50% and collect another few million kunas more. But that didn't happen, and that's exactly the best proof that the right policy has been conducted, and that's why I agree with what you said. Of course, the opposite would happen if we were to listen to the proposal from the proposer, which is to introduce an extra liter in the price of gas, because then these thin 44%, we got close to 50, and it might be 50% of the price of gasoline. So it's contradictory and expressed as an argument why it should stimulate gas vehicles. The European Union's policy in this area is also controversial when the proposal is adopted to impose additional burdens in a litre, in the price of a litre, or to introduce a litre of gas. That would probably go over 50% then. And in the end, I will repeat once again what I said in the introduction, and that is that the government will create a complete document of sustainable nature that will ensure such a price and such access to gas vehicles that will continue to be stimulating by the criteria of less than 50% compared to the price of classic fuels, liquid diesels and petrol fuels, but also other measures in that strategy and in that action plan, which can stimulate exactly the further trend of the increase of the vehicle to the gas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20484	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, distinguished colleague Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20485	So here is the conclusion on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club. None of the speakers were those of the opposition or of the work and at the head and with the secretary of state, they said anything contrary to this subject. That the type of propulsion fuel does not affect road damage, and we here have a decoded rule governing the fee paid for registration for the use of the road, i.e. damage to the road. All cars, whether they charge on car gas, gasoline, diesel, have four or more wheels, damage this road in the same way, and under this Regulation we have no right to take through additional loads of some who use other types of fuel. Of course, the state also has if it thinks it is necessary to use this mechanism to cancel out this difference in the use of gas, or gas, through the price of the car, but of course all the benefits of this fuel consumption should be avoided. The interest of the Republic of Croatia is to stimulate the introduction of a car of gas, because we have it at home and more than enough. We don't depend on world oscillations and speculation. And on these differences from 50% of the European Union country, many of them are imported by ingested oil gas, and they have this 50% difference, no reason for the Republic of Croatia to have its price policy on the plan to make the same difference when there is enough at home and more than enough of that car gas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20486	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20487	11th, Proposal for a conclusion on the Regulation on the level of annual compensation for the use of public roads to be paid for the registration of motor vehicles and connections. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in accordance with the proposal of the home parliamentary working body and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads, the proposal for a conclusion on the Regulation on the level of annual compensation for the use of public roads to be paid in the registration of motor vehicles and connected vehicles is not accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by a majority of 68 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 36 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20488	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Proposal for a conclusion on the Decision on the amount of compensation for spaces used by electricity generation facilities – Proposer: Club of HNS representatives and representative Dragutin Lesar Based on Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the materials into the boxes. The government delivered its opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20489	Thank you very much, dear fellow vice president. My colleagues and colleagues, we offer this very simple and short proposal of conclusions to the Parliament a solution which, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, would oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take the reading and discussion seriously again after many years to determine the amount of compensation for the premises used in electricity production facilities. In fact, since 1995 the decision has existed, there are probably reasons, circumstances, and conditions at that time, and in 95, there was an unfair relationship to the evaluation of space and the difference between the electricity production facilities and those involved in mining, the exploitation of mineral-rich mineral raw materials, which is why today we have a situation where what we call a mining rental compared to what we call a hydro rental is worth 1:10. In 97 C.E., the World Bank and the World Nature Protection Association established a worldwide ban commission because they saw that in all countries the resistance of local citizens is a problem due to the incursion of space on huge large areas when hydropower is being done. Unlike the facilities or the use or exploitation of mineral wealth and even those facilities for the production of electricity that use lubricating, gas or coal, in the case of hydrocentrals, in order to be able to exploit it at all, it takes a tremendously large procedure in space, and therefore, it is in these recommendations that states are advised that in each process and in obtaining the consent of the local population it is essential to pay great attention to the maintenance of... and the standard of living and the relationship and division of powers and benefits that are obtained by building such objects. In the Republic of Croatia, 52% of electricity is produced in hydropower plants. We have about 150 small or small hydropower plants and 23 large ones. On the river Drava three are especially large, and these are the hydropower plant Varazdin, Čakovec and Dubrava. I don't know how many of you have had a chance to see one of these hydropower plants live, how many of you have had a chance to see accumulating lakes or a lake for one of these plants, do you know that the drain canals from turbines, i.e. the hydrodes themselves to the old troughs are 20 to 25 kilometers long. That around the accumulated lakes is a canal of about 12 meters deep to pick up groundwater, and that these lakes are raised above the ground level of 25 metres. In order to obtain sufficient spillage and water flow, such technical solutions should be applied. The Dubrava hydropower plant takes nearly 17 km2, and Čakovec takes about 10.5-11. If these were to be added to the aggregate drains and the access routes that were to be built to function, then it is the area of 20-33 km2. How do hydropower plants affect the quality of people's lives? First, in the entire excerpt area, so upstream of the dam and the plant itself, there is always a huge rise in groundwater that has largely destroyed the housing fund. Increased or rising levels of groundwater have led to cities like Prelog and surrounding villages, all houses built before that with basements, instead of basements having swimming pools. Downriver, from dams and hydrocenters, the level of groundwater fell by about 15 meters, and all the old forests that have been there for centuries have simply disappeared. Furthermore, agricultural land that was the first category until then became the fifth category after 15 years of expansion, the pistachios, the gravel areas that could not be used to grow a series of agricultural cultures. They are today similar or suitable only as hunting grounds and nothing else. In order for the local community, local self-government to benefit from the remaining space, a tremendous amount of investment was needed both in transport and municipal infrastructure. I repeat that a large number of facilities, private-owned housing, had to be partially destroyed, destroyed, buried because it simply could not be used anymore. It's a '95 decision. The year brings this, so that for the hydropower plant Čakovec, which takes up about 30 square kilometers of annual fee for the use of this space in 2002 was one million and 218 thousand kuna, and these million and 218 thousand kunas were divided by the municipalities of Orehovica, Čakovec, Nedelisce in Međimurje County, Varazdin, Trnovec Bartolovsky and Sveti Đurđ in Varazdin County. Hydropower plant Dubrava million 215 thousand, area of the town of Prelog, Municipality of Saint Mary, Donji Vidovec, Donja Dubrava in Međimurje, Sveti Đurš, Mali Bukovec and Velika Bukovec in Varazdin County. If you think that there has been a more significant change in 2005 for the Čakovec hydropower plant or for the Čakovec hydropower plant, it has been paid for a one million-million-dollar hydrocarbon power plant, and for the Dubrava hydropower plant a million and 310 thousand. Why is that? Because the existing decision regulates that the compensation for the use of these facilities is 0,377 lipa per kilowatt hour of produced electricity. I'll repeat 0.377 lip per kilowatt hour of produced electricity. When this material was prepared the price kilowatt hours of electricity was 56 lipa. This means that the hydrogen is found at 0.673% of the electricity price, 0.6%. What do we have at the same time? According to the Ministry of Finance, which I received at my request, and in the same year 2005, the mining rental paid to municipalities, cities, or according to a specific decision was 122 million kuna. Most of this mining rental is obtained by municipalities in the area of Koprivnica-križevci County, and the strongest and most famous is certainly the Municipality of Molva, which annually receives more than 30 million kuna from that title. We are preparing this proposal, and we are just taught by the experience of Međimurje and Varazdin County are not jealous, we are not sorry that Molve and Koprivnica County have such generous incomes and we did not propose a reduction in the mining rent, because we really think that those who make the payments, and we see it by the final accounts and obtaining extra profit, must give the local community an adequate share of the compensation and thus damage it. I remind you further that the political agreement signed between the ruling HDZ and HSS and HSLS foresees, and later it was operationally and carried out to increase the mining rent from 2.6% to 10%. So, already these 122 million kunas that INA paid in 2005, it was estimated not to be, it does not correspond to the adequate compensation to the local community and the Parliament's decision has increased, i.e. through different changes to the law, the possibility that it is up to 10%. In the charge for hydrorent and use and hydrocenters, no one has proposed so far, nor negotiated to make any shift, and it remains at 0.3 lip per kilowatt hour. The government, giving its opinion and explaining the reasons why it is against, gave the following data, that HEP annually, according to the existing hydrorent decision, isolating municipalities and cities to imagine 47.9 million kuna. For all electricity-generating facilities in the country 47.9 million. What is this compared to INA 122 million mining rentals? The government goes on to say this, if our proposal were to be accepted to increase the 20 per cent by 2008, so that for HEP, it would mean that in 2008, we would have to pay off the 58.4 million hydrogen, so 10 million more, and that these 10 million kunas should be transferred to the price of electricity. This is not true at first, because only to lift the funding rate of sports clubs and teams that amount to more than 10 million kuna in HEP and produce losses from last year already, and from the medium-term development plan 2004 to 2008 from the planned thousand 54 megawatts of the new force managed to lead to some final phase... 40, 40. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, only one sentence that does not belong to the consumption of Croatian electricity could be saved and not talk about the need to collect electricity in Croatia. The government continued to calculate that if our proposal were to be accepted, that each year after 2008, it would be followed by an additional 20% increase in rent in 2013 to be 1,125 June, 1,125 June, so that HEP would be included in the increase and included that it would activate "Lesce"... and TE "Sisak" block c. I don't know if it will activate, because it is only planned to cost Croatian electricity in 2014 140 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How much will INA pay 2014 mining rent? From 2.6 to 7% on average if it's on average 7%? 480 million. So, when it comes to 480 million mining rentals that year, it's not too much, but for the 2014 hydrogen. 140 million you've been such a heavy burden. The government believes that Croatian electricity would not endure. Furthermore, the government's argument that accepting this proposal would mean an increase in the compensation of 174% even if the power went out that day in the government building or someone was using a computer on a caratite. Because if, that carabit lamps used instead of batteries or electricity. Because if you increase 0.377 lip to 1,125 lip and put on 56 lip sales prices, is that 174%, an increase in electricity prices? How can one lip on 56 lips affect 174%? I haven't understood that yet. I can't figure that out. Realisation of this conclusion does not require a June from the state budget. Not a single lip from the state budget. It doesn't require an increase in electricity prices. It just requires rational behaviour by the management of the Croatian electricity industry's resources not to deal with what is not their activity, but to justly damage the local community for facilities located on their territory and affecting their quality of life. These are the revenues of municipalities and cities of not the county. That money would be used by municipalities and cities. I believe that they would not use them for free parking, or privileged pensions and other things, nor should Santa Claus be banned in Croatia. If a hydrocenter such as "Chakovec" or "Dubrava", in 2013 instead of a million and 200 would receive a million and 800 shares between 6 or 7 municipalities or cities. Is that too much? Is that unacceptable, is that unwarranted? What do you think accumulating lakes of such enormous surfaces as these three affect human health? Now go to Međimurje and look at the mists. I hope I don't have to interpret any doctor in this room for a week when it's a consecutive fog in a boiler so that everything can affect the quality of life. And that's exactly what happened. Međimurie is locked up with three lakes huge. I do not want to believe that the reason for the rejection of this proposal is precisely the fact that the largest power plants are located in the northwestern part of Croatia and that it is a problem why it cannot be accepted. If it was unacceptable to increase 20% per year, it could be said that it's too much, so let's go now 10%. If it's unacceptable that it's too early, then let me quote you just one reply from the government. I quote "The electricity sector of the Republic of Croatia needs to be fully adapted to the European Union system and cost increases due to the increase in compensation for the facilities used by the electricity generation facilities cannot be made prior to structural adjustment to those conditions." When must Croatia finish negotiations? By the end of next year. So when does the time come when we have to do this? ... My colleague Vice President, I know this is funny to you, so you say it's Christmas Day. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You raised your own mining rental and your county to you because you blackmailed HDZ at the beginning of the formation of power and became involved in the agreement. But I'm telling you, the Međimurians aren't funny. Of the 122 million, 34 million are Molves. Well, now count your colleagues. ... He gets... even in the county of which. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What county was it? Yours, yes. [[- Well, it's mine.]] Yours. Don't be nervous, please. You don't need a reason. I'm in no hurry. I've got time. If you're in a hurry to go hunting, I don't mind. So it's obviously another example of not accepting it, because it's the promoter's fault. But you will refuse this because the government has said so. All right. But in this area that I am talking about, there is a tremendously large number of people who suffer the consequences of it every day. Who has problems every day and the municipalities are concerned, that now there is a minister of finance or a minister of the economy might say how much effort they make to boost the economy in their area by investing their own resources. You say, you don't deserve a drop of extra hydrorent resources because that's what we decided and then you'll get it when we decide you'll get it. I'll give that message to the people. I'll tell the people of Varazdin, the County of Međimurje, they won't, because they said they'll give when they decide and how much they decide. If something that's worth more than 95 is not subject to discussion and change, arguments, and not claims that we'll do it when we want to, then I don't know how else we should talk. And finally, for no lime, any prominence by accepting this proposal would not increase the price of electricity. For no promil, no lip would be threatened by the financial stability of the Croatian electricity industry because they have so many reserves in the representation items and the sponsorship of sports clubs that they can handle this without any pressure. If you don't believe me, ask your colleagues from those teams that sponsor annual contracts. Watch TV and any athlete with a HEP logo on his left shoulder is paid from these funds. That is why this cannot be approved that further instead of the state budget, instead of legally financing sports in Croatia we are doing this to finance sports from HEP, gas, forests, roads, highways and others. I want to believe that it may follow within the ruling coalition and talks on redefining the agreement. Perhaps it will come from that ruling coalition, let's say I'm sorry that my colleagues are not here. The Varazdins will be thrilled by his ignoring this subject. Perhaps the mining rental after it was solved and freed the space would allow even the ruling debate on hydro rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20490	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative, Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20491	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A third of the world's population is relying on the production of electricity through hydropower plants and hydropower plants with large dams and accumulations total produce 19% of electricity. In April 1997, under the auspices of the World Bank and the World Association for Nature Protection, the World Defence Commission was established by international experts who concluded among other things that the impact of dams and accumulations on the environment includes all people whose life, property and material good accumulation are affected. Therefore, the people affected by the accumulation must be recognised as the primary beneficiaries of the project, so protection mechanisms and models of benefit-sharing and profit-sharing must be determined by the joint action of the State and the unit of local self-government. The largest size of the accumulation in Croatia include hydropower plants on the Drava River, the Varazdin Hydropower Plant, Čakovec, Dubrava. The impact of these accumulations on the local population, the eco-system and micro-climate areas is huge. On the other hand, the amount of compensation paid to units of local self-government in which hydropower plants are located is embarrassingly low and in obvious disproportionate to all the negative aspects exposed to local communities as well as indirect costs caused by hydropower plants. Compared to that mining rental paid to local self-government units for oil and gas exploitation is multiplely higher than the compensation for hydropower plants, although the impact on the environment and the local population is incomparably smaller. Here, the coalition partners of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have resolved the increase in mining rentals from 2.6 to 10% while the increase in compensation for the areas used by electricity production facilities has no word. Currently, hydro rent in electricity prices is at 0.67%. It is known that residents who live directly by hydropower plants and especially by the accumulating lakes daily feel that these facilities have a strong, long-term and unchangeable effect on the environment and residents in their environment. For example, Hidroelectrica Dubrava and Hidroelectrica Čakovec whose water surface is 27 square kilometers, and if these are added, the earth's surfaces that belong to the nascules, inland waterways and access roads are about 33 square kilometers and Čakovec is 20 square kilometers, a total of 53 square kilometers. It is therefore no wonder that the report on the state of the Varazdin County environment for the period 2002 to 2005 states that after the construction of the Drava River hydroelectric power plants, almost all water was re-routed to electricity production plants, thus disrupting the continuity of the river flow, which has the greatest impact on the river's ecologicality and biodiversity and with irreversible consequences. With the destruction of habitats, species that are adapted to life in the fluids of accumulation also affect the change in water temperature, the accumulation of harmful compounds in fish that affect local health, and the erosion of the riverbed, affecting the fall of groundwater levels, drying of forests and plants, the reduction of yields on agricultural surfaces, and the lack of water in wells, with a decrease in air temperature of up to two to three degrees. Comrade Lesar said increased fog, there was a change in the entire eco system, migration of certain animal species and the arrival of new atypical for this climate, mosquitoes and other species of insects. All this directly affects the health and quality of life of people living in the area of hydropower plants. With this proposal of conclusions, we want to come up with an effective system that will take care of all aspects of the process of obtaining electricity from hydropower plants. The increase in compensation for the facilities used to produce electricity is only the first in a series of steps to be taken immediately to at least a little ease the life of the local population directly affected by all the negative influences caused by the hydropower plant. By increasing the fee from 0.37 lipa to 0.45 lipa per kilowatt hour in 2008 the fee would increase by 0.07 lipa, which is an increase of 0.13% compared to the price of electricity. If in 2013 a kuna fee and 12 gallons per kilowatt were determined, it would be 2% of the price of one kilowatt of electricity and we remind you that by yesterday, the level of the mining rent was 2.6%. The adoption of these conclusions and the Government and we here in parliament would fulfill the country's fundamental function to protect our citizens and reduce the differences that exist in different approaches in extracting oil, gas and the use of electricity facilities. We are aware that the increase in compensation for the areas it uses, which use electricity production facilities, has an impact on the cost of electricity production. However, the increase in this fee, for example in the first year, amounts to a circus of 0.13% of the electricity price. Not 13 or 1.3, but 0.13%. In the first year only 9 and a half million kunas more than HEP pays under the current system and later increased by 2013 would be at an annual level of 2 million kuna. Comparing the increase in fees for spaces used by power generation facilities in absolute amounts, not in percentages which the Government argues its negative opinion on this proposal, a whole series of questions to which citizens are entitled to answer are raised. Why does the Government of the Republic of Croatia not see the need to at least make life easier for the population directly affected by all the negative impacts caused by hydropower plants and accumulated lakes? This is more about the absolute amount of increase far lower than the amount that HEP sponsors amateur sports, especially so on. professional sport as a public enterprise, a company owned by the citizens of this country without the possibility that these same citizens can influence what they pay through electricity consumption. Why does the government not want to correct the difference between the compensation for the areas it uses, which use facilities to produce electricity and four times the amount of mining rents? Only because it's an opposition order proposal. Did coalition partners, when dealing with the increase in mining rentals from 2.6 to 10%, take care of citizens living next to the spaces used by electricity production facilities since the government gave a negative opinion on this proposal for a conclusion. Finally, we in Croatia remind the People's Party that tolerance is the obligation of the majority, but we are also aware that by not accepting these conclusions, the majority of this Parliament will not fulfil the basic function of the state, which is to protect its citizens and reduce the differences it has caused itself with different approaches to the use of oil and gas or in this case of electricity-generating facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20492	Thank you very much. Next to discuss, a distinguished colleague, Goran Beus Richembergh, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20493	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I want to protest with my discussion against this attitude of the government that must bear responsibility for the behaviour of the main investor in the construction of a system that produces energy, electricity with water. This is a closed system in which citizens first lie about the consequences of building such buildings? And then, through such a miserable little hydro rental, it doesn't allow local communities to at least part of those impacts that are primarily negative for those living in this area to be remedied through different forms of local investment that will improve the quality of life of citizens. We're talking about objects that have already been built, but here we're going to mention one that hasn't yet. The environmental impact study for the construction of Drenj hydropower plant has recently been presented to the public. And if you were to read that study, you would see that it only writes in it and exclusively what are the possible positive effects of building such a hydropower plant. Obviously, it is thoughtless of what will happen in the wider area of the Turopoly plant or in Turopoljski, and a lot of ugly things could happen. Increasing the level of groundwater by building the Drenje hydropower plant would directly disrupt not only the eco system but also the healthy lives of the people in the region. We must be aware that several thousand people live in this area and that the technology of building housing units was such that over 90% of all septic caves are permeable and that the rise of underground waters is a terrible danger of mixing fecal waters, underground waters and waterholes of one of the largest in Croatia, it is the water-fitting site of Crnkovec-Kosnica. And not only that, but the rise of groundwater directly endangers the existing water supply system that is vulnerable. The investor did not include in the project the construction of the Drenje hydropower plant at all the possibility of resupplying the system or building a disposal system without talking about what it means to build such a single facility for people who are engaged in agriculture. Here is Minister Bozo Biskupić, and I'm glad he's here, he knows very well what it is when I say that raising groundwater will endanger archaeological excavations in the wider Andautonia area. No more digging. Furthermore, all agricultural cultures must change. All those who do not tolerate shallow water must move. How do you do that? How will the local community deal with this challenge if the hydro rent is what it is? Let's look into the truth. It cannot be resolved by the local community without the responsibility of the legislative body, without responsibility for this problem. The more it won't cost the citizens a single drop of electricity. And not to mention what our energy and transmission system is like, how much energy is actually lost because of the old technology. It's a whole other story. Therefore, the correction of our position because we are the ones who have to conclude on the decision on the amount of compensation for the premises used by electricity generation facilities is directly our responsibility. That's why I'm calling, calling for responsibility and calling for the awareness of this problem. Unable to access mining rent in one way and hydro rentals in another way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20494	Thank you very much. Further to the debate, a distinguished colleague, representative Nadica Jelas, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20495	Thank you very much, Deputy Vice President, I apologize to the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I just need to say a few words about this HNS Club proposal. In this proposal, we know that the Republic of Croatia is more than half, so 52% of electricity is provided by hydroelectric power plants. Among the hydro power plants as my predecessors have already said with the largest accumulations are those on the Drava River of which two, so the Chakovec hydro power plant and the Dubrava hydro power plant are right in my Međimurje County. The impact of these accumulations on the local eco-system, on the micro-climate and local population is unmistakably large, so I stress that 126 000 people live in Međimurje County and this is the densest populated area in the Republic of Croatia. After the construction of a hydro power plant on the Drava River, a lot of negative happened. Almost all water supply is being rerouted to power plants. The continuity of the river flow has been interrupted and this has had a major impact on river ecologicalism and biodiversity, with irreversible consequences. Accumulations are by their nature of the barn and their hybrid eco system is important from the former, so from the river eco system but also from the eco systems of other natural habitats such as lakes. In addition to the destruction of habitats of species that are adapted to life in liquids, the accumulation affects both the change in water temperature and the accumulation of harmful compounds in fish that live there and the erosion of the riverbed, and which again affects the decline of groundwater levels, the drying of forests and plants, the reduction of yields on agricultural surfaces, the lack of water in wells, etc. Of course, accumulations have a direct impact on the micro-climate, as they reduce air temperature as much as two to three degrees. What counterpart Lesar was talking about is indeed a major problem in Međimurje. It's fog. There is a change in the entire eco-system, the migration of individual species to the arrival of new atypical for this climate. So, up to mosquitoes and other species of insects. All of this has a very adverse impact on the health and quality of life of people living in the area and these people and their units of local self-government need some compensation. And the compensation to units of local self-government in which these hydropower plants are located is extremely low and is in great proportion to all the negative aspects that are exposed to these local environments, which I was just talking about earlier. At the moment, this fee, i.e. the hydro rent for the water power plant Čakovec, is 0.385 lip per kilowatt hour, and for the hydro power plant Dubrava 0,377 lip per kilowatt hour. As the average selling price is a kilowatt hour of electricity is 56 limes, it turns out that the fee in that price participates with a small 0.673%. Unlike hydro rentals, mining rentals paid to local self-government units for oil and gas exploitation are incomparable even though the negative impact of this exploitation on the eco system and the local population is far, far lower. Moreover, an increase in mining rentals has been announced from current 2.6 to 10%, and there is no mention of an increase in hydro rent. If, in accordance with the proposed conclusions of the HNS club in 2013, a fee of 1,125 casting per kilowatt hour would be determined, it would only be 2% of the price of one kilowatt of electricity and hydro rent. So she just approached the mining rentals and that would be a slightly better compensation to local self-government units for all the negative effects they have to deal with because of these huge accumulations. Given the fact that I'm a Međimurka, but even so, I support this proposal from the HNS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20496	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, does the Proposer want the final word? Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20497	Very short. I forgot to say before for the truth. By preparing this proposal, we have respected the principle that we are bound by the Convention on Local Self-Government and asked the association of municipalities and associations of cities and the community of counties what they think of this proposal. And the association of cities was obvious about it. You got it with the material. The county community said it supports what the cities said, and in the meantime the association of municipalities discussed and took their views and they are aware that it is their right, their money I am sure would be able to master properly. I'll try to use the last argument. I don't know if you can see that's lipa. The fee isn't lip, it's 0.3 lip. According to this proposal, only in 2009 would the fee be half of it. I can cut it off, so you can see. And in 2013 the fee per kilowatt hour would be one lip. So, I'm talking about it, nothing else. If that's too much, if that's not an understanding to make that step goes in favor of all citizens. This is neither a political issue nor a party topic. This is a topic of the rights of citizens living there, who expect the state to make up for lost for the general good used by all in Croatia. The current isn't local. This electricity from these plants is not only used by citizens of Međimurje, Varazdin County or in Sisak and Zagreb, but throughout Croatia. That's what this is about. I repeat. If it's '95. When the decision was made, there were reasons and elements, war, structure, electricity crisis in Dalmatia, supply interruptions, all of what we've been through, none of these reasons exist in 2008. It's not about getting into state money, it's about the state budget, there wouldn't be any new burden, and there's room. I want to believe that you will consider before the vote, regardless of the government's position and opinion, and support this team the more this topic in the operational implementation sense is only in the government's jurisdiction, but Parliament has the right to commit to a single problem in one part of the state that has been observed to be justly solved. In that hope, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20498	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20499	Twelveth, Proposal for a conclusion on the decision on the amount of compensation for premises used by electricity generation facilities Proposer Club of Representatives HNS and independent representative Dragutin Lesar. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in accordance with the proposal of the Croatian Government's national parliamentary body and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads, the proposal for a conclusion on the decision on the amount of compensation for the premises used for the production of electricity is not accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by the majority of 70 votes in favour and one abstention and 33 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20500	And let's go to the next proposal, which is - Proposal for a conclusion on the Regulation on the single register of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War – Proposer: The club of representatives of the HNS We received material in boxes. We've also received the government's opinion. They discussed committees. The debate was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans and the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Professor Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20501	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In some ways, the proposal for these conclusions is now much more urgent and current if it is in any way possible than it was when we originally sent and proposed it. The current and more urgent and perhaps that is why it is not the smartest to hide it in these late hours in the assembly because it is a really urgent and current need to protect a population that, in terms of economic crisis and all economically sensitive populations, will be one of the first to be hit, since in the economic crisis, of course, different forms of intervention to protect the most sensitive population or segments of the most sensitive in one society is protected by the first to suffer and the first to hit. Bearing in mind that our end of negotiations and the entry into the Union and the Institute of Areas of Specific State Care, where there are certain benefits in fiscal terms, will have to be done. This further provides an argument to clarify the situation that we have regarding the register of Croatian defenders, to clarify the situation that we have with half a million people in that register and to ensure that the population that really represents the defenders of the Homeland War are at least permanent, because as we all know in many cases it is really minimal, at least there is some kind of security or some kind of financial security within the system. What's this about? The proposal for a conclusion of the HNS Club refers to two moments. It is one thing to change the decision by declaring the overall register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War a secret and to define the general part of the single register publicly. The second proposal for a conclusion is, after doing so, that the general part of the register of Croatian defenders is published on the websites, so that it is in fact made available to the public. In a way, I think it actually looks almost incredible that it hasn't been done so far. That would have achieved at least two things if it had been done by now. One is in the general population, so all people who really defended Croatia in the Homeland War would show public recognition and respect, and they would say here are those people. Not some others who have walked away, not some others who have pushed themselves in different ways, such as the 1st and 2th cases, or as they've all been called, have shown themselves, but indeed these are the people who are defenders of the Homeland War. Secondly, it would solve a problem that I think we all understand and that there is no special explanation and that there is no person in the Republic of Croatia who does not understand it, that there are no half a million defenders. In fact, half a million people were involved in the Homeland War as defenders. In that way, the permanent suspicion of half a million defenders would be removed from that population too. It's a question of who's been walking away in some way. This is how you have a clear picture and no one's sneaking around. The government's opinion in this regard is negative, so the government believes that this general single registry of Croatian defenders should not be published. That's two arguments for that. The first to sound almost surreal is that it cannot be published because of the government's trio. In other words, Parliament cannot by its decision or by its conclusion commit the executive power to do anything. If that were true, it would be the end of every country as it is of course clear to you all, since the government itself stems from this Parliament's decision. So the Government was elected by this Parliament, and not to say that as far as the conclusions of this Parliament are concerned, we have already committed to the government countless times, and very often when these decisions were received or these proposals received by the majority, the government had to and of course carried out those conclusions and those obligations which Parliament had committed it with. Therefore, the argument of the trio of the government must have been planted by someone, because it really is not rational. The second argument that the government makes when it talks about reasons why it is not necessary to publish a general part of the single register of Croatian defenders is that it is classified and that it would somehow violate fundamental freedoms and human rights, security and confidentiality of personal data. Now, the government is calling for the opinion of the Personal Data Protection Agency, whose opinion, however, is not that such data should not be published, nor that it must not be published, nor that it is a violation of any right to publish those data. The opinion of the agency is simply that the government doesn't have to. That's true. The Agency thinks that according to existing rules, the Government is not obliged to publish that information. That's clear, but if the government were bound to, they wouldn't discuss it here in the Parliament. We are now proposing as a club of HNS these conclusions in order for the government to become obliged to publish it, but the bans and bans are neither in the opinion of the agency nor anywhere else. So no one has said anywhere these data can't be published because they're disrupting privacy, etc., but only that the government doesn't have that obligation. It is quite clear, just to begin to have that obligation, we are making a proposal for these conclusions that are before you today. Just a few more sentences, let's say intensity. Namely, the assumption that the publication of the data is in any way harmful or harmful or disturbing to Croatian defenders stems from the assumption that there is anyone who is a Croatian defender who would be ashamed of it and who would be embarrassed to know that she or he were Croatian defenders. It's not like that, of course, and of course it's not true. What is true, however, is that it is absolutely certain that among those half a million people there are some who would be seriously ashamed and who are seriously afraid to publish the register, because then their members, families and their fellows and people who were in fact in the Homeland War and who are defenders of the Homeland War, that some of those, of the half a million who would have been published if that general part of the register had been published, were not and that different relationships, who knows what combinations they were able to push into a population that they did not belong to, that they were illegal, not only illegal, but falsely representing themselves as Croatian defenders to collect money that does not belong to them, but belongs to Croatian defenders. And the whole purpose of these conclusions and the suggestions of these conclusions is not to enter into anyone's privacy because the Personal Data Protection Agency itself says that's not the case. It is not that in any way, nor in any of the Croatian defenders who would be ashamed to have his name or her name on the list and on the Internet as a person who was a Croatian defender, but directed only at those who take it, falsely representing money intended for Croatian defenders. In the situation in which we are entering and we have already entered a serious economic crisis, it is, in any case, morally unacceptable, and also legally punishable, and in a situation where we are entering a serious economic and financial crisis, it is, of course, the most dangerous for the defence population and the most dangerous thing is that of course, those half a million people who are in the register will not be able to take care of them in this way and will not be able to get what they really were Croatian defenders deserve and, of course, the reputation, and also the financial most suffered by Croatian defenders. Therefore, in this respect, I recommend these conclusions of my colleague and colleagues, to remind you of the conclusions, first of all to supplement the rule on the single register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War in a way that the general part of the single register is declared public, the benefit directly to Croatian defenders and secondly that the general part of the single register, after it has been declared public and made public and made public, will therefore be published on the Internet where it will naturally serve the honour of all women and men who were defenders, and to the shame of all who entered and falsely represented themselves for what they were not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20502	Thank you very much. The first correction of the alleged, distinguished counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20503	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, in a series of inaccuracies, I will correct an incorrect allegation in which it is established that such a proposal for conclusions that would be complemented by the rule of law can energise the legal basis and even the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This is absolutely incorrect and this cannot be done because the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 37 made it clear what is the security and secrecy of personal data, Mrs Pusic. Also, the 2003 Law on the Protection of Personal Data, 2006, clearly explained that personal data were arranged and protected in the case of natural persons. Any other such suggestion is an absolutely missed case.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20504	Thank you very much. As a member of the government, we are reporting and giving our word to the Secretary of State, Mr Krunoslav Mesaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20505	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the esteemed representatives. The government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal, the conclusion on a rule on the single register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, which was submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party. The proposal for a Regulation on the single register of Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War is not based on regulations governing the jurisdiction of individual authorities of the administration, the area of personal rights and freedoms, the area of protection of the confidentiality of defence data and the area of protection of personal data. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament lays down the position on certain events and phenomena, and on the basis of an assessment of the situation in a given authority, they can take views and express their views or establish obligations to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the ministries and other authorities of the state administration. In a formal legal sense, this proposal lays down the obligation of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. However, the content of points one and two of the proposals raises the question of the competence of individual authorities of the legal justification of the established obligations and the limits of the powers to adopt implementing rules which may only be laid down by law. In accordance with the Constitutional principle of government division, the Executive Authority shall exercise the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which shall be in accordance with Article 112 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be responsible for the implementation of the laws and other decisions of the Assembly. Under the Law on the System of State Administration, the tasks of the State Administration are the direct implementation of the law, the adoption of regulations for their implementation, the exercise of administrative supervision and other administrative and professional transactions, and, in accordance with Article 17 of the law referred to above, the ministers shall adopt regulations, orders and guidelines for the implementation of the laws when they are authorised to do so within the limits of the powers given. Taking into account those provisions and the contents of the proposed conclusion which, in addition to the obligation to supplement the Regulations, the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that this conclusion is to enter into the structure previously governed by the law as a higher legal act, in order to develop certain provisions of the law for the purpose of their application as implementing regulation. In addition, point 2 of the draft conclusion shall be entrusted to the Ministry of Obligation which is not laid down by law or by law based on a sublegal act which may only be adopted within the limits of the powers laid down by law. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is therefore of the opinion that by acting on the basis of the rights and powers established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament may only establish those obligations which are based on the law and sublegal acts, which are referred to by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament itself, which determines that the conclusions which determine the views are expressed or determine the obligations of the Government, ministries and other bodies are made on the basis of an assessment of the situation in each authority. In addition to the above reasons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is of the opinion that the proposed conclusions cannot be accepted for the following reason. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees fundamental freedoms and human rights in Article 37. The Constitution guarantees the security and secrecy of personal data. Without the consent of the subject, personal data may be collected and processed and used only for the conditions laid down by law. The law regulates data protection, as well as control of the operation of information systems in the country. The use of personal data contrary to the intended purpose of the collection shall be prohibited. The Personal Data Protection Act has been established to protect personal data on natural persons and to monitor the collection, processing and use of personal data in the Republic of Croatia. Article 1(2) of that Law provides that the purpose of the protection of personal data, the protection of private life and other human rights and fundamental freedoms is to collect and process and use personal data. Article 7 on the protection of personal data provides that personal data may continue to be collected. In addition to the consent of the subjects only for the purpose of which the subject is as a consent or in cases of a certain law or for the purpose of expressing the legal obligations of the controller of the personal data collection or for the purpose of collecting contracts in which the subject is a party or for the purpose of protecting the life or physical integrity of the subjects or other person in the case where the subject is physically or legally unable to give his consent, or where the processing of the data is necessary in order to fulfil the task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public authority which has the controller of the personal data collection, or if the subject has published that data. It follows from that article that Article 108(1) of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is the legal basis for the collection and distance of personal data which have the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and the rule on the single register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War as a sublegal act has established a way of collecting and keeping data on the single register of Croatian defenders. The unique register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War is an official record of the participation of registered persons in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, run by the ministry under the law. The use of official records is prescribed in Article 171(1). The General Administrative Procedure Act. The Ministry as a body of the state administration and a minister as head of the body shall be obliged to issue data from the official records in accordance with the register as official records to those persons who, by law, have the right to request such data. However, the register could not have been established without data collected and registered by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior under the appropriate protection mark. It is nothing new if it is noted that data on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War recorded in the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior and today as before the delivery of data to the Ministry of Permanently protected data and that no person could have obtained any information from the records of the Office of Defence data on the reserve members of the Croatian Army, information on the members of the Croatian Army or from the Ministry of Defence’s records of active members of the Croatian Army or from the records of internal affairs data on active and reserve members of the Ministry of the Interior. Data obtained from the competent authorities for the purpose of making registers are protected so that under protection and personal data on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, name, father name, date and place of birth, sex, place of residence, home address, rank. These data are no less protected from data from a specific part of the register and the name of the unit which issued a certificate of participation in the Homeland War and data on the duration of participation in the Homeland War. Therefore, data on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who have been entered into the register received from the competent authorities of the administration form a protected whole and cannot be separated from the specified level of secrecy by the name, last name, parent name or date of birth from the general part of the register. Since the applicant proposes to publish only the general part of the register, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is of the opinion that the general part of the register is also protected by the appropriate protection mark and cannot be made public because a measure of the protection of the confidentiality of data is in force. Since it is still possible to make an insight into the Offices of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior only with personal information on participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, this is not possible only because the data from the competent authorities of the administration have been copied into the register. Public publication of the register in the general section would mean as well as data from the general part of the register. The Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity do not have a legal obligation to publish the register and such obligations cannot be established by law, given that such legal provisions would be unconstitutional. The only two purposes for the collection of data in the register are the enforcement of the legal obligation to recognise the right to shares or shares in companies without charge, as provided for in Article 51. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families to issue a card to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Any other use of personal data would be contrary to the stated purpose and thus the use of data for the purpose of public publication of personal data is contrary to Article 37. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It should be pointed out that the state of recognition of the rights of defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is very good as well as the fact that, based on data from the National War register, Croatian defenders and members of their families are able to exercise the right to purchase shares from the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families, and there is no need or basis for the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament which are not based on regulations to assign the ministry to obligations that do not have legal basis. As far as the Data Protection Agency is concerned, you got it with the material. On the third side of the last paragraph or second from above, it is said: "By the provisions of Article 6. The data protection law may be collected for the purpose of which the subject is aware which is explicitly stated and in accordance with the law and may continue to be processed only for the purpose for which they have been collected, i.e. which is consistent with the purpose of the collection, and it is apparent that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has no legal assumption that these data from the register are published.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20506	Thank you very much. We have two reports of correction of the quote. First respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20507	It is incorrect that the government's representative said the government cannot publish the register because they represent a secret under the Personal Data Protection Act. It is a complete play of almost all provisions of the Personal Data Act that have to protect some personal data of a particular person. And you see, being a public defender is a public duty. It's the greatest honor and duty. Our defenders didn't go undercover, sir, nor did they have anything to hide but it's being set up. ... They were all public tasks in the interest of Croatia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Compared to the enemy, they might have been tactical, but I'm not going into tactics here. I ask you a question in the fight against corruption that the government protects, and why is it povertying the funds that are meant for true defenders? There will come a moment when you will truly regret what you are doing today and keep your mouth shut, keep this secret because true defenders are primarily asking for that information to be published. Because of that data, certain rights arise, and the availability of state property can never be a secret. A secret may be available to your property that you transfer to someone, which we are not interested in. But as long as it's managed by the property that belongs to all of us, that's generally good. [[Employee: The alleged lady MPs correct.]] and general, general information. [[/Intruder: Time. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20508	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20509	Mr. Vice President, Article 209 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure because Mrs. Anticevic did not correct the incorrect allegations of the secretary of state. She went further into matter wanting to present corruption in the ranks of defenders by who knows which times Which times did you want to show false defenders, fake people with disabilities? [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] You have tried 100 times to publish a list of fake people with disabilities, and so has Darko Bestek and General Private Marinović to make false people disabled, which, unfortunately, did not work out. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20510	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by a respected colleague, Boris Šprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20511	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State Meseliæ, you said that the register cannot be published because, among other things, you said that, but it is very important, contrary to Article 37. The Constitution. Now I have to read you something. This Regulation shall enter into The Constitution states: Everyone is guaranteed the security and confidentiality of personal data, and now this is important, without the consent of the respondents, so the person whose data are concerned, personal data can be collected, processed and used only under the terms of a certain law. So do you recognize that there are legal obstacles to the publication of the register? That's what you have to say. You didn't say that. That's all I'm saying. It's not the Constitution of obstacles. It can only be the law, but that's what you have to say. I know where the obstacle is if it is, but you, but you said it was the Constitution. The constitution is not an obstacle.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20512	Thank you. And a representative of the promoter, please choose the esteemed representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20513	Thank you very much. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to discuss this in the frames of some. So I'm not going to respond to everything the government official has read. That's what I'm gonna do at the end of the debate. I just want to warn the government of something they should know. Namely, all this information that you're talking about, and I don't think you need to answer those data relating to data from the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of the Interior, because it's not the subject of a proposal for these conclusions. They refer only to the first general part of the register. All this information, I must warn you, has already been published, of course. All that data, every list not to say every party, every list running in the election gets a CD. You've got, you have in your party. Thousands of people have seen it and everyone in the party can see it. We've got, so you've got every party and every independent list that competed and ran in the election has that data, it's got that data only what doesn't, and it's not just about defenders, so the name, address and all this. Not just about the defenders, but about everyone. All voters, all people with voting rights in Croatia. The difference in this is that the data you've all already got is just to indicate which of those people with the data that you already have are defenders. That's all. And all this argument that you can't name, last name, the address everyone has. That's what we passed and regulated with another law. Therefore, this data is available to anyone who has ever participated in a political game. Without further ado. And each of us can use that data and use it of course. She sends those letters and everything. Well, that's based on that data. That's what we legalized. That data exists. And this, the obstacle to this is not the law because if it were the law, we would be asked to change the law. The obstacle to this is the rule adopted by the Minister because it is not prevented from publishing this information by law or by the Constitution, but by regulation. And that's why you're asking for a change of rules. But I repeat the information we're talking about here is no longer a secret. We all have them on CDs. The only thing we don't have is a clue in some people whose data we already have a much wider group than defenders is a sign that they are defenders or have a formal status as defenders. So let me explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20514	Thank you very much. Application for correction of the quote, distinguished colleague Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20515	Mr. Vice President, I'll fix it one more time. It is incorrect to state that the prohibition of the publication of the data is defined by the Regulation. You didn't read the rule book. If you'd read it, you'd see it's not like that. She's really a legal obstacle stemming from the law. I read what law? Done in 2003, 2006. 2008 103 of 2003, 118 of 2206 and 41 of 2008 These are legal grounds and you've made a mistake, and I told you in the proposal that you should have suggested that we change the law to take down the rules of the law and then return them again. It was wrong of you, mistaken in the proposal of this particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20516	Thank you. We're going over there and I'm opening a debate. The first came to the debate with a distinguished colleague, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20517	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, to appeal to the Constitution in this case and to be hypocritical in the context of human rights, that's amazing. This is just one of the many public lists that do not threaten human rights at all but threatens the rights of potential law breakingers. If they have any right to secrecy. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Personal Data Protection Act states that data can or may be collected continue to be processed with the consent of respondents or in cases of a certain law. The cases were laid down by a law that regulated the issue of registers, which is the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and their families. As a consequence, it is governed by the Regulation. The Regulation clearly states what is the general, which is the specific part of the register. The minister you have been representing here for months has assured the Croatian public that the register cannot be published because a unique number of citizens is listed in its general section. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary of State, who you represent here, the government, where the regulations say it's in the general part of JMBG. Who allowed you to enter the general section of JMBG. Will you answer for breaking the law and regulations? So you came up with an action that blocked the entire system. Why? Because there's a clientelistic intention in this case, a clientelistic intention and I'll tell you why. The state has treated its honorary defenders as each state must treat the people who defend it. It allowed them to be recognized first, to acknowledge that everything they lost in the war in some way was never completely regrettable because it was impossible to make up for it, to provide them with social rights, to enable them to live, to be able to recognise the disability if they were wounded, to enable them to share in defence funds, to be allowed under privileged conditions of supply of motor vehicles, to allow them privileged conditions of credit, to be allowed to be hired under privileged conditions. That's what the state did, and it's good for her. But aren't we aware that that fat chick has fallen into the eyes of many of those far away from the defenders? So who wouldn't have such a package of God's grace that would have been said because the state must take care of those who are depressed, stuck to an eye. Who? To the unemployed and those who want to exercise a right that does not belong to them. And what did you do? You've also covered it with the secrecy of the register. The other day I spoke to a colleague from Velika Gorica who reminded me, this is not the first attempt to access data to allow honest and honorable people to live and not to wear any labels to the public, to the media, or to the irresponsible individuals that all defenders are the same. No, they're not. Still Minister Juraj Njavro rested his soul tried to audit him and invited him, this acquaintance of mine to be part of a commission that was supposed to review all these lists in Velika Gorica. Not Peru, Pero's ours. Let Mark go, you know that's him. Of the 10 it was a case for a few of them. After the first round that lasted seven days, the man thanked and said goodbye. That man is, by the way, a PTSD lawyer from day one. It's a man who can't watch TV because he's so upset. That's the man who told me you'll never make it. It's a clientistic... I'm asking you isn't this particular approach actually criminalizing the Homeland War? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Isn't it just the creation of a model that's gonna hide one on the table, one on the thousand, that doesn't matter at all? Crime of people who honor the status of defenders of the Homeland War. I personally have met none other than Josip Djakic of all the defenders who told me he did not want to publish this register. Why is Mr. Djakic like HVIDRA's president? I don't know. He probably knows better than that. But not one of the only defenders I spoke to in my town was against it. Everyone says we're about to get published. The diagnosis 1 and 2 showed no false defenders, but a false increase in disability and an increase in certain benefits. So is it possible that what was written by Free Dalmatia is true that of the 12000 excluded medical documents, that over 10,000 were forged. So is that possible? Well, you probably know that better than I do. Diagnosis 1 and 2 to some level has been performed. No one alive knows what's going on next. Two, three local doctors are somewhere in an investigation, and where Diagnosis 3 would refer to the city of Zagreb. Well, in the city of Zagreb and central Croatia, I guess it's the heart of everything, just because we're the most in this area. Where's Diagnosis Three? So what do you think people who lost their health on the battlefield are easy to read in the papers when it's said to be simple forgeries. People use what doesn't belong to them. So how are they? They feel hit. It gives birth to additional frustrations in people who have fought honestly and honestly and who have truly gained the status of defenders with honor and honesty. They're put in the same basket with everyone else. It's not easy for them to listen to these stories of ours and ask for it to finally end. How? By publishing the register and seeing who was where he was. So I'll remind you recently there was that case of a local defense association wondering who that man was testifying in The Hague. Well, we've never seen him on the battlefield. Who prevented him from examining where he was and whether he was ever on the battlefield. Well, it's this particular register that's been blocked like this so it can't be published. If it were possible to access that data, no one would have thought to go to any Haag to testify, if he really hadn't been there and seen and heard what he wanted to testify about. I don't know what's wrong with individuals. Mr. Djakic, you've been here longer than I have. You know, I'm your beginner in this whole story, but you're a well-heated chair, so you probably know a lot better about this. But I'm asking you, it's you, ma'am, please. Please, nice! Ma'am, please, you'll have time. Call for a discussion if you have anything to say. This is a very important question and the fact that we talk about it so late, that the public doesn't even know we're here and that we're talking about it. Well, that's just in itself defeating us! Mr. Djakic, as president of HVIDRA, should be of interest to you to make this debate as public as possible, to have as many people as possible, to bring your arguments to as many people as possible and that if I'm wrong, if someone else is wrong to finally tell us people you're wrong. But that's not what most citizens of this country think, Mr. Djakic. You have to face it. If you can carry that burden, it's an honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20518	Thank you. Correction of the quote, fellow representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20519	Mr. Vice President, I have to react, correct Mr. Beus' incorrect claim where he claimed that this dispublishment and disapproval of the publication of the register is that criminalization is a further Homeland War. It is absolutely incorrect and embarrassing of you who know who you are, along with your president by who knows which times they called the Croatian Armed Forces that the aggressors in Bosnia and Herzegovina were first. You who persecuted Croatian defenders during the coalition government and who took away over 1500 parents and widows of the Homeland War, who later in the administrative process, received the same rights with interest and damaged the state budget along with former Minister Pancic. It's your work. These are your honors. The defenders also said to the Veterans Committee, which has not been read today, that in most cases, it is not published, that it is not manipulated and that it does not lay waste to honorary and glorious names as you have done many times. They also said what would happen on the Defence Committee to be read. The defenders said clearly and unequivocally that they did not want to politicize with their names.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20520	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20521	Mr. Vice President, I remind you of article 209 that says the MP has to say what he's correcting. ... He didn't fix anything, he just confirmed my quote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is really the criminalization of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20522	In one part he was correcting, and then he got a little carried away. Let's move on with the debate. A distinguished colleague representative, Ranko Ostojic, applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20523	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow representatives, the honourable representatives of the government, with a special greeting from Minister Bishop whom I must congratulate on his patience and always the presence and presence here in our Parliament, so I thank him because I think that unlike many others he is very patient and ready to hear what his representatives have to say. In the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the defence of the Republic of Croatia is written as one of the fundamental things, I will not say the obligation but the honor of everyone to participate and defend their country. In that part, I agree with those who say that hiding the names of every person who defended her country is a shame. And I agree with those who say that, that those who have fulfilled their most honorable duty to defend the country against the aggressors, that it be a secret list. This is what in the metric with all the reasons Mr. Secretary of State gave us and taught us a lesson in which way and with which all the legal regulations etc. The Parliament is the most legislative body in this country unable to force the administration to do something, and I will still appeal to the Constitution and to Article 35, which says that everyone is guaranteed the respect and legal protection of his personal and family life, dignity, reputation and honor. You could have led yourself to have those who are interested in protecting that honor by publishing those who are wickedly on that list. It's not about persecution or generalization, it's about finally facing a situation that has truly fulfilled its duty of honor and who belongs to the blue Croats. I simply do not agree to this variant that those who have fulfilled their defences by, that they have kicked in the chest and yelled at me Croatian, I Croat, that it was enough to recognize their status and to share the fate of all those who, among other things, are going to remind you, defend Vukovar. What gets me especially, which is when someone's on behalf of all the defenders is talking. I was also on the Committee on War Veterans, therefore today I speak as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and keep silent about whether or not I am a defender. I think everyone has the right to ask such a question on behalf of this country, in the name of the defense that was made. I also want to remind you that no one asked me when it was removed from that register and when I was sent a card with the signature of the Deputy Prime Minister of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. No one asked me for permission. When he printed hundreds of thousands of these cards, he didn't ask if he could send them, if he could put them on the press, if he could use it. Also when we came here to the Parliament and when we were filling in our data, no one asked us if our name would come out and sit on websites and so on. because in the end it is a special honor to be a representative of the Croatian Parliament. In that part, I see that everyone who participated, who really fought for Croatia against the aggressors, because since 8.10.1991, when this Parliament declared who was the aggressor and when it declared who was the occupation army, everyone who participated afterwards had won the status of defenders, I hope it deserved, but I'm sure it'll only be clear when we really believe it and when we're proud that over 500 thousand people defended this country. I don't believe that. And that's why I want to, for all of my colleagues, citizens and friends, I want to know if these are really people who I have to call them, on that list pure war profiters. Whoever didn't take the gun, whoever didn't defend this country doesn't deserve to be on that list, and that's the measure of this story. This is what you need to do and it is in the interest of Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20524	Thank you. A further esteemed colleague, Boris Sprem. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Why taboo? Why the dam? Why secrecy? Because you have to protect tens of thousands, I'm going to say something about it in the end, I doubt it still and I hope that's not true. The ones that didn't smell gunpowder, but they're on the gunpowder list. I doubt that's the case. I hope that someday you or me or someone else will remove my suspicion. On the privileges that come to this, the gentleman used to say so, so I don't want to repeat it, but the fact is that the citizens of this country today and tomorrow, and tomorrow, according to the established budget that we're getting together like this, will pay and, I doubt again, I hope I'm not right tens of thousands of people, and let's call their rights and privileges. And it's about the fakes, it's about the cheaters. At least I hope the government didn't take part in this knowingly that it allowed them to be cheaters and liars. And as for trying to get the government in every way, for several years now, it's been finding different excuses not to come out of the defense register, it's got to grieve us because I've read in dozens of articles that I have cut. I saw "Open" before some other show. I'm sorry that Mrs. Kosor isn't here, when I have to mention her right now, she's primarily, and her associates, she often said we can't publish that register of gentlemen, the citizens of this country because it's in the way of the law. I ask the question, very precisely and clearly, if there is such pressure from the opposition, if there are so many pressures and demands from various associations, because associations are not in this unique civil society, that the register is published, so why is the Government headed by Mrs. Kosor, who runs the portfolio, not preparing legislative proposals that allow the removal of obstacles in laws, and that registers can be published, register? Because as I read it, in Article 37. The constitution has no obstacle to the government's call to the constitution that it is an obstacle that the defence registry could not be published. In the end, there are two things in this country, two lists, a list of defenders and a list of voters, which we cannot solve in a way that we can be honest and honest. I won't say transparent, because I don't like that word. There is neither honesty nor honesty in this work that the state does. We still haven't gotten to one I'd say logically clear and clean list of voters. Please, I haven't forgotten, but I will remind you in 2003 there were 4 thousand voters more than in 2000 when there were parliamentary elections. In 2007, by the way, he was also late for the 2007 voter list, unable to reach the State Election Commission, with 140 and several thousand more than in 2003. Where did you get all these voters? Where did they come from? So, I'm done. Until we solve these two lists in this country, there will be no happiness and there will be not enough democracy to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20526	Thank you very much. Correction of the quote, MP Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20527	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the short one I'm going to fix up my colleague, Spreme, where he claims the government doesn't want to announce something, that he's hiding something. From the very vote of the Defence Committee and for veterans and two SDP members, they were abstentions, not for the publication of the register. ... On the Veterans Committee, just to remind you, your members aren't all for this either. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The government doesn't hide, but it clearly defines what the majority of the defense population is for.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20528	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20529	You're telling a colleague that you don't believe that the government was involved in the fact that someone that doesn't belong to that place would register as a defense attorney and then inherit all those rights that belong to him. But whoever hides and hides, who will not be revealed, then he is a participant of such a matter that will eventually be made clear, and eventually he will come out of sight, for this is what causes the right defenders. When we're called here, we want to find out, and then we get set up against a defense attorney. It showed up. Well, we're not against ourselves. If we count ourselves, we'll count ourselves on that basis, and you'll see how many defenders there are. Therefore, the real job here is to us and to talk about this suffering population not only reduces that part of the cake that is intended for them, but that is exactly what bothers them. Well, there's no worse than seeing someone, they know in a neighborhood that has maybe more rights than he has, and they've never seen the front. So who's acting really crazy? It took us five years to admit that the houses that we now have to pay for instead of building our own. We should've admitted that for five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20530	Answer. Okay. Then let's move on. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll remind you, I come from Rijeka. The river was a city that responded to a mobilization call in the Homeland War. I also haven't met any of the river defenders who opposed the publication of this register. Why? Well, like most other defenders in Croatia, the Rijekas went to the Homeland War for only one reason, which is to defend their country against aggression. Not because of the privilege, not because of the privileges, and the persistent refusal to publish the register is the punishment of the right defenders, the punishment of the right defenders and the protection of a small group of people who illegally, unfoundedly acquired the status of defenders, and all the while, in fact, represent the mockery of others who honorably defended their country and were participants in the Homeland War. At the same time, there are people who are participants in the Homeland War, and they're not even in the defense register, which is another proof that there's a lot of those who are in the register without seeing the war. I said that the last time the secretary of state was here and warned that I knew a lot of Rijeka, and I am among them a participant of the Homeland War 133nd Brigade, the Lika War, am not in the register. Why? I wouldn't be going to the lab right now. Therefore, I support the proposal of the HNS Club, it will not go as usual any proposal from the opposition in this term while you are the ruling coalition, it will not go as well as good and quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20532	Thank you very much. A distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20533	My colleague, all of what you said, and when the government kept refusing, it asked for some arguments as to why it rejected such proposals, and on several occasions there were so many of them, we also heard it again, that there was a government that couldn't do it because it was in the way of the law. So then there was when the law changed, and we used it, and it was an amendment to the SDP club even though the law did not interfere, but we made up an amendment that would say that the defence register was clear. The government refused that without any explanation, there was no explanation. It was also later on a proposal to amend the law. So you see when something doesn't make sense, then how time goes on just one bit of illogicalness goes on in another illogicality. I think the speed circuit should be interrupted as part of this very delicate situation for Croatia. It would have echoed very well first of all in the defense population itself. I'd give her one extra strength, faith in justice and truth, and that's what bothers them the most. More than maybe still unfulfilled rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20534	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20535	Well, colleagues, Ingrid, the HNS proposal has two points, two cartoons, and Mr. Secretary of State had to read four pages of some kind of explanation. It all says how many empty explanations it will take to explain something that makes sense. And you said well if that list of fakes were to move away, that all defenders who would surely need help under crisis conditions would get that help and get to a much greater extent than they're going to get right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20536	Thank you very much. The next debate is distinguished representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20537	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. I am really happy to have this proposal for the rights of true defenders. I would prefer that the concern was expressed from 2000 to 2003 and we know what happened then when it came to defenders and their rights. And another thing I ask is why there was no single register of Croatian defenders from 2000 to 2003, and that was also a legal obligation. And then Mrs Pusic was a legal obligation that the coalition government did not meet. I am against, of course, publication and I support the government's conclusion for the following reasons. First, the publication of personal data is contrary to existing legal regulations. And this is unequivocally determined by the opinion of the Personal Data Protection Agency. Secondly, Djakic pointed out in correcting the incorrect allegations at the meeting of the War Veterans Committee, representatives of defence associations were present. So, the people who represent the defenders. They were all against the publication of a single register and data from a single register. That's exactly how you read the record, ma'am. Thirdly, by publishing the general data from the register, there would be no objective, because nothing is visible from them. Such as when someone entered the Croatian army, when they came out, the length of participation, disability, possible or similar. So nothing is visible from this data, and without a home number, often a person could not be identified. Because you have God with the same name and name of countless people in Croatia. Fourthly, experiences from the near past concerning the revision of the status of Croatian defenders persuaded that only a mountain of dust had been raised, that unrest had been brought into the defence population, that defenders had become a strike point in the media in a negative sense, that these audits had resulted in thousands and thousands of lawsuits against the state. And most importantly, almost all these lawsuits have been lost by the state and in the last term there are 40 million kunas, if I remember correctly, paid to the defenders on the basis of these lawsuits. The same would happen after the publication of this unique register and the possible revision, which is obviously the goal of making a new audit and a new hack towards the defenders. So it's not about any concern for Croatian defenders, it's about day-to-day political interests. And what's particularly important and important. All data from the Croatian defenders' register dates back to the '90s. Well, it doesn't make any sense to accuse this government or the past to fabricate the number of defenders. In the past five years, a very small number of defenders have gained the status of defender through administrative proceedings. That's meaningless compared to the whole number, to the number of 500 grand. Because the register was made on a database that existed in the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, united, purified, and thus essentially came into the only possible way to access the register. And in the end, find me an army that after the war published a list of those who participated in the war? ... Where? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You think he's going to publish information from Iran or Iraq or Afghanistan? It will be safe. ... Well, some claimed we fought. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Some claimed we fought. And personally now I've been speaking as a Croatian defender since the first day of volunteer and disabled Homeland War. I don't want the information on my participation to be published anywhere. That's my... Is that what I said, but I don't want the data from the register that says much more than what I said to Mrs. Pusic, much more they say. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't want anyone to have any touch and insight into them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20538	Thank you. First of all, we have a correction of the alleged esteemed fellow representative Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20539	I am correcting only one of several allegations concerning the status of Croatian defenders. In 2000, I was a member of the commission, the president, with a wave of reluctance, and I'm only going to say one. A reader at a police station in Makarska sought status because she fell over a broom at a police station at the time the planes bombed St. George. Therefore, it is incorrect that it was done in the '90s. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20540	Thank you. We have three applications for replication. First of all, dear colleague Boris Sprem. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20541	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Ivić said there was no one published a list of defenders, but he was published in Croatia in an indirect manner. Almost every brigade published a monograph and there was a list of defenders there. Here, one of the answers. So all these monographs need to be collected and then we'll get to the list. Looks like that's how we're gonna have to go when you don't want to publish it. Secondly, you said that she was going to work this time, and that this question was now being raised to make a play for the defenders and now it's peace, quiet, etc. Yeah, but you know what. But it's known among people who were defense attorneys, who wasn't a defense attorney. And this is also a hack for taxpayers who pay for someone who may not have been a defense attorney. That's what we want to clear up. It's a heist on taxpayers. And to cleanse themselves of what is more important between defenders who are falsified and those who are not those who are not, who were true defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20542	Thank you. Next is the replica of the first respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20543	Mr. Vice President. Well, here, I'd like to rephrase my colleague, Ivić. He forgot to remind his esteemed colleagues and colleagues that the same moments occurred during the coalition government when he insisted and insisted that a list of all people with disabilities be published in the Homeland War. And in the end, you didn't post it on the Internet, but only in the ministry and there could the interested come and see them at the Ministry on the screen who's a disabled Homeland War. You've downloaded several thousand people you've heard 40 million kunas have been paid in damages. You again want to make public good on defenders like you did on disabled people. You did it on widows and on parents of some. You made the Homeland War to recruit criminals from it. The names of all species you have made of the one that is the worst Mrs. Pusic out of your mouth, which is that we are the aggressors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are horrors that the real Croatian defender is ashamed that such representatives or MPs in the Croatian Parliament can thus characterise the Croatian honorable army that has always been on the line of defense. ... Yeah, well, when it was supposed to be HDZ, when it wasn't necessary, it wasn't HDZ's. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If necessary, we are HDZ and HDZ armies and we are not, if necessary. If necessary, SDPs and HNSs like you would be taking care of Croatian defenders. Don't, Mr. Ivić, I don't think there's really any need to take care of Croatian honorable soldiers and police officers except for those who took the lead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20544	Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20545	Well, it is true that what Djakic said was not published even then during your government's list of people with disabilities in the Homeland War and that they were reluctant. And that in the end, the government decided not to publish the list. But if we are already talking about this topic and the concern that this number will be a blow in any way to the budget of the Republic of Croatia, it is worth knowing, dear gentlemen, that it is common whether defenders without the status of disabled persons or those who do not belong to this category and the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders in a material sense are doing very little or almost nothing, except for shares in the fund and the possibility of using self-employment funds almost nothing is achieved in a material sense and law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20546	Thank you very much, colleague Ivić. And a third replica of the distinguished counterpart, Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20547	Dear Ivić, it is a great honor and glory for you to defend your country of Croatia and for me, and it can also be given honor for life. I'm really doing this to you right now, and I'm telling you the most seriously. But we here will no longer be silent from that side that thinks it has a patent over defense and defence care. Tell me please here, clearly and loudly and to the Croatian public, where you have patented your right to do so, where you deposited that power of attorney to all defenders. Not with Sheparovic's colleagues. ... And at Rifkin's. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's safer there and more lucrative, I guess. And now you see, when you say that we're taking false care here when we're talking about it, we'd be really naughty to mention the Split Riviera, to mention the generals that you've neatly cleaned up around The Hague and now you keep quiet about it and you still have the nerve to talk to us here about these things and to silence us. ... We're the hickeys. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We don't raise a hand to the defenders, we raise a hectare and we raise it to those, to false defenders who are not defenders, and why fellow Ivić doesn't have enough resources to exercise his rights. That's what we need to talk about. But let's be clear. You obviously need those voices of those who are not defenders because obviously you can't get them from the defenders anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20548	The reply to the replica, dear colleague Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20549	We don't have any, nor do we want any. ... We do not have any nor do we wish to have the right to be defenders of Croatian defenders. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They don't need defenders, and they know best how to evaluate and evaluate the defenders themselves. You have had the opportunity to take care of Croatian defenders for four years and remember numerous protests by Croatian defenders, remember the law that gave them Croatian defenders' rights, remember the revision of disability and the rest, and I ask you how it all ended? And look, and look at what has been done for Croatian defenders over the past four years from a new law that better regulates the status of Croatian defenders and their rights and families of Croatian defenders, to the life of the idea of the Croatian Defence Fund from which the defenders benefit greatly from what is the strongest fund in the state and would be given here for hours and hours to discuss what the former government and this government are doing for Croatian defenders. And that's the difference between you and us, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20550	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of distinguished counterpart Miljenko Doric. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20551	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good evening. First of all, I'd like to speak to my colleagues from HDZ. I find you extremely brave, extremely brave. I find you extremely brave. One day, the register will be published. It'll be published eventually. I have nothing to add to what my predecessors said, colleagues Pusic, colleagues Ostojić, Beus and others. I have nothing to say. Then you'll ask and then what did you say? You know, colleagues, I only answered for one. One day when the register is published, then the truth will be learned. And I wouldn't be a part of it, I wouldn't be at all, namely I wouldn't want to be connected in any way to those who walked away here today or didn't come here today or defend what's unwarranted today. Namely, they did not want to correct an apparent injustice to eliminate those who do not belong to the list from the most honorable lists. You know there are. Don't tell me you don't know. You know there are. Of course, in 5, 10 or 15 years when the register is published it will be harder to trace the wicked. It will be harder to trace those who have allowed them to enter those lists but there will be enough evidence to see the injustices we are doing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20552	Thank you very much. For the replica, the esteemed colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20553	Well, I just want to say on the trail of what Mr. Doric was saying. We got before this session of this book, a book worth reading. It's worth reading so she doesn't forget. It's our anniversary. Vukovar, a city that defended Croatia. I read the names of the dead, but I read the names of the living. I don't believe that any of these living defenders and those who took part in a show that didn't really give a picture of the Vukovar defense on Thursdays, don't hold me by... The broadcasts because I didn't concentrate on the day or on time but on the content and were there living people, images and opportunities of those defenders who defended Vukovar and defended and defended Croatia and were not ashamed and did not hide their name or name. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not even your looks. At the border of a neighbouring country where there are still many who would be happy to recalculate with them. In a whole series of books and editions there are people who aren't ashamed and who don't fight that there's no publication. But it's hard to say without arguments that someone isn't a defense attorney. I'll tell you there are them. There are those who worked in the service that were uncomfortable when the defense ministry IDs arrived, we said we were defenders because they read, watched, saw, met people who were Zagorci, the Varazdinians, that I'm not saying now that I wouldn't be putting any region in the first place or the last place that were participants in the Vukovar defense and had the good news that either through the camp or through the breach they were alive. And so I said that's where the Veterans Committee was mentioned. I can tell now. I will no longer participate in this committee. It made me very sad. I've been going through battlefields since Osijek. I could say almost to Dubrovnik. He met with the defenders on the front line. I met completely other people and different ways of talking and exchanging opinions from what is unfortunately happening on our committee. And from the people who are all part of the Homeland War. Which should be, first of all, the honor of the exceptions that I'm not now, I'm not doing the selection again. Who should first care for the defenders rather than descend below the level of the Croatian Parliament, especially below the level of honor and reputation of Croatian defenders. Unfortunately, I've been saddened many times and called upon by my colleagues. Let's let go of who's what, who's how? It was, it didn't happen again and let's correct or correct the mistakes because there will be fewer and fewer regrets for those who will experience a correction of the error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20554	Thank you, colleague Hanzek. We've exhausted the charges for the hearing. Does the motionary want to speak to you? Here you go. Dear colleague Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20555	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it is not on anyone, on any party, on any individual or person to hide behind big words, institutions such as the country of Croatia. You've been conducting your policy. Some others have implemented their policies. We've been conducting our policies. And you're responsible. Croatia is not responsible. You are responsible for the policy you led as HDZ. We are responsible for the policy that we have led as an integral part of the coalition, although of course almost 19 years old there are 4 coalitions and 15 of yours, so responsibility is something different about the authorities. But that doesn't mean anything. Doesn't mean that there's also a coalition government that's done a lot of things in those four years that can't be compared to any other 4 years as far as building a country is concerned that there's a lot of things that it's supposed to do and it's not. That's absolutely true. I'll be the first to say it, and I was the first to be who during the coalition government thought some things should be done, but people thought they didn't. Some others thought there was something else to be done, and I thought not. In some things we were right, in some things we were wrong. It's an integral part of the government's behaviour and I think it would be absolutely ridiculous to claim to anyone who spent four years in power that everything he did was good and that he did everything he needed to do. I'm sure it's not like that. That's what common sense says it can't be like that. It would be the government of geniuses, and we have to be humble, self-critical to admit that none of us are. The publication of this register is not a subject, and here I think we all went a little wrong as far as the debate is concerned, it's not a matter of hiding or a pathetic debate about who's more for the defenders, less for the defenders. It's a job to build Croatian institutions. It's not a question of emotion, it's not a question of catching these or those populations wanting to vote, it's not going to vote. That's not the question. And while it is treated like such a question so far we have this problem that something that is absolutely healthy is perfectly understandable, which is that the publication of the defence registry brings peace and a clear situation, and the mystification and concealment is causing unrest and an unclear situation. The announcement makes it clear to everyone who they are and what they are. Hiding and mystification raises suspicions that there are many who do not belong there. It's quite clear about that. You don't need a big methodology. That's clearly common sense. As my colleague Doric said, of course, that the register will be published sooner or later, but many of the things that we have presented here in this House have spoken publicly and then caused the resistances have happened later have been accepted and realised and in some ways this part which means that no caressing or emotional turns out on one side, rather than ending Croatian institutions. That job's gonna have to be done. Our only opinion was in HNS that it would be useful and good to do this job now. And as my colleague Ivić from HDZ here said here I am the Croatian defender, and of course everyone can download his data from the Croatian Parliament's website believe that most Croatian defenders would probably like to just say the same thing. I'm a Croatian defender and I say that in public, and that means publishing this register. That is why we have proposed that this be done now and that somehow institutionally this area be regulated because it is an integral part of the institutional infrastructure of the Croatian state. Believe me, that's for sure. If not now because it does not receive support in this House in a later year, it may not be bad to note that there have been people who have been thinking in a rational way about these topics a little sooner than it was realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20556	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We end today’s work, that is, tonight’s work. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law. As far as I'm concerned, if you're willing to return Minister Bishop easily, we can proceed. He waits impatiently.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-20-0.u20557	Thirteenth, Proposal for a conclusion on the Regulation on the single register of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS. I am giving the vote the conclusion in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is read, the proposal for a conclusion on the Regulation on the single register of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War is not accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was adopted by a majority of 69 votes for 2 abstentions and 32 against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning! We're going back to work. We move to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 188 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the report at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr Bozo Bishop, Minister of Culture. Here you go.
