ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20692	Thank you. Mr. President of the Parliament, honourable representatives, ladies and gentlemen. You have a report in front of you on the work of the National Higher Education Council in 2007. I'd say it's a report written extensively where the entire work in the past and in 2007, and in the material, it's practically everything. Just a few notes to say I'd facilitate a review of this report. The National Council, following all the documents our country, the state signed, and I'm saying that, primarily, the bolognaisation of the entire system continued its process in 2007. In 2005 and 2006, I would say a hot year as far as the work of the National Council is concerned. There was she first bolognaisation of the entire system, thinking primarily of pre-graduate studies and her own graduate studies. In 2007, the National Council on the process continued to study in postgraduate studies, according to specialist postgraduate studies and doctoral postgraduate studies. And there's the biggest accent in this report. Of course, during 2007, there were also a number of other tasks stemming from the law that the National Council was dealing with. What you may be particularly interested in is the process of evaluating higher education institutions, and that is one process that is in line with all international I would say to the parameters of the National Council for the sake of it. So far, nine institutions have been evaluated, and in the next 2009 we hope that the entire rest of all institutions from the National Higher Education Council will be completed. Perhaps you'll find this report I'd say by a technical report. What is in one part of it, but you must know that every document of the National Council is practically a strategic document and that what I would say in cooperation with over 500 reviewers is doing its job, clearly in cooperation with the Agency for Higher Education and Science, and as our direct executive, we rely on the Ministry of Education and Sport of the Republic of Croatia. Here, I wouldn't be too long. What will be far more interesting and it will be at the Assembly session next time. It will be a projection of the network in the area of higher education made by the National Council but in the procedure it is still, so it will only come later as a special item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20693	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. Mr Miljenko Doric, on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20694	Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in the absence of Professor Selem, I was asked here to state the position of our committee which considered this report as a parent working body, and let me take these few sentences. In fact, we have found that the report is particularly problematic by the two areas of action of the National Council in 2007. First, the process and other issues of evaluation of doctoral and professional postgraduate studies. And secondly, work on a large number of applications received for the establishment of new higher schools and the launch of new undergraduate, graduate and professional study programmes in the last year. In the context of the first mentioned task, the National Council addressed the principle issues and individual requirements for giving a positive opinion on the launch of postgraduate doctoral studies. In doing so, it was subject to an assessment of a number of conditions to be met by the applicant and, in particular, different requirements for the initiation of doctoral studies in view of the classification of scientific fields or directions as well as the capacity issues of individual institutions which wish to launch a doctoral study in the first instance when it comes to mentors. The tasks of the National Council in the same respect should be facilitated and objectiveised by the document, the criteria for the evaluation of higher universities in the form of universities. On the occasion of the second question, the National Council report finds that last year it continued to be, namely that a large number of requests were still received for the establishment of new higher schools and the launch of new study programmes of different levels and profiles. In addition, in the discussion of our committee, it was indicated that the National Council of Budgetary Funds was granted insufficient amounts of financial resources. For example, review jobs are now very badly feared, and it is also necessary to enable the Agency for Science and Higher Education to employ and train the necessary professionals in view of the daily challenges and global changes in the higher education system. The report is also called for to work on the projection of a network of public higher universities in the Republic of Croatia as it is a document produced during the reporting period and will have far-reaching consequences for the development of that part of higher education capacities that enter the public higher education system and are financed from budget funds. After the debate was held, the Committee reached the conclusion of a majority of 8 for and 2 abstentions: "It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in the last year." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20695	Thank you. A representative of the government sent an opinion... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Attorney Gordan Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20696	My colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is one of those I would say happier countries to which a parliamentary body that monitors this strategic activity of higher education. This is a strategic body, which monitors strategic activity and is therefore particularly high in expectations from that body. This is an annual report that we understand as an orderly display but more or less routinely carried out techniques consisting of giving information about what has been done, but almost nowhere can we explain why it has been done without any deepening and analysis which of the strategic body would have been expected. The situation on the ground is far from ideal and bright and therefore such an analysis would help everyone. In other words, we are afraid that this strategic body is functioning but is not fully clear to us from this annual report strategically reaching and strategic ambition of that body. I will only list a few examples of strategic failures or failures that occurred last year, so during the period for which the report was submitted. In 2005, Croatia introduced a Bologna process, in fact, it is a deep structural change in higher education in Croatia, which should have been an opportunity for much improvement, a "great improvement" in quotes, but it was done more or less without a vision at the last minute in a hurry and we are afraid that there has been a whole series of failures and illogicalities. We therefore expected the National Council for Higher Education to start with analytical efforts each year to point to these failures, but also to propose improvements. That's not what happened this year either. Summer, I remind you, finished the first generation of first-generation students in the Bologna process and it was a fantastic opportunity to make an analysis of what we have achieved, how we have conducted the Bologna process and what should be done further because it is a process to be better and better at it. In the Parliament we have been talking about this for four months, we in the SDP have been talking about it since the spring. But neither the Council, the National Council for Higher Education, nor the authorities of the executive authority felt the need to produce one great evaluation and to establish what was actually happening with the Bologna process. So this strategic task has not been done and it seems to us that it should be done from actually, it should be an indicator of further steps, the whole thing is called a process to be in constant change. This major improvement of the higher education system should also include the reintegration of public institutes that were violently ripped out of university structures in 1993, 20 of them. Croatia, a country with 4.5 million inhabitants has 30 public institutes and it is actually a kind of paradox, which is difficult and financially to endure, especially at a time when universities cry out for both personnel and space and equipment. So, we expected to intensify that reintegration, in five years, nothing really happened, and we expect the National Council of Higher Education to be able to do the job together with the National Science Council. Thirdly, doctoral studies are, forgive the number of doctors in the Croatian population is something that Croatia is the most moneyier compared to other countries. And therefore, we also considered 2002 and 2003, including you in some of your declarations, so you are the ruling coalition that doctoral studies are a priority in higher education. Nothing special about the promotion and development of doctoral studies has been done. Fourthly, in 2001 it was founded, and in 2003 it actually started to work to become fully operational in 2004 the Science and Higher Education Foundation. Therefore, it was also one institution that should have been of state importance on the one hand, because it had to finance those scientific research and high education activities that were significantly different, innovative for the areas in which it was intended to operate. And secondly, it was actually supposed to be strategic in that it had to take over similar to what's going on in the United States of America in National... foundation or in Germany in Deute.... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should have taken over the funding of scientific research projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only has none of this happened, but there are no references to this in any of these national councils' reports and we believe that the National Council for Higher Education should also refer to the Foundation and perhaps be more committed to the regular work of the Foundation. This is a team that, colleagues and colleagues, is a foundation on the verge of its financial operation, since three years in a row, the foundation from the state budget did not receive funds. And now, some funds are also foreseen this year, which have been annulled by internal redistribution. Sixth. We all attach special importance and actually swear to the strategic task of almost synergic efforts to increase the number of highly educated because the level of education depends on the level of improvement or well-being. On the other hand, Croatia is a very uneducated country. One document published by the National Council for Higher Education mentions that the academic year 2007/2008. enrolled more or less 10% less students in the first year than a year before. The government corrected the data with its document, but the correction turns out that the number of students in the last year was more or less equal, or approximately equal to the number of students in the previous year. It is a colleague and colleague information that rings the alarm, which requires an alarm because we have more or less projected in all documents that the system of higher education and science grows with at least 10% a year and when the National High Education Council discovers such a failure then we expected it to ring at the alert, to ask for special measures, to initiate the stimulation of enrolment in higher education but there was nothing at the level of the National Council or at the level of the executive authority. And finally, the National Council has a very specific legal obligation. It is mandatory to monitor the implementation of the legal obligation of functional integration of the university. From year to year, the legal obligation is not fulfilled or the legal obligation is moved to the next year. It's about... So on the overall budget of the university, which then the university can have and one part of the funds redistribute to those activities which it considers to be priority or strategically significant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even at that functional integration of the University, the National Council for Higher Education has not insisted, and together with the National Council for Science, the National Council for Higher Education should consider the structure of the budget for science and higher education and make appropriate proposals together with its working body, namely with its financial advice or advice on finance, and given that this has not happened for the past budget, then we would certainly expect the National Council to do so in a warm manner for this budget, especially if it is financially tight. Similarly, the National Council for Science, together with the National Council for Higher Education, is obliged to propose members of the Committee on Ethics. You know how difficult we've had to deal with that committee, or rather, we still have, and neither have the National Higher Education Council, so we're hoping they'll do it now because there's a competition in progress for those members. I was of the opinion, and I remain of the opinion that the report of the National Council would therefore look quite different to that of the strategic document that has been developed and this is a projection of the development of the higher education network in Croatia, which we hope to talk about separately, but it should actually be that strategic document that shows the strategic concern of the National Council for Higher Education and, on the other hand, from the perspective of this document, if they were discussed together with this report, the whole series of elements in the report looked different. And these critical remarks by colleagues and colleagues have been made and carried out not to tell the executive authorities that he knows nothing, that he does nothing, that he does nothing, that he does nothing, that he does nothing, that he does not carry out his tasks, but we simply step in trying to fix the system, that he is better, that he is more efficient, that he is more effective, that he is more effective and that he insists on certain activities that make strategic steps. In this regard, colleagues and colleagues will continue to do so with their critical remarks because they can learn the most from them, but precisely because of these failures that I have listed regardless of the insistence of the National Council for Higher Education and regardless of the almost undivided respect for the president of that body, we will not be able to support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20697	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20698	Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the National Council, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will be very brief because Mr. Flego has cited a series of very concrete objections to what the National Council is doing and in what direction our higher education is going at all. If you have passed this report, even if only these conclusions, you have seen that the National Council has recommended that the Minister issue a number of permits. If you compare the ratio of studies of social, humanistic, medical and technical sciences a little bit, then you will see which way most of these licenses go. What the citizens are asking me, and you know for a fact that Minister Primorac has been reporting to us regularly over the past few years about significant shifts, about the growing number of people who have higher and higher education which is good, that is our goal and that percentage of people with higher and higher education is such that it seems to me at a recent meeting in Westin he said that 15 or 16% of our citizens now have higher and higher education. But what we can't and can't succeed, at least, is to link the following: education or the increase in the quality of education and the greater number of highly educated people should result in what? Increased competitiveness, increased production, increased exports, increased standards. Not counting on the last six months of the global crisis in which, ultimately, this report refers to last year, colleagues and colleagues are very interesting that we have one constant growth in the number of highly educated people. At the same time, we have a steady increase in imports, a steady growth in external debt. So we're wondering why this type of education? Do we educate people to produce more and better or for something else? What are the connections, the real connections of the ones we're putting in? Do we enroll people on the basis of very precise surveys with the economy? Do we write them down based on the state's demands that in 5, 10 and 15 years it will take so many teachers, so many lawyers, so many cops should probably be some kind of plan to lean on then that education. This is how it turns out that the basic objectives of education are not achieved because there is no impact in the economic segment. We kept calling for a Finnish model, in their way of education, on the backs of their high school network, on their economy. We don't have a shipbuilding engineer, we don't have an engineer of various technical branches, we don't have enough doctors, and look at the passes going towards a huge number of new studies in the field of social, humanistic and other sciences. I am not against these sciences, but I believe that the state should primarily educate those personnel who need the state and its economy, that the country's development strategy must also be based directly on the Higher Education Strategy, including the Science Strategy. I would therefore very much like for us to have representatives of the National Council for Higher Education in their final address to tell us, to give us some answers as planned so far and plans from now on to create both a network of higher education institutions and registration policies and everything else. Because the Lisbon Strategy and we as tomorrow are members of the European Union have one basic goal, and it is to increase the efficiency of the European economy, including our economy. Bologna is just one of the elements with which it is intended and wants to achieve that goal. Here, that's something we really need to worry about. Because at the same time I repeat with the growth of the number of highly educated people growing our external trade imbalance, we had one minus 6 billion euros 5 years ago, so it increased to 7, then to 8, then to 9 billion. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20699	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20700	Dear Mr. President, the honored representatives of the Council and the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report from the National Higher Education Council for 2007. At first, we will say that we will support this report because it is comprehensively, correctly done, and we can freely say that there is also a dimension of critical reference to everything that has been made so far, which is certainly also a significant positive step. This report comes in a period when our higher education is in a major transition. What has been done over the past 10 years cannot be compared to all previous periods. Croatia has been determined to fix the quantity, and now it is also the focus on the quality of higher education. This report clearly points out that the Council's task is to support and work on the Bologna scheme, which means that it makes decisions, to review and monitor institutions located at three levels of education, undergraduate studies, and then to graduate university programmes and the highest level after graduation, which means doctoral or post-graduate specialist studies. What can be pointed out in the report in this short time is what the Council has done at the review of the new programmes. It's also the most important thing right now. The Council's most important tasks with its reviews, with its critical approach proposed on these programmes, have a direct impact on the quality of these new programmes. The fact that by 2005 more than 800 licenses were issued is a fact of thought. This is about the quantity of a really big step and it is a prerequisite for the educational scheme of Croatian citizenship to rise to a higher level. However, when we see how many new requirements and how many new proposals for new programmes this Council has received, then we have to wonder if we have come to a situation where the quantity needs to be translated into quality. In 2006, there were 65 new proposals for undergraduate, graduate and professional studies and in the same year as 16 new applications for new higher schools. In 2007, it increased by another 30%, so in 2007, there was 91 new proposals for the level of undergraduate, graduate and professional studies and as many as 22 new proposals for higher schools. This is, therefore, an increase of 1/3 per year and we must now, of course, ask ourselves whether it is effective, whether it is necessary, to what extent the quality is represented in these proposals, and whether the National Council can really competently propose to the Minister the issue of permits. So let's simplify the question. Is it a verse or a need? Is it quality or improvisation? Whether such a large number of new requirements are in line with the requirements, which are inevitable with European standards. Because production of such high personnel must absolutely be at the level of the quality of European standards. Otherwise, we will not win the battle with Europe in competition at expert level. And as the predecessors have said, this battle and this competition will not be able to move quality to the economy or to all other areas that depend exactly on such universities. So I would like to read the 2006 sentence from the Report. The report says: “In particular, the major advances of new high - school proposals or new student programs proposed by the promoters are mostly suggested by their own interests. There is the greatest danger, and without clear insight into the real needs of a region to launch a certain study profile threatens the danger of uncontrollable growth of university networks or programmes which would negatively affect the quality of the entire system. This should be added to the quote that critical consideration of already existing networks, so those identified by the study programmes can see their overlap and parallelism." Done quote. I think this is the central line of the entire report followed by a number of data and the National Council properly directed its lens through which it observes and studies the entire system. So let's translate it into simple language. What's the problem? Is it more important to set up a school or university than the interests of a region or state? Whether it is more important to collect part of the state budget and local budgets intended for that institution or whether it is more important to wish to employ certain personnel than the general national interest. Can these universities and universities meet the human rights standards established in law be very serious and quality? In other words, is it possible that quality was achieved by an example of one of our fellow teachers who we saw in the paper the other day teaching a seven-time norm to seven or eight universities in about eight or nine cases? What about the quality of such teaching and is it the frame of Bologna? Of course that quality can't be, of course it's not within Bologna. The quality of the course is evident, not only in the arrival of the lecture and the departure of teachers, but in his contact with the student. I tell my younger colleagues that I'm assessing him, not only by the grade of the student they're making independently, but also by whether he came from a lecture or seminar or not. If he didn't come sweaty, it means he didn't leave a part of himself in the education program, and then there's nothing out of quality. Is it good that there's a special category of us traveling teachers flying from class to class? I don't call them traveling, I call them wandering. I don't think that's good, and that this report, which directly, indirectly, pointed out very high-qualityly to these emerging problems. Clearly, these problems have come to order now that the quantity has been achieved, which is once again positive because that we do not have a base and a network that is now based in Croatia on all levels of education, then of course we would not be able to discuss quality. That the council is on the right track is also seeing the review forms which in my opening part, I read a form for reviewing postgraduate doctoral studies and postgraduate specialist studies. It's in the introduction clear to every potential new proposal. They say they must meet three basic causes and three basic conditions. First, the study programme must be at the level of the latest scientific or artistic knowledge and based skills. It therefore calls for programmes that monitor the scientific level, as well as the level of knowledge of European countries' skills. Secondly, that programmes must be consistent with national priorities. I'd say national and local priorities. Both, of course, must be involved. Thirdly, that the programme must be comparable to the programmes in the European Union countries and this is the most important criterion. If we don't set the bar high enough now, then the question is whether in the nearer or further future we'll be able to make up for such failures. In my form, I would also read several requests or questions that are being asked to new authors of new programs. Is the programme study comparable to programmes in European Union countries? This is a key issue and we must give an answer to it in very critical reviews of these programmes. The question remains whether programme reviewers are objective enough? Aren't they interested in professional, scientific or even locally defined priorities compared to national priorities? So the harmonisation of these programs is the next step. One of the questions in this form, i.e. the review form, is there a proposed teaching code of appropriate competence? The teaching chamber is another big question in such a rapidly growing number of our universities. In particular, when recruited according to criteria that should be in line with at least the lower level of criteria in the European Union countries. Why do I say "lower" at least? Because of the time in which the entire transformation of higher education takes place. Are these criteria mutually consistent? So I'm going to compare, and I'm not going to name two high schools, in one you can get a science-school call with 50% less effort than in the other. One of the negative, although it sounds like a positive example I can say at my medical school to report a doctoral dissertation, and we heard just before it means having a proper number of doctors of science for the general development of society, so to report a doctoral dissertation candidate must have published one work in... with an impact greater than 1. That kind of work is already a doctoral work in small matters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can a young man publish this before the doctoral dissertation is reported and have not we raised the bar too high and will we have enough doctors in this area of science for future scientific and educational calling? The mentor of that doctorate must have in five years three jobs in... Which is fine, but the work has to be in the area from which the doctorate is applied, which is not good because I want doctoral thesis from areas that aren't worked out enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I just want young candidates to get into new areas. Why would he have to enter the area from which we've already published three highest-level work for five years? Why don't you get into a new area? These and such limits have a quality on one side because they promote a higher level of all criteria, but on the other hand they can become a brake for their own development, and I think that there is a competent national council because it has seen the problem and I believe that it will also focus on this equating conditions along with the National Science Council that it will also target such programmes in the direction of European criteria, but not excessively to be its own brakes. What do you say from this report on denied claims? Denied demands show that the council is doing quality work, that it has its criteria, that the system is established, that it needs to be corrected according to the proposals found in this report itself and that it is primarily necessary to keep an eye on human resources. According to Article 51 of the current Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, there are minimum scientific staff required to be in contract work. So these minima are 1/3 teaching staff for universities and high schools, or 30% for university. For years, one of these same problems has been withdrawn, and this is about the proposal, and you can't have a work contract because you're not a facility yet, but then it's shown with the signing of the intention that this and that teacher will participate in this institution. Who and when controlled that, after the draft institution and the approval of the program, the teacher really included her work contract? So, what I advocate is a complete revision of the regular control of all the permits so far issued and the control of working conditions in relation to existing good laws. About new high schools only two three sentences. In 2007, 22 new higher universities were proposed with 41 new programmes. Is it really necessary in the existing network and is it good enough to include it at the level we're talking about? But which way is out? The exit is definitely, and we can see it in this council report. First, the creation of networks, national networks of all universities and universities, the creation of a network that is very responsible and a very difficult task. This work must take into account above all quality, comparison with European standards, then national needs, then local needs and finally possible human resources, meeting all existing standards. In addition, if a regular review of all the cards issued is introduced, I believe that we can speed up the quantity by reaching with the quality of our higher education. Since I find traces of all this in the report, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we propose to accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20701	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20702	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the National Council for Higher Education with Associates, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. I fully support the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2007, as well as the document Projection of the Public Higher Schools Network in the Republic of Croatia, which the National High Education Council delivered to the Croatian Assembly for discussion and adoption and on which they gave their positive opinion to the National Council for Education, Science and Culture as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia. During 2007, the National Council for Higher Education held nine sessions where it continued to carry out the tasks prescribed by the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education under its jurisdiction. In late March 2007, there was also the appointment of seven new members of the National Council as a two-year term expired. I will commend in my debate and methodology for preparing a report which examines and clearly promotes the advantage of MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, all topics discussed by the Council at its meetings as well as the documents that it has brought. And although the annual report is ahead of us, it contains an exception to the state of achievement of the reform of higher education that the Republic of Croatia launched in 2005, by commitment to the development of a binary university and higher education system. It should not be forgotten that according to the last census of 2001, we had only 11.8 more and highly educated inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia. To the developed Europe that we are seeking, and we are on the best track to become the 28th member of the European Union, the best way to approach it is to compete with it with knowledge. The definition of Croatia's state of knowledge society meant the launch of comprehensive changes in the system ranging from pre-school education, primary and secondary education to science and higher education. In the field of higher education, significant shifts were achieved, the number of students was increased, new universities and higher schools were opened mainly at the university with expert studies aimed at creating professional staff, which in a shorter period than 3 years, will meet the needs of their counties and regions. A greater number of young people are allowed to study at home, and their families, therefore, make it easier for parents to study financially and not just to study their children financially. Thus, the issue of establishing a university and higher schools and providing preconditions for their successful work in certain counties and cities becomes an obvious status issue, and we see it in the report, and the professor also said something about it. Hebrang. No wonder, in the 2007 report on work, the National Council for Higher Education found that the number of requests for the establishment and opening and opening of new public higher schools did not decrease even though the 2006 report also warned. The basic document on which the Council worked during 2007 with the issuing of licences for new higher schools and the production of documents for the external evaluation of higher schools, which the National Council for Higher Education and adopted in early June of 2008, was the projection of networks and public higher universities in the Republic of Croatia. The document, which has 105 pages, gives an overview of the existing network of higher universities in the Republic of Croatia, sets quantitative and qualitative criteria for establishing new networks with criteria for the establishment of universities, universities and higher schools, provides a proposal for a projection of the new network as well as a financial framework that must monitor the formation of a new network. In the network of existing universities in Croatia, we have 7, 13 public universities, among which here I am already participating in the debate, especially dear university in Slavonski Brod founded in 2006 and 2 private universities and in the network of higher schools of 3 independent high schools and 22 private schools of which 14 are based in Zagreb. In the projection of the network of public universities there remains an existing 7 with an explanation that it is not possible to expand the network for the next 10 to 15 years until the existing universities are consolidated in terms of personnel, equipment and space, and I think we can agree with this proposal. The public university from the existing 13 is planned on 25, 27, because in Zagreb they operate 3 separately and because they need to be developed as a backbone of professional studies. The geographical location aims to ensure uniform coverage of Croatia's territory, taking into account the density of population, but also the need for demographic development. High schools in this projection in this document, said they should be served as a transitional solution until conditions for their turning into a university are met. And for dislocated studies, we have a lot of these today, we suggest that we abolish because they're irrational and unsupervised. Most of the existing ones, according to the High Council's advice, should be left to existing universities. For existing and networked new planned higher schools, there is a need to provide spatial, human and material conditions for their development. The assessment presented in this document is that for the construction, construction or adaptation of university and university facilities over the next 10 years, therefore in 2009-2019, it would require a 4 billion kuna investment, which annually means 400 million kuna. The reform of the higher education system is a long-term process, most often linked to the financial opportunities of both the states and the local community that has or wants to establish a higher school, but with the commitment that we have shown as a state, I have no doubt that we will not be able to deal with the difficulties that arise in this process. And something that the Government has stated in its opinion, and it is about financial resources that are not contained in this report, and insufficient financial resources are also mentioned. Both for the work of the Higher Education Council and for general higher education, so to speak, in the state budget. I agree with the p0rimation and the position expressed in the Government's opinion, and it concerns the fact that there are no financial indicators given in that report on the insurance and spent funds from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007, which is proposed to show, explain their purpose and indicate what is realised during this period. And even though this applies only to future reports of the National Council for Higher Education, I think it should be worth it, colleagues and colleagues, for all reports submitted at this House of Higher Education for discussion and adoption, because this is not an exception. To conclude, support and commend the work of the Higher Education Council in this report, which was submitted for 2007 as well as the projection of the High School Development Network in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20703	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20704	Thank you, Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I commend the report of the National Council for Higher Education and, of course, I will vote for it. What I would like to talk about is the accompanying projection of public higher education networks in the Republic of Croatia as some basis on which a strategic document will be built later, which is the Network of Public Higher Schools in the Republic of Croatia. I'm going to speak locally, namely, the network finally entered this year and the City Hall in Međimurje, so in Chakovec. It was founded by the government's decision. Three directions or three objects are formed. Since there were problems in the establishment and opinion of the council around the vicinity of Čakovec and Varazdin, there were many problems around the establishment itself, because it practically delayed the physical establishment for a year. And after all the peripetia they got, every university got computerism as a program, and the construction and engineering they got as a joint programme based on the agreement. And to that part, by the logic that was present, there was no particular problem. However, looking at the projection of the Public Higher Schools Network in the Republic of Croatia in the future, it shows that the network provides for as much as five Velečište programmes in Varazdin, and almost no programme in Veleučište in Čakovec. What does almost no program mean? Namely, out of the three identical programmes that were planned and which were in the agreement tied, computerism is predicted in the future only in Varazdin, engineering is predicted only in Varazdin and ultimately, then the building is expected to begin for another year and in Čakovec, but later only in Varazdin. So it's a question of regional development and action. I must remind you that your County of Međimurska is by the number of highly educated people in the last place, so that we require special measures and which by the efforts of the county, the government's efforts are achieved in a way that increases the number of high school departments, to obtain a military department, in order to get spaces for the university, dormitories, etc., etc. So the efforts have already been made, and the projection would say that there is no big perspective for this university. This is why it is practically predicting a biotechnical study which, I must admit, no one in the field can recognize what a useful model that could be applied in the future. But I am obliged to mention in this direct crackdown of five programmes in Varazdin, and none in Čakovec, practically that the data spoken are definitely possible to show and in a way that division and compromise can be achieved about it. First, around the building. I think it is undisputed for all in Croatia that the builders are coming, and also because of the vocational school present in Čakovec construction direction, GOC, it is certain that the builders are from Međimurje. Of course, there are them from Varazdin County, but in a far smaller volume. In order to support this, in metal production, so when we talk about engineering, then we can see that it is one of our strongest branches that far exceeds or cover imports by exporting, so not that it is covered but 30% exceeds total imports into that branch and exports from that branch. It is particularly important for Međimurje, showing that, for example, comparisons, the Varazdin County achieved 985 million revenues in the metal industry in 2007, while Međimurska achieved a billion and 172. He is employed in Međimurje 3120, in Varazdin he is 2789 etc., etc. So it would be logical for these three programmes in the final network of construction and engineering to be located in the university and envisaged in Čakovec, and for Varazdin a sufficient number of programmes is foreseen. So let's remind ourselves that the minimum you're looking for is the three programs that must be, so compromise is possible and neither the quality nor the territorial coverage collapses. Once again, the proposal is that the additional document also schedules programmes for universities in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20705	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20706	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the National Council, Government. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, now we've been listening to the discussion of a colleague who's talking about possible compromises. I think it's like this now one example of what I've been meaning to say, that since we formed the county it was the first goal, or the thing prestigious that the county has a fair, and then after that came which county doesn't have a festival that it's a weak county. So now that we look at, more or less all the county have all kinds of fairs, it doesn't matter how many people come, don't come, have festivals. Now, lately, this has been the current issue of high schools, high schools in the county. A county that doesn't have a high school or a university or something like that, it's like this minus, probably considered by the mayor who's there and headship etc. And that's why we see from this report from the National Council that there's been an enormous expansion of high schools, that it's the expansion of the university, and whether it's connected or not to the network, or that network will be passed once we've had those universities, the universities have. However, what stands is insufficient funding. The funds are not increasing, the funds are still present, etc. So that's one question. And the second question that I think is important, it's a matter of expertise, that is, Professor Hebrang's question has spoken to these traveling professors, flying professors as we please. So I'd like to talk about these two things. I mean this transition to the 2005 Bologna Process, 800 pass for studies, which is what we thought we were going to do so so we're going to do it according to Bologna. However, appetites are normal to grow. In 2006, new pre-graduate studies and 16 new higher schools. The warnings of the National Council are visible from this to whom I give, how not to give, and for what. In 2007, however, another 91 pre-accession studies and 22 new higher schools. The National Council has warned and warned of the justification and this fact of acceptance of all these programmes and universities. The question is asking myself, and I don't know the licenses are coming. The National Council doesn't give, does it? But higher schools are increasingly opening up and I think it's good if they're related to the economy of the region. Those are commendable attempts. I think such a university has and their justification exists. especially if there are certain personnel who will do so and who will later graduate students who will have a place to work in the area. Let's say from the area where I come from, it's a university, I'm not from Požega, I'm from Osijek, but in Slavonia there's a university in Požega, wine growing, fruit growing, vineyarding, I think there's justification and that's it. Now, however, it's always often started, and the appetites are growing, and it's a high school. Now we're going to open one, two or three more, I don't know how many studies to expand that we become something a little bigger, stronger, etc. Whether there is such a study in close proximity at a university center or it is further, or another thing that is worst that often stays and opens studies from which it is very difficult to get a job afterwards. But we also have examples, here it's also listed, that they didn't get some high-school green light. The National Council didn't give, but I don't know if they got a pass at the end of the ministry that opened it anyway, and that the studies that were requested had nothing to do with the economy of the end and that they probably didn't have anywhere to work as such. The second question is what I said about those traveling professors. We've read, there's been a speech by those who have a double-digit number of objects, and they also teach at universities that have to count not on the fingers of one, but even on two hands. It travels from land to sea or vice versa, surrenders quickly. With students, how much do you work with students? As the question of the Bologna Process is that who should have asked himself that I do not know a university professor or doctor has a number of students he is mentoring with, etc. We saw it, we were in the West, and we were in America, and I had a chance to see it at the University of Sacramento in California, but who didn't see it, he could see it on TV, on movies, a lot of how students and professors live in those campuses, not to say together and have great opportunities to work together and create really high-quality frames at the end of it. So here I think, in the end, of this very document, European standards and guidelines for quality assurance in higher education, I think that we should maximum and implement and create a network according to these guidelines. The network would then also give high-quality universities, and high-quality universities should also produce high-quality graduate students. What Professor Doric said was a question, which is why we are importing outside personnel today, and at the same time this kind of expansion, we are also not creating anything very quality or new in the economy to increase our exports and create brands that will be at European level and that we will be able to relate to and export. And today, I think with this kind of higher education and creation, we're not doing well. I think we should seriously consider opening up so many high schools and programs. Because I don't think it would be a good idea to create some of those famous "Smuzzlers" that we've all had a lot of objections about and that they've given a lot of bad in high school education. Let's not let that happen in high places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20707	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20708	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a brief review of this report. Statistical data in it undisputedly point to one important phenomenon, hopefully a lasting phenomenon, that Croats want to learn, that Croatia as a knowledge society is probably the commitment of many individuals. In any case, that question requires I would say perhaps a more comprehensive debate with many aspects. First of all, from the point of view of quality, then and with some others, whether knowledge is the most important interest, what is the relationship to diplomas in terms of knowledge, what is the guarantee that massity will ultimately produce the quality that only makes sense and only justifies the investment of the state-run resources, the funds from the state budget in higher education. That scale and that mass kind of surprise, they warn. As Professor Hebrang 800 passersby said, hundreds of new requirements and I would say nice sounds of the Međimurje University in Čakovec, High School of Information Management in Virovitica, Higher School of Croatian Zagorje in Krapina, High Business School of Minerva in Dugopolje, High School of Engineering in Zagreb, Higher School of Media, Multimedia and Communication Technologies, etc. What is the central issue of what is the quality of education provided to these new institutions, which is the teaching capacity, which are qualifications, which is the level of competence of traveling professors, how long they really have for serious research, for serious scientific work because quality teaching without it is not available, it is clear to all. A half year ago, the president of the Croatian Parliament sent me to say a few words on the days of the university. Among other things, I told the students who were present there a very simple message based on their personal experience and I believe it is important for all of us to enter the best studies, write down the best colleges, choose the hardest because it is the best investment in yourself and it is the best investment in society. I remember well when I came here 20 years ago as a guest researcher to a respected American University of Enarbour AeroSpace Department and when I saw with what energy, with which power, the belief of many young people there work. I thought when I left school about six or seven hours to work a lot. A few months later, when I left for dinner at 9:00 or 10:00, I saw that all those who had sat there before. It was so Saturday and Sunday and after half a year or a year as the project was approaching the end I saw in the morning that the intensity of the work at the university was the same as during the day. Therefore, it is a serious, difficult, challenging business whose standards not only define the best universities in the world, and we have to take care of that because they guarantee quality, they give the most knowledge for the money invested and provide the people who acquire it and the diplomas that these funds will be paid to them during their lives in the best possible way. And I didn't say, for no reason, at the beginning of that diploma, the massity that concerned all those who debated here, and the council only what was behind it, whether the greater interest might be formal for a diploma or what they wouldn't want to believe is so important but it's not more important than the diploma itself. Unfortunately, some phenomena that have only seen in this society a few months ago show that not only students know knowledge is not the most important but even those who need to convince and who need to encourage do not think so. And that is why all these debates that support mass should not be challenged. I should say to dynamicize the system, but the final results of this mass as soon as possible through serious solid filters of competent quality-determined teachers must guarantee quality. But it just doesn't depend on what happens at universities, it depends on the whole society, it depends on our media and their interest, and I still keep somewhere in my college drawer a magazine that published... where the front page said "The War on talent" was nice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The war on talent is something that is a constant of developed societies and developed economies and the most qualitative companies in the world. To what extent is this war for talent in Croatian society, especially in the economy, there is certainly something to think about and what should be discussed. What deserves special attention in all your reports is related to the highest level of education, to postgraduate studies, to postgraduate specialist studies, to postgraduate doctoral studies. Why? It seems that everything that happens and normal mass is present at those undergraduate levels, and for society, this level is the most important thing. Why? Because it determines the reach of a particular society not only in science but in the economy determines the competitiveness of that economy, determines the overall capacity of our society to really transform rapidly, quality and effectively into a knowledge society, determines our technical, technological and other capabilities, determines the speed of our economic growth, determines the balance of payments, and much is said here. That's why excellence is also an extremely important topic I'd say deserves a special consideration. Not only excellence but as I said work and concern for talent, it must be the interest of serious companies. How many such serious companies in Croatia we have is another question. Interdisciplinaryity of postgraduate studies is very important and I will say it myself since I conducted postgraduate studies at the University of Zagreb which consisted of students of physics, mathematics, FER and electrotechnics. It was an excellent experience not only for students, not only for professors but also for the University of Zagreb. Many challenging projects in these spheres are being offered, this society needs, and in any case that part of the innovation in the higher education of postgraduate studies is something we will probably hear more about in some of your next reports. The structure of education, it was also more of a word. Most of the students we have, I probably don't have to be right where it's easiest. How many students we have in physics, math, FER, engineering, shipbuilding. Today we talk about shipbuilding, we talk about engineers, this kind of education determines our economy's abilities, and that's why education structure should be thought about the same thing. And in the end, I would say maybe, one important thing that maybe we didn't mention, which is about higher education and I would say maybe foreign policy, for many major countries their universities represent the best ambassadors, their state policies, the United States, France and many others. And I would say why not, just these centres of excellence, if we have in the field of education can also be elements of Croatian foreign policy, attract people from different countries who will one day form not only bilateral relations between the Republic of Croatia and these countries but also much wider. And it's also an important component of high school education that, I would say, deserves a little more attention in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20709	Thank you for your correction, Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20710	Thank you, Mr. President. Since there is no institution in the Croatian Parliament half-accuracy, I will correct the half-incorrect quote of my colleagues, Cosic, who said that Croats want to learn with the fact that Croats also want to learn. I have such an example at home, a student who wants to learn and learn and already as a student has met the conditions for enrolment of doctorate because she has some CC published work in magazines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20711	Half-correction? We are enriching parliamentary practice with new institutes. [[Agreement: Half-Adjustment!]] Replica, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20712	Thank you very much. Here, I'd like to point out from professor's speech. Cosic, his main thought, is quality, quality and quality again. In this report we've seen signs of that, we've seen guidelines to go from quantity to quality. I'd only supplement it and in some ways ask for a line of professors. Cosic, on the example he set when he was in a foreign higher school, which is also a scientific institution. All of us who have been in such institutions know that this is absolutely the hardest job and the hardest activity. In other words, you come to work at 8:00 in the morning, never leave work half the night, it's a higher education and it's science. And there's no more responsible business than that, because your work, your efforts, sweat and tears depend on the future of the country. So here's to asking Professor Cosic what he thinks will lead to competition in the staff, which will lead to among our universities, universities, etc. Competition and staff market are also the strictest market, and we will see in a few years the staff from which universities and universities receive good positions, good and responsible positions with good salaries and which remain at the Employment Service, which means that the total investment in this chamber was in vain. So, I stand for the human market that will profile and profile today's network of universities, universities and all levels of higher education because the only labour market is the real assessment of the university. And we learned that by watching that battle that many countries abroad led, some won, some lost. Croatia must be a winner in that battle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20713	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20714	Thank you. I thank Professor Hebrang for the replica, I thank Professor Hebrang and as a respected and respected Croatian but not only Croatian but also world scientist from the area he has been dealing with for decades, I absolutely support everything Professor Hebrang said in his opening presentation, because I would say not only Professor Hebrang but everyone else has particularly highlighted the importance of quality. But what is very important, quality is ensured by hard, persistent work, and even when the institution where you study in terms of teaching, in terms of the competence of people who teach does not provide it, as individuals, as young students, as future scientists, agree with what is said, invest in yourself, it will certainly be worth it to you. Because the characteristic of the modern world and the competitive economy is the society of knowledge, because if you are part of that society by your knowledge, your work, your abilities, then you will surely have what you've advocated, what you've invested in, not little energy and effort, work from morning to evening. But it's not just a contribution to yourself, it's the best contribution to society you live in. And I would say, today, just as we have worked hard to build Croatia, defended it during the Homeland War, so we must build it in peace with this kind of energy, effort and effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20715	Next replica, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20716	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I'll replicate to you in the part where you, Mr. Representative, touch the structure of education. What is unfortunately and tragically relatively noticeable is that in the last 15 years, the number of highly educated engineers has increased by only 2%, while the number of highly educated humanists has increased by 60%. In any case, it's good that we have more seniors but it's not enough to invest only in higher education in the song, but it's also necessary to invest structurally. We can learn this from the application of Ireland, which has led to its innovations, means in the education sector innovation and in economic terms. Because unfortunately for us, with all due respect, professors of Croatian language, history cannot guarantee the competitiveness of industry or our export capacities, and we need to go in order to produce more electrical engineering engineers, you yourself have touched mathematics and physics, shipbuilding, meaning interests that Croatia will be able to put in the context of competitiveness for a longer period, and unfortunately today such a situation is not. And we're one of the last ones in the high-tech industry, so high-tech, and that's what all of us need to be concerned about, and the fact that in the last 15 years, the increase in that part is only 2% while in humanistic sciences is an increase of 60%.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20717	Replicate reply Mr Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20718	Thank you very much for your comment and your replica. I certainly did not stress for no reason the importance of the structure of education that you have also highlighted in your replica on my presentation. I think it is very important that the importance of this structural education that contributes to economic growth, competitiveness stands out in all places, and I would say especially in the Croatian Parliament, and I believe that almost everyone is supported without exception, we are in favour of all the efforts of political, financial and all the others that engineers, the best engineers, are talking about shipbuilding right now. Well, Croatian shipbuilding had its own tradition. It was very important, and I would say, and it is still equally important to have these people in full function, to the full extent that all those solutions that are in front of Croatian shipbuilding, its privatisation, through restructuring and so on. At the same time, no one has anything against humanistic science. I would say they are very important, very important, especially some; sociological research where we are, what kind of transition, what quality of this transition is but in any case the structure of education and the structure of all these higher schools and networks of universities, the university deserves our full attention and efforts to get that character and that form that corresponds to society that has the ability to grow rapidly and progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20719	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20720	Honorable Vice President, respected representatives of the National Council for Higher Education. I imagined today's debate a little differently. So I imagined today's debate that we would really have a strategic debate about seeing what was needed to do in order to achieve that programmed and declared goal for Croatia to be founded as a state of knowledge. That Croatia's development is based on knowledge. I think that the debate on what was technically done by the National Council and what forms are for the teacher's application or for the admission of students is something we may have seen but we could also download from the website in the extreme case, but I think we should get some sort of overview of what we have today in the area of higher education not in quantitative but also quantitative terms but certainly also in a qualitative sense on the one hand and on the other hand, I am very interested in what these are, which are the recommendations of the National Council for Higher Education to achieve some goals. For example, today I am interested in when, in what deadlines will we improve the education structure of the population? Whether our goal is to stay at 8% higher education, or our goal is to get to, for example, 20% higher education in the structure of the population. If it's when we're going to achieve it and what resources do we need for it? How many new high schools, universities and universities do we need? How many new teachers do we need for this? How much money do we need from the public and private sectors? So how much money do we need from the state budget and how much money are we counting on, for example, private sector contributions to the establishment of private higher education institutions? And does this structure, this number, this quality and the amount of higher education that we have today result in a new quality? With a new quality in what Professor Hebrang was saying about quality-educated personnel, but no, and Professor Ćosic, but not only so that it is one and only goal for us, because with that quality we must certainly get to the quantity. So we need to have the socially needed number of high-quality educated personnel for primarily the functioning of the system and others for progress and development. We are in a very serious situation today. The public debate is about reforming the health system. The spear breaks down about whether or not we're going to pay the administrative fee, the participation, or some other imposition, so whether we're going to turn nurses back into re-recorders there to collect, write payments. However, this is not one of the fundamental problems of the health system. We today have a chronic or vast lack of a large number of doctors for the functioning of the health system in the Republic of Croatia. We will come to this when we adopt a health reform that you have no place to pay for participation because the office will be empty. We today have a shortage of 75 pediatric teams in the Republic of Croatia. That's the question we need to give an answer to. How to ensure the functioning of systems in the public sector or in public service. We must ensure as a Croatian Parliament, and universities must ensure that this is done qualitatively so that the public, public sector that public service can function as it is expected of it. We don't have an answer for that today. Not that we have a problem with doctors' specialists. We have a problem today, and with primary health care, so we no longer have enough doctors today, nor do we have an answer to when and under what conditions and means we will come up with the necessary number of doctors. It's something that's in public, public segment, public service and what we're responsible for. We are also responsible for creating assumptions that the private sector and the economy have the necessary number of highly educated, high-quality personnel to ensure the preservation of jobs today and what is more important, of course, to ensure the development of the economy. Because the development of the economy today can and is only based on knowledge. The greater the knowledge involved in the development, the more development is certain and that is the development faster than we have today. Unfortunately, we don't have that either, we don't have the answer to that question. Today we have no answer to the question, for example, what is missing from the Croatian economy by highly educated experts? Because if we had an answer to that question, then maybe we could have guidelines and we could say what to encourage. One of the questions is if there really is a privatisation of the shipyard or that blackest scenario to the abolition of shipbuilding in Croatia, which will be with the Brodar Institute, which will be with engineering, which will be with all these other parts of higher education dedicated to research or continuing in the segment that was at the service of shipyards. This is something that is being discussed in Croatia today. If we are to discuss the construction of ships or to put an end to the construction of ships, then we must give an answer today, that is, in the budget because today's debate is the basis for the debate on the budget. How will we know in a week when we will discuss the budget whether to increase the item for higher education or not? Based on evaluations, impressions, impressions or the basis of qualitative and quantitative indicators of what we have, what you need, and thus commit to us, and then to the Government to create assumptions that these goals are achieved. Furthermore, I expected a recommendation, for example, to abolish the tuition for higher education in Croatia, because in a country where 8% of higher education is not to create consequences in public universities, higher schools and universities, a material obstacle to study. Unfortunately, we haven't increased the quota on the ministry's burden, but that's why we did this year the universities have increased the tuition for enrolment in public universities and high schools, instead of saying no, everyone will study for free. There is no reason to increase tuition in Croatia that is crying for highly educated professionals. The best investment in society is to enable everyone who has the opportunity to study and motivate them to complete their college as soon as possible and to return to the working process in the labour market, offer their knowledge that they have acquired in higher schools and universities and can contribute to new development, creating new added value in Croatia. And let me finally mention something that's happening to us in Koprivnica. We are the city that has invested in hardware in the building, in the equipment for that building 14 million kuna alone in the last five years. We are the only city in Croatia that has invested so much money in creating a presumption of higher education. Today, we have 800 students who receive a scholarship from Koprivnica and other universities, higher schools and universities in the Republic of Croatia, in the Bologna process of 5 years. So we invested in the future of the city 15 million kuna only through scholarships. If you add $14 million to that for the building we bought and adapted, it's over 30 million in investment. We think it's an investment in higher education. To get to a new one, we have a dislocated study, a pre-graduate study of Economics from Zagreb, where every year we are practically afraid that it will not occur to anyone that next academic year says dislocated studies are being abolished. Because that's how we have over 1,000 regular students in Koprivnica right now. And now we've asked for a military that's been empty for a year and a half to be assigned to a city or university or anything else to form in that military, so a new high education institution that will not only be dislocated but also founded in Koprivnica. For a year and a half, the government has no need to respond to our request, a year and a half of days ago there is no answer whether or not anything from public high schools will be established in Koprivnica and what is even more devastating two months ago has been decided to drop water from the system so that the military has failed in vain. So all the infrastructure that is in that military has failed. And instead of having at this point, I end up, 2,000 students in Koprivnica who are exclusively encouraged by the city, unfortunately we are at risk of having them less and less in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20721	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20722	My friend, I'm replicating you to what you said about free education. In principle, I could agree with that and with your thesis that you tried to explain. But at this point, at this point, we need to adjust some things first. The strategy of our country's development should also be the framework of everything. So we should know which direction we're developing, we should know what kind of personnel we need for this development policy. At this point, we're educateing staff for the Bureau of Labour and emigrating to go to Europe to look for a job. That's the kind of person we educate. So the point is, are we rich enough to educate these profiles that are nothing in line with a reasonable country strategy? So, we need first some things to solve before, and then we can say these profiles we need to educate at all costs and make it quite clear without any tuition. Others, I think we can even think about burdening ourselves because we have a huge surplus of these profiles at the Employment Services.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20723	Replicate response, Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20724	Well, in principle, I agree with you fellow Doric. However, what we have today is a situation, so if we could just sum up students, or graduates who have been educated on the burden of the ministry, we would have a huge problem in Croatia. Because those who are educated in the burden of the ministry do not satisfy even the minimal function of society, let alone the economy. So there are also a large number of students who are studying today in Croatia on the so-called for personal purposes, it is subsequently included both in the public and private sectors to do so. I spoke here in principle, for example, like in Norway. In Norway, a student chooses whether to study at a public or private university or high school. It's his duty to finish that school. If he finishes it and goes back to the labour market then the state says you don't have to pay for his education, and if he doesn't, then you have to pay for it. We today have a situation that those who study on the burden of the ministry do not end and have no obligation to the society that has invested in them, and on the other hand those who study for personal purposes and pay their tuition end because they pay, so they have an interest in ending it because they realize that it costs and they return and serve society, so they ensure the development of society. But a country that has 8% of higher education has no greater and greater goal than to ensure that the quality of education of the population structure is improved. One way is to remove a material obstacle to those who can graduate from college and have an impediment in tuition.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20725	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the National Council, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, today, mostly spears are being broken, i.e. there are doubts about the quantity and quality of higher universities in the Republic of Croatia, resulting from this report and the correction of the network of public and higher universities in the Republic of Croatia. When anywhere anyone mentions Cambridge, Oxford, Ethan, Yale, Stanford then it doesn't need to be further commented or anything else to say. It's actually a brand of countries where there are these universities. When someone mentions a high school, no offense to say in Dugopolje or Visnjan, it's hard to compare. So, we're talking about the quality of a university that we have to admit in some sense or we want to admit it or not actually become a political prestige of the powers of local or regional self-government, and according to agreements or talks or certain pressures or cooperation with the executive authority in the Republic of Croatia, or in the country. And it's clearly a public secret like this, and then the high schools are nothing like mushrooms after the rain. Which brings the mass of high schools and the mass of the university so that I can mention the universities in which there are 7 in the Republic of Croatia. Clearly, mass also brings a certain average or a lot and below. Clearly, in such a wide network there are increased opportunities and those crimes on which, here are those who care about the Index affair, and clearly that Croatia needs quality, Croatia needs to reach a European standard of 20% highly educated, Croatia needs personnel, especially from those production activities when it comes to doctors talked about by Mršić and pediatricians, 70 teams of pediatrics, missing teams in primary health care, and then 150 surgeons and so on. Well, it's clear that it's one in this system of reverse values, that we're going to increase access to these colleges that provide these personnel when the value of the work they're doing is somehow equal to at least Slovenia. If a surgeon or pediatrician has the same salary or roughly the same as in Slovenia, then there will certainly be a shift in the increase in personnel in these professions. Here you can see, on a pre-received or classified medical school exam, I've already said that today you have barely a small number of those who can be enrolled, and in law and economy, in law school and economics you have a huge pressure on classified exams. Why is that? Why is that? Well, I think most of it's clear, just for this reason I said. So, one doctor, one pediatrician, one surgeon, one primary team working in primary health care is significantly below what is in Europe or in some countries of transition in our environment. When I spoke about the fact that the establishment of a university in the plural and university is one issue of political prestige of the ruling set up mainly in a regional so-called self-government, then I must remind the present all together that of the 7 universities that exist in the Republic of Croatia, 5 of them are located on our coast. There's only one continental, or in order to say Pannonia, I'd say the University of Slavonia and Baranja, that's what in Osijek. We have University of Pula, University of Rijeka, Zadar, Split and Dubrovnik. If we look at the number of residents and all the other parameters and indicators, it is difficult to justify, although I am not for any of these universities to be abolished precisely because of those needs that Croatia has for highly educated personnel, but I remember the well-intentioned torments that the Grand School had in Slavonski Brod for establishment or foundation, however you will in 2006. There are also former mayors and mayors or deputy mayors, so they remember those moments in 2005 and 2006 when the Veleučište in Slavonski Brod was born. When we look at the report, or projection of a network of public higher universities in the Republic of Croatia, then on page 78 you have a table picture of the number of secondary schools and students in the final classes in the counties and cities. Why would I bring that up? Well, because those high schools are recruiting, let's say the students of the university and the universities, the colleges and those high schools that say finished first graders, and then we see a good-looking data. I'm saying again, I'm not referring to anything in the sense that I want to cancel something, that, for example, in the same table, they're together to each other in Brod-Posavia and Zadar County. The same number of students in the final class, the number of classes and so on, and the average number of residents per school is far higher, for example, in Brod-Posavina County than in Zadar County, and yet Zadar has a university, there is also a tradition in that sense and I say that I respect it. But in any case, when there are already gentlemen here from the National Council I think they should be told that in some projection, as someone has said here for 5, 10 years, in any case the university on the continent, so in Slavonia and Baranja, in a region which, therefore east of Zagreb, and by the number of inhabitants and by all other parameters, is exactly the same thing as Slavonski Brod, so I ask that in the future when we receive these reports and given the advantages that this city has, one transit to say accommodation, the whole section along the Sava River from thus almost from Sisak to Juba is gravitating this sixth largest city in Croatia. I don't want anyone to object to me that here, just before I talked about... the high school, etc. But I want that grade to be as objective as I said there are five universities, when I say it like this under the quotes of "seas" I've already talked about them. So when this high-school network is also working, then let this be a contribution to the debate. Clearly, the development strategy spoken by Mr Doric, the development strategy should be to say exactly what kind of personnel we need, so which profiles we need and should encourage the enrolment of students to these universities and what Mršić spoke of, so free of charge at these universities. Furthermore, when speaking to the Bologna process at high schools and universities, there are certain remarks from the students themselves that for example. When they finish or when they study this first degree or, as they say, undergraduately, they have major problems if they want to continue their education at the graduate school. They actually have to go back to that first year as far as I know from some of the examples I personally know, from some of the people I personally know. So they have to come back again so I don't say first grade, first year or semester of graduate studies. The differences they have to make in order to move from this first degree to graduate studies are so large, so large a number of cases that it's actually impossible. If there is a possibility, if this is so arranged in Europe okay, but if you can continue this study as a graduate study, then in any case, first-degree programmes should be adapted and so on in the graduate study, and this may be a contribution to reaching more highly educated people in the Republic of Croatia faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20727	Thank you. A few replicas. Representative Mr Davorko Vidovic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20728	I'm just trying to replicate something that later my colleague didn't eventually develop, but it's left hanging in the air, the the thesis that the more university, the more university, the more high school institutions that he's going to get used to or I've gotten the impression that you want to say lower the quality of this calling, which I think is a dangerous thesis, and it's not good to be like that. The elitist character of higher education had and can make sense of some in the 19th century, but today when the elementary data is compared, the percentages of highly educated in Croatia, highly educated in the countries of Central European, European Union environment, and especially the most developed countries are not just talking about it with a denser network, more integration,... the programme, etc. not to decrease but to increase quality. [[You don't understand.]] A growing base from which can then be generated and professional and scientific studies but also form institutes. Here's an illustration that works. The city of Sisak, which today has no university, unfortunately, had one of the strongest metallurgical institutes and universities in the region, so beyond Yugoslavia. 60 magistrates and a doctor of science worked at that institute. Today it's completely crushed, there's nothing in the trail. If we consider that we have had such oasis and scientific and professional personnel and institutions it should be a basis to develop not only universities as a first step but also to have as many universities as possible. I don't see that in any way would reduce the quality of education. I see Sisak as a university town, not just a university.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20729	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Broro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20730	Thank you, Mr. Agent Vidovic. I like Sisak, and I believe he's going to work at the university, and he deserves it. And when it comes to this first part of your replica about quality. I was just talking about what someone was saying here to say about flying Hollandes, or about flying professors who really can't give what to students that we could go through in different conditions, that's what I was talking about, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20731	Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20732	Vice President, honourable council representatives. I think a colleague has raised a lot of interesting and important questions, one question is the divorce of the network. I'd like to join this a little bit with the thesis that it's very easy to set up universities, universities in 500 cities, it's not a problem. We don't have people. We don't have people to teach it, and that's why the phenomenon of flying professors happens, and unfortunately from personal experience, I see that in many higher education institutions quality is not good not because students are stupid but because no one has any serious skills to teach. Unfortunately, we have examples of flying professors outside the Republic of Croatia, we have, our teachers fly to Mostar and it's interesting, then they teach Croatian law and not Bosnian Herzegovic law, I don't know what it is for them there. That's one thing. Another interesting question is the passing between the university and the university. There's a problem that we don't have the right... what we'd say. The truth is, we even have some times the same objects both at the university and at the university, but the difference in quality and what is required is so great that some times it's really not possible to establish that network. And finally, the Bologna Process. The Bologne process was the response of Europe to the American approach and the labour market with the idea of shortening the study, that people would go to the labour market as soon as possible after three years, and that some would go back to... what they would say, and we saw that the rector and dean were, and I think that maybe the minister was, they actually acknowledged the defeat of Bologna because celebrating the first furniture of the Bolivians they said, all but three continue to study. So only the idea of the Bologna code has not reached us, but again now I say it does not work perhaps a system of higher education but it is a question and I think that every country must see to what extent and how Bologna applies in view of its state of labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20733	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20734	Mr. Professor, fellow MP, thank you very much. You've obviously listened very carefully to my argument and we're pretty much getting along, except for that part about Mostar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20735	And Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20736	Comrade Grubisic, you're really... a series of very interesting topics or sub-topics related to Slovenia that you mentioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think he's a colleague, Mršić, and others have given models how it can be overcome. Therefore, there is no need to equate wages with Slovenia. If someone is being educated for free, if...... If someone doesn't return the tuition when they're successful, but if they go abroad, then they return the tuition to Norway and other countries, so that's one model. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I would also mention to Slovenia something we didn't talk about today, which we didn't talk about at all. Slovenia is free of charge to educate many foreign citizens. Why? To keep them tomorrow, because they need you, you and those profiles. Normally, efforts from surrounding countries will attract young people who will stay and develop their economy in Slovenia. So that's one policy we haven't talked about, and we should definitely keep in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20737	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20738	Thank you, Mr. Doric, for your replica, but I don't think you've listened to me very closely. Namely, I've turned around about a system of depraved or depraved values, the validity of professions and people in this society. It's actually a taste of my discussion. So, if someone like you know or recognize a celibacy entrepreneur, and is on welfare, comes with Cherokee Jeep, brings a child to kindergarten and on social care, and a colleague pays 800 kuna, as a fellow doctor I speak, not a fellow representative, but also a fellow representative, then that's it, and it's not about anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20739	Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20740	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This topic actually here today shows that I can personally sign here almost anything that has been discussed, discussed, contributed, replicated, regardless of party and other belongings. That's nice to meet you. What makes me sad? I am saddened by this material, but it is not the culprits of those who sit there, now I welcome them later, but it is actually a question of where we are today, and I am not going to talk about everything that fellow Mršić spoke of, which was spoken of by colleagues Hebrang, Cosic, and that I am not counting, in fact almost everyone. In fact, it's obvious that we've come to a situation that's matured time, the crisis is at the door, at the door, or already deep in it and in us, that the moment when we really need society, and we represent that society, we put on the agenda a question of education, higher education and education. I repeat, since I'm signing everything that's been said, I'm going to make a small remark that the universities, that universities, that high schools. But unfortunately, we also have the appearance of a Croatian syndrome. A Croat when he wants to be president of something, starts a party. And that's why there's so many parties. If he can't be president in one party, then he stands out and forms another to be president. We have people in this sphere who want to be dean, who want to have their own university. Those who sit there know what I'm talking about, and it's no place to call the public. And then you have a situation, now I'm going to be a little local-patriotic, like my colleague Ivkovic, so I'm going to do a little with a few details. The rules that are written here for universities and this, I sign them, I'm not a profession, but like a politically conscious person, I can sign that these are criteria that drink water. For Croatia they are problematic because we are the shape we are, so those 50 or 100 kilometers is always questionable on which side you measure. But there's no need here, I'll give you an example. The city of Zabok for 40 years has had separate studies or dislocated studies of the Faculty of Economics from Zagreb, now 20 years of the Opatija Tourist Management and Back 4 years of the Faculty of Organization and Informatics from Varazdin. We started with 5% of the young, children from the Zagorje area who were enrolling. And you know that between 2% and 3% of the seniors in our county are represented. There are 65% of them today. If that's a result, I think we can be satisfied. Zabok has three high schools, not because Zabok is special, but God gave him a place to locate where he is, that he is close to 25 kilometers away from Zagorje. I was now at a ministerial university in Brussels and Bonn during my stay, and I started talking to people about the contact of cross-border cooperation that Europe supports for what counterpart Vidovic said, as said my colleague, Ćosic. By moving industry from Zagreb, we have greenfield investment outside coming into the area where we will need engineers and electric engineers. The undergraduate study. No one wants to open it, no one wants to think about these initiatives, and we put ourselves in Zabok for the purpose of not being the goal of the university when we're half an hour away from Zagreb, that it's more practical, my colleague, if I've heard correctly I apologized, it's easier to talk about what is not a profession where a special laboratory needs a teacher to get to a student than a student, but that the student pays 200, 300 or 500 euros for accommodation so food, so everything else, I don't know in Opatija. Recommendation that should be because Krapina should become a center, don't count on clean local patriotism we are in relations like Sibenik and Zadar. But now the Krapina gets higher education, and we would eventually become the exhibit of that university in Zabok after 40 years of experience. Let's just ignore it. And to another problem, essentially, a recommendation, what should we turn to? And that's what it says, among other things, that agriculture programmes should be. I have to tell you I'm trying to get four young people who have finished the agronomial job. As you have interventions, we all have them, and unfortunately there's no way. I can only work as salesmen in agricultural pharmacies. A suggestion that we train farmers, and we need engineers and electricians. I'm an electrician of origin, so don't take this literally. An electrical engineering engineer or something that used to be driven by motor engineers. Today it's undergraduate study. I mean, I think it's really us, like the assembly of this Parliament after we've declared everything we need to agree to with Brussels, that it's really coming to our agenda, that nobody wanted to do, the school's networks. It is a delicate political issue, sensitive, around a network of higher education institutions and what Mršić said specifically, to stimulate an absolute and maximum deficit, it is a bit of an already deformed phrase, deficit chamber and staff, at the expense of the state. And whoever wants to pick something else that the state doesn't have a priority for, pay. However, I don't know how much you know, the scholarships at the universities in private and others today range from five and 600 to seventeen and 600 thousand kuna. It's an extremely attractive business. And that's why it's hard to get rid of this, which is what fellow Hebrang was talking about, unfortunately, and our university professors who don't find at their home places to make appropriate incomes are forced to sometimes and run, to visit. That's what I'm saying about honest people, but there's a lot of cases where they don't actually work, but they definitely work. And so my call with these remarks, remarks, the desire to talk on regional ones, but it is hard for some time for political reasons and politics to go, to initiate and to support the initiative to bring about a broader debate on these issues that will not be determined by some deadlines, some harmonisations, because I think that in crises the situation is always mature to make some strategic and capital decisions, is easier to make and to ensure for this country a secure future not only to fill or meet our own needs for schooled staff, but also that our youth in a new, wide, open Europe has a chance not to be when from the Balkans for another, a third level of jobs, but to really compete equally with all those who go to prestigious schools in the West. I think we have that and that competition is necessary, but not any competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20741	Thank you. Mr. Zdenko Franjić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20742	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, honored Mr. National Council for Higher Education, colleagues and colleagues. The goal of every developed democratic society is to have a high-quality, highly educated workforce that will achieve a knowledge-based economy, i.e. to achieve a knowledge society that is so dear to all of us. The National Council for Higher Education, together with the National Council for Science, as bodies providing guidance for the development of the system, must simply act on the promotion of higher education, science and economics, i.e. to accelerate the transfer of knowledge from the science and higher education systems to the economy, i.e. concrete economic projects. Unfortunately, when this report is read, it is full of technical, bureaucratic details, statistics and ephemerals, but does not indicate certain failures, and I doubt that we have made so much progress that we have a sinless system, does not indicate strategic steps, there is no evaluation of the Bologna Process, there is no consideration of the budget as instruments that make a certain policy, there is not even a conclusion, nor a recommendation, but it ends with actually nothing. Our goal in the Republic of Croatia is therefore to have as many highly educated persons as possible, but very little or almost nothing is known about the structure of highly educated persons in Croatia. And about their qualitative structure in certain educational areas, but also the age structure. So before a certain time he became one piece of information that over 50% of Croatian doctors of science are over 50 years old, and now every honour to 50-year-olds, today and every balavian is 50 years old, but still they do not represent the strength that should lead Croatian science and education towards European projects and a quality economy. Where is it with the labour market and employers' needs? That's not in the report. Where's the midterm? For example, there is still no clear interrelationship between national graduation and higher education. We are witnessing that individual colleges as enrolment conditions simply condition the knowledge of English as "condicio son quo non" but what is with students who learn, say, French or German. Don't we need economists who are excellent in German or French? Therefore, it is necessary to agree on the proselyzing of college conditions with the conditions prescribed by the state's graduation because the state's graduation says one foreign language is needed, it is not an explicit one. So maybe it would be good if colleges didn't get involved in the mandatory part of the state's graduation, but in the voluntary part. The fact is that in the Croatian education system, teaching courses are poorly entered, which even tolerates this High House in a special way. For example, let us remember the Law on Sanitary Inspectors where the explicits are laid down conditions for who can be a sanitary inspector so all the engineers themselves are listed, and let's say for biologists they are tolerated to be also professors of biology, so biology teachers can also be sanitary inspectors. But what has been blamed by professors such as chemistry or physics professors when we know that professors or chemists, physicists and biologists have the strictest conditions for elections in scientific titles that are double or hundredfold, or fivefold higher than the conditions prescribed for many other professions. So we also open up the problem of unequal conditions for elections in scientific titles, especially when it comes to interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research, so it is often an example that one team of experts and three or five times more papers are involved in a scientific project or a scientific institute than one of his fellow scientific advisors, for example, if it is about the cooperation of one chemist and some other professions on the project. We have established a cult cc works, so works that are published in magazines indexed in the Karan content database. The question arises, "What about home-made magazines?" Where is the excellence of local magazines? Writing in domestic magazines is detimizing especially when it comes to technical and natural science professions and domestic magazines should be a polygon especially for young scientists. What is the condition that at least for the choice of title, at least one work must be published in Croatian, and that is to cultivate terminology, to develop Croatian language. Finally, it is known that Article 73. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement requires the acceptance of 85% of European standards as a condition for Croatia's full membership in Europe. How do we translate these norms when English has several hundred thousand or several million words for which there are no Croatian versions and those businessmen who will work to comply with these standards, on their implementation in the economy simply should not be language advisers and experts, it must be done by scientists and experts in the field for which we must have adequate education through the system of science and higher education, so it is a paradox that such simply conditions do not have, that this is detimizing, to say as a minimum condition for progress in calling for example in physics, which is my profession publishing a textbook brings absolutely nothing. I mean, these are the paradoxes that should simply be solved in order for the system to go forward and in my opinion, and this report had to be dealt with by such random examples, dealing with the metrics, not just by listing statistical indicators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20743	Thank you. And final review by the president of the National High Education Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20744	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I'd say my first impression by listening to the debate at this honorable home. I am just pleased that the Assembly has been sensitive to this subject to the extent that many MPs have participated in the debate. Of course, everything you've said to me as president of the National Council is very well known and that the National Council is struggling with it from session to session, but I would say some small comments I would say this moment. And first of all, it's about those comments from part of the MPs that mentioned the network projection. It is simply not a topic of today's discussion, it is only an annual report and the network will be the topic of this honorable home at the second time where the National Council has drawn up its document and expressed its position. Of course it will also experience certain changes after discussion and discussion in this House. This clearly applies to several MPs. Also, I would say something else, that MPs must understand that some of the things in the report may be statistically burdensome, but they are necessary and this report is important and I would also say within the National Council itself but also in relation to everything that makes the system. These documents have a very good strategy to come up with. You must consider that the National Council is the body to be created, which should have been said to articulate in this system of higher education. And I'd say the greatest effort, not the greatest, but one part of the effort was to articulate documents that were strategic. In this report, there is not one important information, which is that someone would submit an orderly request for the opening of a certain high institution or a new study, it must meet certain requirements that are rejected in advance without starting the procedure on the national council. And you need to know that the National Council has done that task that can be called to prevent the Romanianisation of higher education in Croatia. And when you're reading the statistical number of credentials in 2005 for a pre-graduate, graduate study of about 8 hundred you need to know that these 800 adjustments to the existing system are to get certain documents in accordance with the law and with our country's orientation that goes towards the bologna. A lot of things have been touched in your debate, and I must say that as president of the National Council, I will take all the parts of the debate that are useful to the National Council and take good care of them. But I must also have one small comment that the National Council is, not a political body but a professional one is not, therefore, that is the body that this Assembly, this whole body has brought and surely, I assure all MPs to work that this National Council is working towards the respecting only the criteria of the profession, the criteria of the interest of the entire society and the development of higher education at all. And I think it's an interest for all of us! I am also pleased that some MPs have seen, not noticed, but stressed that quality is very important. It's also important that, I would say, this mass, not mass but wider one base must not outgrown its own purpose, to become a simple polygon for a certain enlightenment of the entire system, that the national council takes care of it. But also the national takes care of that document that this Honorable Parliament also voted on, it is the Law on Higher Education which accurately determines and determines the most important strategic tasks of the entire system, which is polyndriality and it is a national council that has greatly respected it. But that part will be much more comprehensive when the discussion of the other document, which is the network, is the projection of the higher education network. I must also say that no recommendation brought by the National Council did not change the Ministry or the Government, but strictly respected the recommendations of the National Council as an advisory body of course the entire system. So it is not possible, given the criteria that the National Council is leading, which I said earlier, with the sole interest of profession and development, it is not possible in any way to act politically on the national council, nor will it, as long as I am president, be possible in the future. As for the part of the debate on the so-called Traveling professors, or as he said to fellow Hebrang, wandering professors. It is a pain that the National Council greatly respects. And it has prepared, together with the higher education agency, a data bank with all indicators of the professor's obligations where it will be visible immediately where all his obligations are. So to prevent one of these, I'd say work that doesn't bring development, especially new studies. Dear MPs, here, I'd say that some parts of your discussion exceed this item of the agenda today. It is, however, an annual report from one body, and I assure you, given the strategic role Croatia has entered, and that is the bologna if it were just, I would say step into the process. And I don't have to repeat it, and I'd say in the report, possibly touch it, this is a good-looking word, it's going well, it's one of the orientations we've already set before us. It is particularly emphasized that this was spent in 2007 in post-graduate studies, in specialist and doctoral studies, and that much of what the National Council and encouraged interdisciplinaryism and that many studies were open. I'll only give you one example when I touched it, one postgraduate study between the Faculty of Education and the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb. It was just impossible before, now it exists. But there are thousands of such examples, and I would not bother this home with such a report. Anyway, thank you for the debate. As president of the National Council, I will transfer many parts of your debate to the National Council. And until the next time it's called a far more important document, it's a projection of the network, when I'm going to show up in front of this House again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20745	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20746	We're going to vote on the points. First, Report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2007, Carrier: National Council for Higher Education of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: "The report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2007 is accepted". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by the majority of 74 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 39 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20747	We will go to the following point: - Annual report on the work for 2007 of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, Carrier: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data; which is the basis of Article 31. The Act on the Protection of Personal Data of the Agency submitted this report. The debate was conducted by the Committees on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The government delivered an opinion. The Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency FranJo Lacko will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20748	Honored Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. In this report, which I would like may be bigger, however, in the future we will probably also issue in particular for you a book where you may be able to see in more detail, compare the meaning of our work, means those members of the European Union. In this report, we have tried to show examples this time, meaning our supervision in the bodies of the state administration, public authorities and all those who exercise public authority, at the same time, normally showing that you are as a body and we as an independent body, means competent to us and means to you in some way, to say the bill, means to show in it from the spending of our funds, to our means of employees, to what we do on the path of fulfilling our obligations to the European Union when it comes to the area of protection of personal data. I'd just be here just yet, so I think that being able to explain more means giving if there are any of your questions, so look around a little bit about certain cases that were therefore in the media. So this agency has always had to be confirmed as an independent body that has its views, it has to be law enforcement, and if some legal solutions are possibly possibly not the best, it certainly doesn't mean the Agency's task means that it corrects it. Through this means there was therefore the most mentioned meaning register of Croatian defenders and you might have noticed recently, so in one magazine it means that such a detailed independent expert means fully confirmed that the agency therefore respected and respected the law in its work. When it comes to the meaning of the state administration and the bodies of the public authority we are here so we have given examples that you see it means that we have knocked almost at the door of all ministries primarily the Ministry of Interior which is the largest normally in each country is he's the greatest host of the meanings of personal data. He's got the most collection. So everything means to those who possibly mean they have certain agencies that have meanings in this perhaps less of these records and just a few collections. Which is ours, so we are not hiding means that we have tried and that according to everything that is, what experts and experts of the European Union who regularly visit us and follow us means that we, our tasks do well, but certainly means that we have a lot more to do and certainly we haven't done all our tasks fully. That means we're going to need a little more meaning in the media and we're going to have to teach more citizens their rights and we're also going to have to look for means that the register of that central, that's the central database means that somehow more fills in means that this obligation is being fulfilled to a greater extent because it means a little less. In the report, too, you have noticed here that although our internship is somewhat short that we have tried to show ourselves and means according to the meaning of the Union, to the European Union, so that we are active in all regional associations and Europeans and, in the end, we are also already being admitted in accordance with Article 29 of the European Union Directive, we have already received us more and not as observers, but as a permanent member who means to carry out all those obligations and tasks, it participates in preparing proposals for the meaning of the legal provision. That's where I speak when it comes to Europe. And so we can say that in this area we are practically in the field of protection of personal data means practically as in the European Union. I'm usually here, and it means that there's a lot more of our obligations. We haven't fully met everything, but given the number of people, the resources, and so I think that means we've still fulfilled everything that was primary and priority. Because I'm saying we're going to issue a book for MPs that you're going to get somewhere in 2, 3 months so you can see that for example it means no Baltic country, and you know size, so it can serve as a comparison that has less employees than we do. One Macedonia so you even know the size of that country is 17 and so on and so forth. But this agency and I, too, can say the same means that I am aware of what it means in this way means that our country can have a number of other financial obligations and that means everything that's priority means we've done. Here I am expecting means if there are any questions to explain more I thank you for your attention and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20749	Thank you. The Committee's rapporteurs? The Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the political system? Information, information, media? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20750	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. We have an annual report on the work for 2007 of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data delivered to the Croatian Assembly on the basis of the provision of Article 31. The law on the protection of personal data. In accordance with Article 32 of the Treaty on the The Data Protection Act of the Data Protection Agency shall carry out the following tasks from, as public authorities: monitors the implementation and protection of personal data, indicates observed abuses of personal data collection, draws up a list of countries and international organisations that have adequate personal data protection, resolves... The law establishing infringements of the right guaranteed by law shall be governed by a central register, which shall combine records of personal data collections supplied by the controllers in accordance with the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Agency shall also carry out other tasks under Article 33 of the Act. Under the applicable rules, the financial resources for work are provided in the state budget. For 2007 the agency was allocated an amount of 6 million 945 thousand kuna and 6 million 713 thousand 813 kuna or 96.7% of the total amount was spent. It is necessary to stress that the Law on the Protection of Personal Data of the Republic of Croatia is in compliance with the legal property of the Community and, although the practice has shown the sustainability and enforceability of the existing law, the point of non-compliance which is examined in Article 13 and which relates to the transfer of data abroad required further harmonisation in relation to Articles 25 and 26. EU Directive 95/46. As the Law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act was adopted this year and further harmonisation was carried out with Article 26 of the Directive, i.e. a more detailed transfer of personal data from the Republic of Croatia, the Agency ended the implementation of the legislative measures set out for implementation within the framework of the preparation of the Schengen Action Plan. The report is also appropriate to cooperate with the European Union bodies on the accession process to the European Union. Chapter 8 of the report detailed cooperation, participation in projects of state authorities and public authorities such as the Ministry of Justice, the Central State Office for Development Strategy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Government's Office for Human Rights, the Ministry of Finance, the Central Office of Customs Administration, the Government's Office for E Croatia, the Office for the control of drug abuse of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In Chapter IX. The Agency's conduct is described on requests from state authorities, legal persons and citizens. In 2007, a total of 124 irregular cases were received, the question of what was the share of opinions 81, and the share of other items, answers and indications was 43. The examinations of the above-mentioned entities mainly relate to the following topics: the request concerning the delivery of records of personal data collections and the general obligations of the personal data collection manager, for example by insurance companies, users of various services, etc. Delivery of data. The requests were related to the delivery, i.e. the exchange of data between state authorities of the most common MUP, the publication of data most frequently on the web, the transfer of data from the Republic of Croatia to other countries, the use of video surveillance at the workplace, the unauthorised provision of data to other users, the monitoring of the presence at the workplace, signed books and magnetic cards, the use of geometric devices with cards, enquiries in the greater protection of specific categories of personal data and biometrics through various aspects. Enquiries and opinions for the Ministry of the Interior, for the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity, trade unions were further set out. At the request of the personal data collection manager, opinions are given on the adequateness of the protection of personal data in other countries. A review of the surveillance carried out by the Agency is presented in Chapter X. During 2007, a total of 589 cases were recorded, of which 543 cases were handled under official duty relating to the protection of personal data, and in 49 cases on the basis of applications for the protection of the right to the protection of personal data, i.e. complaints from citizens and third parties, trade unions, associations and the like. The total number of controls carried out in 2007 with the total number of controls in 2006 is also compared to the total increase in surveillance of 83 compared to the previous year. The exercise of supervision determined the state of protection of personal data and the treatment of the Personal Data Protection Act, the rules on how to manage and form and the records of personal data collections, and the Regulation on how to store and the specific technical protection measures of the specific categories of personal data. It has been established that a number of personal data collection managers who have been subject to surveillance have still not established and provided records of personal data collections in the central register. For these reasons, the establishment and delivery of records has been ordered in the course of surveillance. The report concludes that in 2007 it marked the confirmation of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data as a surveillance entity and as a partner in the protection of privacy. Many new obligations received by the Agency confirm that the Republic of Croatia in the field of protection of personal data has been included in ways and forms of action by seeking the best solution to many challenges and overall action required by one future member of the European Union. A number of regulations are now required by the Agency in due time and receive an opinion on the protection of personal data in those regulations. The agency's work as a supervisory body is obvious and not questioned. As it points out, raising citizens' awareness, increasing the responsibility of the debtors to protect and apply privacy and increasing information security, education of young people on the importance of this area and good and effective action on meeting the obligations of future members are the main tasks ahead in the next period. From the above, it is apparent that the report for the previous year of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is complete and comprehensive and the HDZ Representatives' Club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20751	Thank you. HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20752	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Director. It seems to me that the way to approach this topic is intended to degrade this topic, and that would not be good. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is an extremely important institution in our legal system. It's one of the newest institutes we have. It is an institute that we are introducing on the trail of international experiences, including the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union. We have witnessed in recent years how and how often there has been a violation of citizens' rights in this area of protection of personal data. I would say that the debate on the Corps of Personal Data Protection issues has been practically taking place since the time when the unique number of citizens, i.e. when it has been abolished as public data, has been troubled. But let's go back to the Agency's report on the work in 2007. It's not as bright as it seems and as it wants to be shown at first sight. And we at the Croatian People's Party club want to point out several very important problems. In order to know what we're talking about, we need to say that 26 people work in the Agency. It's a big body of state administration. I don't know if I'm going to be wrong if I say that there's not that many people working at SCOCK either. So 26 of these highly qualified people do business among other 124 queries, i.e. irregular objects. It's impressive that part of the surveillance, five hundred and something to ask, solutions, memos. But when everything is summed up and taken away, I'm afraid 26 people in that agency don't work at full capacity. Although the fact is, and this report shows that the number of complaints is growing, citizens reporting, increasing number of irregular cases, growing number of controls, and is expected to be slightly better used in 2008. What are the agency's assignments? I'll hold on to one. It points to the observed abuses of personal data collection. What does it look like in practice? One of the most secluded cases is so-called The Erste Invest case mentioned in this report. For those who have not read the report, I will repeat that Zagreb's HVIDRA has reported this to no less than no one else, but the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, i.e. the Defence Fund's Management Board, that it has unlawfully passed on a large amount of personal data from Croatian defenders to a private company called Erste. And now what's going on? Therefore, the disputed contract is signed by the ministry, i.e. the board of directors, on 21 January 2005. The reaction of the Zagreb HVIDRA includes the agency and you can imagine that there has been data transfer through the CD, unencrypted data, large amounts of unencrypted data and that a whole series of rules on the protection of personal data have been violated. The Ministry corrects a mistake by signing a contract that will actually protect the security of that data, but when? November 19th, 2007. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, a private company was able to obtain and dispose of all data with which the Assembly could not, and these are data from the defence register. It's the highlight of hypocrisy not only of the government, but of these agencies. And while we're at it, let's talk about another case. It is known that the Croatian People's Party club has launched an initiative to publish a general part of the Croatian defence register. That's what we talked about last week. I think we've said a lot to each other that we should have sat down and, on the other hand, but I remind ourselves that in her report, the agency has written explicits on the inquiry of the said ministry as well as several journalists and others, the agency has given the opinion that according to the existing regulations, the register of Croatian defenders cannot be published. The Director of the Agency explained, with several statements, such a position published among other things on the Agency's website. I remind you, this is a report for 2007 and this is not accurate information, not to say some difficult qualification. I will now quote what the agency said on 16 July 2007, so only this report could have been covered, and this report could have included only that opinion. So, on 16 July 2007, the director of the agency, Mr. Franjo Lacko, signs the following sentences: "Because the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families, as well as the Regulation on the Single Register of Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War, does not require the public publication of data contained in the single register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, is the opinion of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data that there is no obligation of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity on the public publication of data from the single register" and so on. The agency's opinion is that there is no obligation of the ministry, and I read here in this report that the agency said that according to the existing rules, the register of Croatian defenders cannot be published. Either I can't read and understand or someone here has falsified the truth. What the agency is calling for in its report, the agency wrote only in April this year. I'll read it now. And why did she write that? Because the family ministry didn't like the formulation in that first opinion, so she asked for an additional opinion, or the agency's position, and now the agency has concreteized its position and says, "It is clear that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has no legal assumption that the data from the register is being published." But the agency continues to engage in political assessments and says: "The agency will not engage in comments by arbitrary, unfathomable and unfounded conclusions of the proposings in that opinion of the agency as the final opinion requested in connection with the request of the HNS Club of Representatives. Therefore, the agency that corresponds to this Parliament accuses the club of making comments on arbitrary, unsupervised and unfounded conclusions. Thank you very much, Mr. Director. I think the business of political competition and evaluation of the work of the Croatian People's Party is someone else's, not yours. Now that we're talking about it, we should read both opinions and point to a whole series of illogicalities that they write in both opinions, which is a game of words, one bureaucratic gaps that tries to cloud the true state of things and then skips the basic information about what the laws really mean, and that means the Law on Defense, the Rules on the Single Register, and then the Constitution, and then the Law on the Protection of Personal Data really do say. Since it is possible to write an opinion in which explicits are said to be data, personal data is therefore spoken of as regulated in Article 7(1) and (2). Personal data protection laws may continue to be collected with the consent of respondents or in cases of a specific law. And since this case is defined by law, and among other things it is said, I will now quote it a little wider because Article 7 is said "in cases of a certain law or, inter alia, if data processing is necessary in order to fulfil the task carried out in the public interest." If this is not a public interest, and they have shown it on behalf of the public, not only defence associations, some not all, but also a large number of politicians in the Republic of Croatia, newspapers, media, then it is actually an attempt to cover the government's political interest with the legal opinion of the agency. It's below the level of assignment and public functions of the agency. I will mention one more case and thus conclude on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club. If it is true that the agency points to the observed abuses of personal data collection, then it is not clear to me how is it possible that the report states that a high level of information security has been achieved in the banking sector and I ask what that means? Does this mean that banks have collected personal data in a legitimate way or have established a system of information security that stores data regardless of how they collected it, and I will now tell you a specific case. It is known, then, that to go to the Russian Federation, you must have a visa. In order to pay for the visa, you must pay the cost of the visa at the expense of the embassy according to a special contract between the Russian Federation and the Volks Bank. When you go to the Volks Bank office, the first question they tell you, we ask your citizens' home number. On my explicit refusal to give a birth number, they said sorry, but then we can't conduct the transaction. I said show me the regulation, bring me the manager of the business so he can explain to me what way, with which right you want to bring me into the register of your clients and take away my home number of citizens. When I set myself up that way, then all of a sudden everything could have happened without the citizens' home number. On a daily basis, this problem is faced by a large number of citizens and I do not understand that we see everything, but we do not see such a way of handling banks, because in this bank that I mentioned is not one and is not the only. With this in relation to the club of the Croatian People's Party cannot support such a report by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20753	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20754	Mr. Vice President, I'm going to correct the assumption where my colleague Beus claimed that it was an illegal fund for, i.e. The management board of the fund unlawfully allowed Erste to invest as a private company to dispose of the data. No, that is all the law on the rights of Croatian defenders is founded, in the Law on and the Rules on the Register of Croatian Defence, and cannot be used except for that purpose, which is for the acquisition of rights from the Defence Fund to other purposes, neither the Bank nor the Asset Management Fund can use data for any other purpose other than payment and keeping records. So they're protected and still. And it is incorrect that a move away from the law has been made, because it is clear that the article of the law that speaks about the Croatian Defence Fund as well as the regulation defines how to collect and use data on Croatian defenders. Therefore, insinuation that it has been made and removed from the law that data is available to everyone is not true. The bank is being used and Erste invests only for the payment of the shares registered with them and cannot be used for other purposes at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20755	House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20756	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of the debate, we would like to say that the Croatian Peasant Party will support the report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2007. We will support it because it shows that the Agency is recognised through the implementation of activities as a partner in the protection and control of citizens' privacy and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is making efforts in the field of protection of personal data to improve the quality of this area. We will try to explain briefly the reasons why we support this report, and we see that by submitting this annual report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Agency, wants to clearly formulate its determination to improve this area. The report in an overall manner and through an acceptable structure shows the obligations, the problems the agency encountered during 2007. In doing so, it is recognised as a surveillance entity and a partner in the protection of privacy not only from state and county bodies and institutions but also from media, unions, trade chains and other legal entities, but also from citizens themselves. They are very interesting queries that the agency has received, and related to various issues, data collection, collection, delivery, publication, data exports from the Republic of Croatia to other countries, the use of video surveillance in public places, blacklists in banks, officials for municipal and similar fees, salaries by local officials, the use of citizens' home numbers as well as a number of other data. In addition, the public praises the agency's work via info phone, as it also wants to get as close as possible to users of services especially to citizens. This opportunity would point to, for example, data protection in the health care system, which can be a highly sensitive area. The development of information and communication technology in medicine and healthcare creates assumptions for faster and simpler access to the data of their patients. Among other things, it means different registers, patient diseases. How well it can carry with it easy access to data, so it can also result in unwanted phenomena especially if information reaches someone who wants to abuse them and thus harms an individual, family or community as a whole. In particular, we would like to point to the right of the child to privacy, we mean the occasion of kindergarten children and children of primary schools. In this regard, we recommend greater engagement, i.e. the cooperation of the competent ministry and the Personal Data Protection Agency, and we appeal to support media that would all be in the service of education of kindergarten and school representatives and parents and thus warn of sources of manipulation of unwitting individuals who can harm children's privacy rights. In this way, the abuses that exist in the publication of children's personal data on websites available to an unlimited number of users will be reduced. Generally speaking, the data protection culture requires clear definitions and behaviour of the persons to whom this data is available. Given that a large part of the staff from the body of the state administration and legal persons during their professional work of happiness with a number of very sensitive data, it is necessary to define the rules of their behaviour and their relationship to data and information. These rules must be clear, available to the public and serve as a guide in the behavior of professionals. We hope that the agency will also have an impact on raising citizens' awareness in the coming period, increasing the responsibility of the debtors in the protection and application of privacy, increasing information security, more appropriate spatial conditions, education of professional staff and implementation of international standards. The HSS supports the government's and relevant bodies' efforts to protect personal data from possible abuses. In doing so, I would like to commend and support other participants in the chain who care about increasing the protection of personal data from possible abuse. To end our debate, we will say that the report gives us hope that in the near future we can expect an even better situation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20757	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20758	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. If I am not mistaken, in neighbouring Slovenia, the work of our agency is performed by a person who has a function called the Commissioner for the Protection of Personal Data. And when they find out what you have seen in your report, illegal data collection, especially when it comes to the body of the state government or institutions with public authority, then in Slovenian politics, Parliament is made especially in government, panic. And never anyone who was subject to the processing of commissioners remained on duty, at their post after being visited by the Commissioner for the Protection of Personal Data. This agency is acting semi-legal, because this is visible by the number of citizens addressing you in requests to interpret aid or advice, because it is simply amazing that 26 employees with this structure of school preparation throughout the year have processed imagine 500 items, and perhaps because in some cases you have given 2, 3 and 4 different opinions, interpretations, regulations and even political considerations. That is why I am not pleased with you as an institution that is accountable to Parliament for your debate, I see that it is not only in that part of the supervision, control and repression, but that you influence advisoryly and educationally and on the bodies of the authorities, citizens, so as few misunderstandings as possible. And that part of the job obviously wasn't devoted enough, and I'm going to try to prove it in this finding. But first, it is really incorrect that you found in the report that last year you issued an opinion at the request of the Ministry of the Family that the Defence Registry could not be published because you did not betray it, you issued it only this year. Your opinion last year is completely different. And so I'd like to ask you to withdraw that sentence from the report, and you can enter it when you're going to file a report for this year. But what's interesting is that during this case, you didn't notice that if the Ministry or the Fund collected data on the unique number of citizens for that register, that it had acted beyond the laws and regulations. And that regulation for the establishment of the register does not provide for the collection of a single number of citizens, and it is reportedly collected and allegedly that this was the only reason why the register could not be published. The Erste Fund case is next. Who he is, why and how he used that data doesn't matter at all. Whether it was abuse doesn't matter. The important thing is that for three years, the contract between them and the ministry had no safeguard clause without the data being protected. They're three years old. And that's what Djakic didn't understand when his colleague Beus said, that the ministry's failure was that he gave a bad contract, poor protection, and thus gave the possibility of abuse, and no one determined that he was there. And that's a hell of a warning because it's half a million citizens of this country. Secondly, one union asked for an interpretation. The employer hired private detectives to follow up on sick workers and gave personal data to the workers you estimated to be against the law. In order to prevent and educate, it would be good for such opinions, views, interpretations, for the second time both to deliver to the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Employers in order to educationally and advisoryly act on their members as such cases. And there's likely to be a new private detective shop that's going to be called tracking down workers on sick leave, tracking the workers on a roll, tracking the workers on vacation. I'm just showing you what condition we are in, but so it's not happening anymore because this is terrible. Do detectives follow you when they go to the bathroom, I don't know. Furthermore, when you reached the body of the state authority, 16, you find, be careful now, that there are extraordinary situations where everything is in accordance with the law in terms of security so that there are incomplete situations both with inadequate conditions where there are a number of acts, regulations, techniques and resources missing. The Offices of State Administrations by County lack complete or no written rules, regulations, guidelines, instructions, procedures for the implementation of security measures. Which county offices, where and what measures were taken to... Remove? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we need, not the general guy's findings. There's an office where it's not there, there's state bodies where it's there or it's not there. Well, for God's sake, you didn't form that agency yesterday. You've got experts, you've got 26 people, and now you're hiding the essence of the information that those in Croatia who don't respect the law, who haven't set up, brought the acts, make sure he's missing the cryptoprotection, he'd still understand there's no money, he's saving. But there are no acts, no signatures, no internal design order so that those who own these data know how to act and how wrong conduct could be sanctioned. Because as soon as there's no regulations, there's no sanctions. No one broke anything. So I'd like to ask you to give accurate reports in the future. The full name, the name of the person responsible in the body of the authority or with public authority, where you have established illegal practices. In addition, the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 21, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, I quote: "... that no full establishment and delivery of records in personal data collections have yet been fully established." The failure is, in fact, the worst situation from the ministry you're stating. And what's done, done? Is that what you're finding removed, or is it still the situation today? This was 2007, not this year. And then you cross, and I quote, "...to local administration and self-government." Be kind, you can explain to me what local administration in Croatia is, what you mean. There's no local administration. There is local, local and regional self-government and state administration. And there are no local administrations, because yet no chemist or physicist has invented wooden iron. So I would ask you to use future terms that are consistent with the Constitution and the laws of this country, because Croatia does not really have a local administration. And you've been watching her and controlling her even. A little weird. The health care and welfare sector. You gave an important warning. The primary health care system and the new information system have been assessed very well, but at the level of hospital data, the situation is terrible. There's practically no system. You're writing that you've initiated a conversation with the minister. This was of great importance in 2007 because hospitals, a large part of the hospitals, have indeed a large amount of personal data. And if the state of the health care system, so to be more precise, is still as you stated in the report today, then this is a serious topic of debate in this House. Maybe in your closing statement you can say something about it, I'd appreciate it. Another case. The second union warned you that the employer provided photos with personal data on the glass panels, so that every tourist accidentally saw a photo of the employees, not just his personal data. So again, it is a matter of dealing with the employer's extreme insolence toward his employees. And it repeats itself. I only took two cases like that. It repeats itself because in public you act in a semi-legal way and you run away from the public, or you react only when asked, not proactively, because there are no sanctions and because you do not talk about it publicly. Your public word, your public message, your public criticism, but also advice and recommendation is a function, if you do as much as possible, your reports will be as brief as possible and this debate will be as brief as possible and no one will object to you for 26 employees then. In that part of the job, you have to make the most of the effort and you probably don't need to travel away, not to Brussels, not to Paris, not to Madrid. Go to Ljubljana to pick up their experiences and see why there is a topic of protection of personal data at great value and why there is indeed a Commissioner for the Protection of Personal Data Malta not, so everyone is afraid. And why their report in the Slovenian Parliament is rank as discussing the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20759	Thank you. Replica. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20760	Dear Mr. Commissioner Lesar, you stated that, in the defence register, it is reportedly the citizens' home number, and that context I would read a sentence in the statement by Ms. Deputy Prime Minister Kosor, which I quote: "The Kosor pointed out that the government has no reason not to publish the register, but that in this context it was prevented by several laws, especially the one about JMBG, which changed Racan's government and the information about the JMBG listed in the register, which it declared secret." So it turns out that the government itself broke the Privacy Act by collecting that information in the register. And since we passed the I.D. Act, there are no more legal obstacles to this publication register.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20761	Replication response. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20762	Dear colleague... /The speaker turned off, then turned on./...someone's bored so he's playing. Nothing, okay. I'm sorry. So I noticed this statement but some other similar statements when they called for the fact that citizens' birth numbers should not be published. However, by looking at both the law and the regulation in the register, there is no home number in the component of the records. And now I'm asking if the agency had this case in July 16th of July 2007 and wrote that there was only no obligation to publish that register, and not that it should not be published, how it failed to claim that the collected data were past the laws and regulations and lay down sanctions against it. Maybe it's not too late, Mr. Director. Make sure it's collected in the register and JMBG. If it's illegal then, order them to delete it. If not, let the public know. Because no one else wants to tell us. If you won't solve it, then who will? Then the agency doesn't need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20763	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20764	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Director, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, as a parliamentary representative, but also as a citizen, I protest what is happening to our citizens, and based on all of the above-mentioned Data Protection Act, which the citizens were happy to welcome by now, far away in 2003, at the 6th month. That someone would protect them. That someone would be careful to read their data. But what did it turn into? It's as if the government is ordering, and even through this agency, your data, our property. Still asking the question is, did they even sell? There are big objections coming. Citizens just can't figure out what's happening to them. Look at the portals, what do they all meet? Who's got all their data? The Consum has their data, so that's what this report says. The Ministry of Science is asking the students for JMBG. Look at the principal under this sicko, "Payo Duck, you've discovered the data." These are serious objections as to how human rights are violated and who violates human rights. Almost all ministries have violated human rights. But that results in a good part from the absolute misunderstanding of this law. What's private and what's public? And sometimes on purpose you don't want to understand that difference. So what really needs to become and remain protected, which is what the state collects under the law, personal data about its citizens comes out. It is a frantic fact that "Croatian Postes" gave the information "Conzum" on the citizens' home number. There are other examples as many as you want. And that state seems powerless to some financial powers. Whether they are large companies dealing with trade, distribution or financial institutions. A citizen can hardly do anything without giving not only his ID card, but every almost citizen must have one piece of paper where he wrote down his unique home number of citizens. And nothing to anyone. But on the other hand, it's jealous of the data that must be made public by law, and that's all the information available to the state fiscus, or by its work, where individual users draw common funds. It's got to be public data... how the government works, or how jealous it is. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] That's where the big opinions are written. So here is the register of Croatian defenders that the agency has given its opinion that according to the existing rules, the register of Croatian defenders cannot be published under the existing law. By the way, when the law was changed, when we asked as a SDP club and an amendment to change the law and to say it was rejected by the government. How about we remind ourselves a little of what the provision of Article 7. The law on the protection of personal data. So she's happy to be quoted here when the state wants to hide something and she doesn't want it to get out in public. Such knowledge is because its users in this register are in good faith demanding it. This is primarily required by citizens, then the provision of Article 7 is often cited without the consent of the data subject should not be given or may only be given in certain cases. So you can see exactly what the provision of Article 7 of the later paragraphs says, that although there is no consent of respondents data can be given and publicly published when it comes first to the data for which the collections are set up in the public interest execution. So, here in Croatia, there is still no meaning and no public interest is known, and you run public affairs. So what makes this collection run if not in the public interest, especially when it has common resources. The law continues to say either in the exercise of public authority by the Head of the personal data collection. Therefore, there is no understanding of the public interest. Public interest obviously becomes an interest in a particular political option in the authorities that then has this information as it pleases it. It's very dangerous. That's the data that belongs first of all, about the citizens, that's your data, but they belong to the citizens. They must not be manipulated or abused but used very cautiously in a way as well as in the sense of the law and express the provisions of this law on this matter, saying that such personal data must be protected against citizens but that it is very public when it is of public interest and at the disposal of our common public interest. But here it looks like the pots got mixed up, and then the fact that it has to be kept private as a snake's legs and what must be personal data becomes public. Such a problem is with our secret services, so it's even less a miracle that this is also happening with the Agency's work on the protection of personal data. And that's how many people you have at the agency, Mr. Principal. If so many people were in the USKOK for sure that we would have fewer problems with the fundamental problem of this country, which is why we are behind in the accession of the European Union. So, here I think the basic problem is that, first of all, every government understands what public interest is, that the public interest is, I'm going to repeat, every available public good. There's no collection that can preserve such a thing, it's not a secret. These aren't some donations that some official is hiding so the public wouldn't know what a good donor he is. Hide that, but those collections that keep track of how many countries she's given it to can't be a secret. And please quote here what is the provision of the law, any law that prevents it. Here, I am precisely because of the confusion of these things, the fundamental principle of not protecting the public interest, not protecting the personal data of the citizens, I am not voting for this annual report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20765	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20766	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Director. Here, when we talk about such an important area of human rights, I must admit that I am just like my colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, a little dissatisfied. We passed that law in 2003. I have a feeling that in Croatia there is no awareness of the importance of the protection of personal data or we don't promote it enough among people and people feel problems every day, I don't know very few citizens who haven't met for once in their life with the theft of personal data. Technology has progressed, on the Internet more or less we all do business and there is not one person who has not received a certain one in life, now I will use an English word spin and that means you get an unwanted email on your personal email to buy something. And that's why I think we need to develop that consciousness, but the agency has to do a little better work. A colleague before me said that 26 agency employees are not small numbers. These are really capacities that you can do more surveillance, that you can do more in this area. When we talk about this awareness of Croatian citizens whether or not I can contact someone, I also think that the agency is not visible enough and that citizens simply do not know that they can seek protection in cases where their personal data is compromised tells us that we have only 124 irregular cases. I mean, it's really one very small number and 124 items all year round, 26 employees, I think there's room for the agency to get a little more engaged and sometimes self-initiative. As for the supervision of the state administration, what goes by law 528 of the surveillance order, to carry out expert supervision, I think the number that's O.K.... And I think that in all the ministries, as far as we can see reports, there are certain shortcomings and there are certain things that we can improve to make this area as efficient as possible. I would just like to say a few examples, I find this information really astounding that Croatian mail means the company owned by the state has entrusted personal data to a private company. I mean, it's inadmissible, and I really don't know if or who had any sanctions about that in a state-owned company. In a company that should promote the most transparent way of implementing the laws this House has passed. I don't think we had any sanctions here, maybe someone's got their shoulders down or someone explained it, so that's what business is. I don't think such a business should be that we in areas that are so important have no exceptions and be even more rigorous towards those over whom we have direct supervision, which is certainly a state-owned company. What I would like to point out, let's say a positive example of the Ministry of Health or primary health care where it was established for all Croatian citizens a unique database, where only their personal physician can come up with that information from which they are being treated, what is their health condition, etc. But there are certain areas where it's almost impossible to do. Here, I will say that every citizen of Croatia is covered in healthcare. Let's just say in the polling area, it's simply not possible to do that. We've had a problem uniting the voters' lists inside the state administration's office for a very long time. There is no unique list of the networked Croatian voters where it would be seen if someone was more often seduced if he moved around Croatia than it was made from county to county and separately for the city of Zagreb. So here's an example of a significant example that one such database can be done correctly, so all citizens are covered, but it seems when it comes to Croatian voters, when someone doesn't respond to it to be done, it's almost impossible for many years. So, I'd like to see your surveillance on this area next year in the report, because you've only touched it here that you've had control but there's no information whatsoever as to what the voter lists are like today in Croatia. What I think is particularly necessary and this is to make surveillance more rigorous in areas where the state has powers, i.e. where there are these databases such as the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance where we've had examples, in the past, here's an example of Mr Kirin who, after becoming a minister, has been unauthorized into his data, would be good at some way to protect the data, personally within the state administration at some higher level that it is almost impossible to do so. What we look at just a little bit when we look at this report doesn't make sense. It is done in the financial sector of analysis, as far as I've seen in Leasing houses and some other houses dealing with financial services, but in those where it covers most of the Croatian citizens, I think, few people, take cars to Leasing, take them on loans. I don't know why there are no reports where all Croatian banks are covered and whether or not the law is respected, whether the records are kept in accordance with the law, and especially if we know that all Croatian citizens are using, at least through the current account, the use of Croatian banks' services. So that part in this report is missing, because it really includes what the most Croatian citizens, the most Croatian citizens of whom have an interest. Finally, I was deformed by this information, and here I have heard it for the first time, and I read it in this report, but now that my colleague Franić has made this information clear that the secretary of defense has explained the inability to publish public information, how many defenders there are, and on the other hand, that the laws have made it impossible for her to compromise that information in a way that she gave it from the central one, so this state registry outside the CD and that it was possible to get that information without you being authorized to do so. That is, there is even a contract where a private company and the ministry have defined it in this way. This is indeed one bad thing, and on the other hand it shows that we were willing to settle it legally and show the real Croatian public how many defenders there are. In the end, I would like to say that, as with all Croatian citizens, my personal data belongs only to me and I do not want anyone to have them and to have anyone with them unless I have given them. Whether it's in terms of trade, whether it's in the sense of any further, any further available to them, and I think that's what Croatian citizens expect of us. I expect this agency to be more active in the following year and I expect it to come out in some way, someone said it well from illegal, to be more aggressive, to show Croatian citizens that this law that we passed in 2003 and that they can be sure that their data will not be unauthorized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20767	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20768	My colleague, you have rightly apostrophe of this great problem why we do not have the data and this unique data about voters, because from choice to election, the voters are getting smaller and the inhabitants of Croatia are getting smaller every year and the voters are increasing. So just a little while longer, another election and voters will be more in Croatia than we have residents, it is one big problem, but of course the Agency has not taken up the grip, however, we are getting indications for local elections are one collection of voters' data and for the state others. Which is one big absurd if it would have happened in the first place. You especially apostrophe and the need for citizens to trust, they had to first and then, and when they trusted the state with great confidence, who should then take care of these data rather than give them anywhere, or protect them from such abuses. But on the other hand, we have bizarre situations that the MUP, precisely because it does not understand the situation, must address the agency in order to give normal data, which has always been the way it has always been working with neighbouring countries, and that is more so when we have concluded various international conventions on the cooperation of our police regular forces. And so the MUP where it must act quickly in order to take a certain official action, he must, he must, asking the agency whether it has the right to give the neighbouring state of Bosnia and Herzegovina certain data, and only data on the civil status of two persons, since these must take urgent official action. Is that how we're gonna fight cross-border crime?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20769	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20770	Thank you very much. Here I am responsibly saying that what you said and should not be surprised local elections will come, it is not possible to determine whether one person is registered in several places in Croatia because the central register of voters is not networked and does not exist. For what? I guess only those who answer for it in the Central State Administration Office know that. And I'd like to get information from this agency next year as well, how, what collection of personal data exists on the voter lists and how is it managed and how could be managed better? So I think it's clear to everyone why there's no will to get rid of it, but I'll let the Croatian citizens figure it out for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20771	And Mr. Zdenko Franic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20772	Dear fellow Maras that indeed the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has caught the government with its hands in a pot of cookies but it is clear why it has not responded, namely, not to bite the hand that feeds you. They observed it but so softly that no sanctions or votes were released in public until this debate. I also hope that the agency will be more aggressively approaching the issues of the electoral lists because, for example, in Trešnjevci the north which has 60 thousand people voted in previous parliamentary elections 60 thousand people, which means that the statistical response was 100% and also exceeded including newborns and school children, preschool children and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20773	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20774	I've been looking for the State Office to see if there's going to be any, any surveillance reports, anything. There isn't. Just that there's been surveillance, but there's nothing in there. I honestly think that in this example, but also in the case of a state-owned company, the state must show that it wants to enforce the laws as it has adopted them. I don't think that's the case so far, and I think there'd be a lot more complaints about the citizens, because now the citizens think if we complain, nothing will happen anyway. What are we going to complain about? And that's why 124 is just inappropriately slow. This rest goes on official duty. Only 124 slows all year round. It is indeed a data that says that citizens do not believe that this law is being implemented and that it will be implemented in the sense in which we have brought it. And that's why I think it is, and I'd like to invite the agency gentlemen to step out of the illegals. You Croatian citizens feel like you don't exist at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20775	And Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20776	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, I fully agree with the last line of exposure of my colleague Maras, who said that his personal data as a citizen belongs only to him. This is in complete contrast with the part of the exhibition of him and similar members of the party to whom he belongs, where they ask that information on Croatian defenders be made public and that everyone has the right to see them. So ordinary citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to protect their data. We Croatian defenders have no right to our privacy. For what? Why should Croatian defenders not, in your opinion, keep at least that minimum of dignity contained in the privacy of the data? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20777	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20778	Dear colleague Huška, I would like to warn you that it is personal and what my name is and what my name is and where I live and so on. And yet I agree that someone knows that. My data belongs to me if I agree with it. If the laws of this country are defined so that they are not publicly available and this is the case. I'm telling the data on what my birth number is, which is my credit card, it belongs to me if I don't want to give it to someone. In case we pass a law by which my birth number will be publicly available, I will gladly publish it. What we have here from the SDP Club of Representatives said if there is a problem for Croatian citizens to find out who and how many Croatian defenders, so we change that law and make it that way. I am convinced that we would also get support among Croatian defenders because a lot of Croatian defenders know that this figure is not the number you're talking about, which the ministry is talking about but that it is much, much smaller. And many times Croatian defenders joke that we had so many soldiers in the war where, who knows what it would look like together. But unfortunately, there should be a will to finally get rid of the issue. That Croatian defenders who really deserve to be respected are right, in the right way to admit that those who acquired that status just because they had a relationship, which they had the opportunity somewhere to register that status and take it away. But we can't do that unless we have a public record of who the Croatian defender really was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20779	Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20780	Honored Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, colleagues and fellow MPs. So as I said, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data caught the government stealing cookies but didn't have the strength to say it publicly, to warn the government. To warn the public that it was done and to give some of your guidance what to do that not to repeat it. So she caught the government manipulating the citizens' home number. However, when it comes to this report, you have shown positive examples in terms of the number of citizens of origin. For example, in the Trade Court, it ceased the practice of publishing MBG and so on. It is interesting, however, that I am now for an experiment while this debate took place trying to find the birth numbers of our vice presidents who are currently changing and here on the web can also find Mr. Shex's home number and Mr. Jarnjak's home number. They are publicly available and they are available on the websites of once-respectable, and today a minor daily list that has turned into a party's right orientation. Of course, I don't want to mention those birth numbers at all, but I wonder if, say, Mr. Shex, after New Year's Eve, continues the celebration immediately on his birthday, etc. So, I don't even know if I've committed such a misdemeanor since here on my computer I have the parent numbers of all almost most of it here is a representative. But since I have a parent, this immunity of a parliamentary representative, I hope I'm not. Regarding the example that my colleague Richermberger mentioned, I had a similar example, because I went to do a job in a bank with a yellow logo trying to pay money here in Zagreb to an account located in a sister's bank outside the Republic of Croatia and a kind clerk told me that he couldn't do it without having my birth number. What I said was that I don't have a home number with me because I have a new ID, I have a new driver's license, and I don't carry with me documents that have a home number that he said he couldn't make that transaction. And I asked him to tell me if it was the bank's guideline or maybe it was the Croatian National Bank's guide, which he brought me a list that says that the bank and the bank are offering a range of benefits from banking and non-banking products and in order to enable you to use these products we need your consent to use personal data as well as data on your business on which I said that I am not a client of that bank at all, but I have come to do a job on payment traffic. And as much as this document of theirs says, we note that you are not obliged to give the requested consent. But he didn't want me or couldn't. He said that software doesn't work like that without JMBG and then I said well, here I'll write to you JMBG what I did on this list, and he asked me to paraphrase here what I refused and, yes, after the job I did and took this list as interesting data. I ask the question, did the Republic of Croatia allow foreign banks of payment services for which they receive a fat commission and also to terrorize citizens by searching for data that are not really needed. Moreover, this morning, I also routinely did one job in another bank, on which an extremely kind official asked me if I would like to participate in a telephone survey, because my opinion as a client is particularly important to them. I said why not, go ahead. And he asked me again for JMBG to put me in some form. So I said listen, but I volunteer to do you a favor, you're still asking me JMBG. Yeah, when we do business like that. Well, you could've done a different job. You could have taken the number from your ID or something, but no, or he could have given his number, yes. However, it really crosses all levels of good taste to look for one piece of information that this High House has abolished. I'm not saying whether or not it was a smart decision, but the fact is that, the emphasis on MBG has been lifted and that more citizens should not be terrorized especially since they have all the new documents including in the hostels. I also called the Personal Data Protection Agency and an extremely friendly, kind voice really told me that it was an injury and that voice sent me, that person on the other side of the phone wire, told me what it was to do if I wanted to complain, sue, and from that point of view, it really seemed to me that the agency was doing well and positively. However, my complaint is that the telephone line is only open 2 hours between 10 9 and 12 and I think it should be far, far longer at the disposition of citizens. As far as the report is concerned, it is also interesting from the point of view that unlike many others, and even this previous one we have discussed this report ends with some conclusions, and also elements only criticises that all the objectives and tasks of the agency are not fully achieved, such as raising citizens' awareness and increasing the responsibility of the debtors in the protection and application of privacy and information security. The fact is that information security is now of priority in international business. There are huge damages caused by the theft of personal data, and I really welcome these initiatives from the agency, and I will be happy to vote in favour of the report next year when you include these components in it and when you come out of illegal spectacularly. If you need more funding, we SDP deputies will try to at least try to amend the budget to give you more funds if you promise us that you will work harder, more aggressively to protect all kinds of citizens and their personal data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20781	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. It's Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20782	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, a colleague in my opinion incorrectly states that there is a daily newspaper with us, says a party note of minor content. The party note, I understand what it should be, but the minor content probably minorly grands the character and the work of the SDP probably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20783	Thank you. We have two replicas. First, he's a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20784	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you were talking about the case when the agency caught some authority with their hand in the jam, but I remind you what it looks like when a private agency grabs a hand in a jam. I quote: "Determined trading by paying an account with a credit card except through a POS device that is intended for payment is also passing through a cash register reader, thus creating an information system, a collection of personal data on customers. Can you imagine, so we don't know which merchants did it because the agency doesn't want to tell us, but if it wasn't an ideal position for the agency to advise citizens to be careful about the way the trader behaves so the agency says which traders are doing this so that citizens can protect their own interests. And in the end, I ask if anyone is being punished for it? Is someone reported and punished by these merchants who do not want to be mentioned here, which is illegally using citizens' credit cards to create a database. What data are you given to take off your credit card? Are you aware of that? There's also the account number inside. Private, even foreign-owned trade chains create a database of citizens of the Republic of Croatia with giro numbers and no one is punished. And we can't know who it is. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20785	Thank you. We've got another replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20786	Thank you very much. I only wanted one sentence to be linked. As far as trade is concerned, I think the report is not clear enough. Certain companies are listed here and have identified certain irregularities. I don't believe that all these irregularities have been identified. I don't think for clarity's sake maybe a more precise report would be bad. But what about illegal, so I think that in any case violations you have to react, I'm not going to say just like the SCIENCE when it's doing the Index affair, but you have to let the Croatian citizens know who's doing what. You must not hide, tell clearly who violates these laws that we have passed, which concern fundamental human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20787	Thank you. We're going with an individual debate and we're going to end this topic. Honorable representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20788	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director of the State Agency, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Very short. They say there's justice, there's God. You know, when you did everything last Thursday to discuss the HNS club's proposal to remove one obstacle so that you could publish a register of Croatian defenders, one legal obstacle, then you forced the debate ten to seven to nine and fifteen, and the fact is that on the second day in the paper I couldn't read a single word about that debate and the fact is that I heard little bit in the evening news on Croatian Radio. On TV, as far as I was able to track, I couldn't see anything. The goal was achieved, but in the short term because now the debate is actually the same, only in another agenda point. It would be good if you prepared yourself a little bit better next time and somehow put those two points together so that you still manage to hide from the public everything you think you need to hide. And don't hide because the time of truth is coming more and more because we are, and you're saying yourself you're more democratic society. What I want to say very briefly about this report, which unfortunately for the same reasons as Mr Beus, Mr Lesar, Mrs Antičević-Marinović and others, because the report is inconclusive, contradictory, in certain parts untrue, I cannot, of course, vote for it. But I'm only going to look back on the quote on page 11 of this paragraph where it's about the next one. At the request of the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, as well as several journalists and other agencies, the opinion was that according to existing rules, the register of Croatian defenders cannot be published. The director of the agency explained with more than one statement that position, among other things, was published on the Agency’s website. So, Mr. Director, you and your agency, or agency, it's not yours, it's a state agency, it's our agency that you follow direct instructions obviously Mrs. Kosor who I'm sorry isn't here, but she should be, because it's clearly about everything she's done that a hundred times in public has repeated that just because legal obstacles exist, she hasn't once defined, she used to say that it's the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, she used to say that it's the Defence Register, she used to say something else that can't be published. So please, Mr. Lacko, and you help remove legal and other legal obstacles, make such a text one and the other and the third that you need to finally publish that register. If you need help, I'll help you anyway. I know something about it. But if you're not going to do it eventually, then you'll get it before the Parliament again, but trust me, this time, a very serious proposal to remove any possible suspicions that have been raised in any regulation, and that the defence registry may be published. But I'm just reminding you of one fact. Gentlemen and ladies of the agency, don't you find it odd that in 2003 there were 407,000 defenders, and today there are about 500 thousand. It's strange to me, but at least I'd explore it, I'd look at where the causes are, so I'd try to do something, and he said well at the last debate, now I have to say it here when it's not, to say so recorded in public for the reasons that I've told a representative of the HNS that you're really brave all the together that you're in when you're hiding it, so when one day it comes out, it'll probably show up. I still said that last time, I doubt that's the case. So one part of the defense attorney doesn't deserve defense status. But in order for that my suspicion to be, say, the suspicions of all other journalists etc. Parts of the public removed, give it away in a way that publishes that defence register. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20789	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote and two replicas. The first is the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct Mr. Shprem's incorrect allegations that the information about Croatian defenders is hiding. The information on Croatian defenders is not hidden. All Croatian defenders are regularly registered at the Ministry of Defence, Family and Intergenerational Solidarity. Thank you. [[Intruder: And those who are not.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20791	Please don't throw it out of the bench. Got the bute word and the thighs talking. We have replicas of two. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20792	Well, you've said well, Comrade Shreem. That Mrs. Kosor first said that she would publish those data, but that she was being held back by the Defense Act. So we wrote an amendment to this amended law, which in the meantime changed on other grounds, so the government refused the amendment. So what and who do those who have rights serve and do not belong to them? And what good does that power have to do with it? Are they voters? Are they voters? What's that? And there's no worse offense to defenders than to give those rights that belong only to defenders, to those who are not. And you, Mr. Director, you give an illegal opinion because that opinion is not based on the law, because, in fact, the provision of Article 7 of that sentence that I quoted you to you, it is now making a commitment to the public interest and that these data must be public. So it shouldn't have changed the law. But to be even more transparent, that the laws don't look like laws that are interpreted both linguistically and meaningfully than to be really a picture book, we also wrote such an amendment, literally drawn and the government refused. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20793	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20794	Dear fellow Prime Minister, you are inviting the agency and its director to help remove legal obstacles if there are any to publish the register. I think, Mr. Shream, that you significantly overestimate the capacity and quality of this agency no matter what 26 employees have, which has a total of less than a thousand cases, so when you share it with 200 working days and 26 people then you see actually how nice it is to work in an agency that works like that and gives such opinions that clearly do not commit anyone but only us in the Parliament. It is evident from this report that when the Agency finds that the regulation as such has been broken. In the case of the Ministry of the Family and Ersta Invest, nothing happens to anyone but even the HVIDRA that requested it, this surveillance responds, or their request is rejected as unfounded, and it is evident from the plane that, for three years, some other than the regulations could have used and misused those data, and that someone is all employees of that company. And secondly, if it is already seen in public, the minister said in person that she had entered into the registry the legal number of defenders, and nowhere does it say that it should be done, so who asked the Minister of Health for Heroic Health in what way she intended to break the laws, which is her responsibility. Well, the agency is not able to establish that responsibility obviously, because in all of this material you do not have one single piece of explicitly defined and located responsibility for the situation in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20795	Replication response, distinguished representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20796	Dear fellow Beus, I must tell you that this sarcastic, replica you gave me, at least the first part, I must say that the laws, or legal texts, amendments and additions are being prepared by the bodies in charge and for the implementation of these laws. That's why I said that and I was aware that Mr. Lacko and in that first response to the search for the Ministry of Family and intergenerational solidarity to shorten the name, when he reacted well, so he obviously well mastered matter and its associates, just so should continue. So remove all those obstacles that exist on the road legally, so that the defence register can be published in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20797	Thank you. And we have a final debate individually, a distinguished representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I came forward for this debate after my colleague Richembergh spoke on behalf of the HNS club. And if exactly what counterpart Richembergh said, and there's no reason to doubt that's true because it's backed by quotes and arguments, so it's hard to break, then we have a problem and it's not a little problem. This Regulation shall enter The law on the protection of personal data says: "In carrying out the tasks established by law, the Agency is independent and corresponds to the Croatian Parliament." Apparently, the agency isn't on its own. The agency is acting on the government's orders of just one ministry, namely the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. That's proven. In 2007, you gave one opinion that you believe the ministry has no obligation to publish the defence register, so it is not legal, that it has a legal obstacle but simply has no obligation, but if it wants to publish the defence register, you gave that opinion. And then there was Minister Kosor's intervention, which is trying to get out of that obligation, and you change your mind and you give a different opinion. I don't know why Minister Kosor intervened in this way, why it didn't match your original opinion, and I'm even less clear to why you, as head of the agency that must act on your own, have succumbed to that pressure. You see, compared to the publication of this Defense Register, that relationship is a double. Those who think they belong in that register, who are proud of being defenders, have no objection to the publication of the register, though. Dugi, who are afraid to publish the register, and I guess they're afraid because they're afraid that their name will be found there, and they know that they and everyone around them have never been defenders and that they've gained that status by who knows how and in what way, and of course the status is not just status. He brings some rights and some privileges. In that conflict between those who are proud to be defenders, who wants the register to be published and those who hide, who try to escape from it, you side with these others, at the will of the ministry. Now, look, this procedure of yours is very dangerous because if the agency, such an important agency you run, is not independent of the government, and your actions show that it is not independent but follows the government's orders and in such a relatively benign case as the publication of the defence registry, I wonder how you're going to act in another case. The government is an executive government. She has a repressive apparatus and she can turn it against the citizens. How can I trust you to protect their interests if the repressive apparatus abuses their personal data, and then order a positive opinion from you. And you give it, as you gave it in this case. In law, in that Article 28. The law on the protection of personal data therefore states that the Agency is independent in the conduct of the tasks established by law and that it corresponds to the Croatian Parliament. And this second part of that provision is clearly not your intention to meet. Namely, it has been proven that you have entered one forgeries in this report. We heard what opinion you gave in 2007, and in the report on work right for that year, you actually get one opinion from 2008. That's how you fake it. You are trying to deceive the Croatian Parliament, the only body you are responsible for your work. The Parliament has chosen you, but you must act not in the interest of the majority in this House, you must act in the interest of the public, you must act in the interest of the citizens. Because citizens not only expect it from you, they have the right to your protection. So far, they thought they had protection, and today after this debate, unfortunately, they have to find out they don't have that protection, that they can't trust you. They are exposed to the mercy of the government. She can obviously do whatever she wants with their data, and that's why you're giving her an alibi. You're covering for her. And then you fake that cover in the report and then you come before the Croatian Parliament you answer to. This report for all of this is not only not to be accepted but not to be accepted. It must not be accepted, and responsibility for your actions should be put in motion before this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20799	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate. Does the representative want to further explain the final word? Yeah. Dear Franjo Lacko, Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20800	Respect, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Normally, I'm obliged to answer a little bit, so I explain some, otherwise I thank everyone whether anyone looked positively at the report or the criticism. I can even say that actually part of the criticism is totally acceptable. I wish we had more surveillance, if we had more action, if we were more in the media. So that's the part I have to say that you're absolutely right. I've tried when it comes to the number of people where you've mentioned it and that's why I just think the book means for you to make, and I was in a hurry like that, dragging that number of people away means... to the size of the earth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You will now see how many, whether there are too many people here considering the tasks and obligations the agency has. So, Macedonia, which is 17, all Baltic, any Baltic country: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, each of them, you know their size, has more. And so I don't keep counting. Here, I'd go now, I'd end up registering and that's what you touched most, but before then, I'd be able to do something else so I wouldn't answer every single one of them's registers. Here, when it comes to the citizens' home number, I am aware that since 2002, I have no doubt at all of my good intentions, so because it was already trying to protect privacy, but all the bases and all the software, etc., all the databases were based on that number. And from then on to today, probably now this personal identification number will help 0 to mean it is eliminated in the most part, but mostly there are problems so there were and certainly this agency is not able to eliminate it because simply that is, there are certain problems and legal gaps. I'd like a rulebook, register, and I'd leave it as last and all. Now, let's just say, Mr. Beus' honourable representative said that we made a political comment, no, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't. We only looked back on it means that it was simply misread that we were with the 2007 opinion, that it could be read out of it means publication, which is not true. It's just that we've come to terms with it. When it comes to home numbers in banks as well as some others. Here I said, so there are some problems. It seems that the banks to start with, so they were looking for that number and after our intervention they were looking for and a few of you MPs pointed out, personal examples, so the code requested they were automatically looking for consent. It wasn't like before. It's a request for permission. What can we do if someone has given consent? He wants to do business with the bank, there are certain identity thefts. You know that there have been cases that someone has raised 100,000 kunas, they will present themselves as another man, etc. I just don't think we have any other solutions right now, but the one who wants to do business with the bank means it's normal with the privilege, so if he wants to do it later, he'll give it. But if he doesn't want to, we can't force the bank or have the instruments to enter into some civil couple relationship, meaning giving credit and anything, means without that man's consent. Dear representative Mr. Lesar mentioned Slovenia. So the example of Slovenia is quite difficult to compare, because there is also a Commissioner for the Protection of Personal Data and a Commissioner for the Rights of Access to Information. So there are only a few countries in Slovenia, so some of it Hungary, Finland means these examples are quite in Europe means to us, in fact at the present moment and we cannot accept them, because I say they have a completely different structure and organization, and otherwise we work well with Slovenia. And that was the first country where we went to see their experiences. When it comes to unions, we gave opinions and answers to unions as well as others. Now I accept that we will warn them and perhaps economic operators, or all of the Chamber of Commerce. And that's what we can do. That we can be confused somewhere is that if maybe in a sentence it was written and all the local administrations and self-government and regionals listed, it was in one sentence where that mistake could be stolen. Also when it comes to it. Likewise, some MPs spoke about the ownership of personal data. So each of us as an individual is really the owner of our own data. However, I would compare it if someone owned the property, if he could limit it too, somewhere there would be a right of duty over some agricultural land, somewhere there would be a restriction on construction, etc. So it's not absolutely our right that we could, therefore, deny that somewhere in the law, in order to enforce some law to take away our data, and neither are we as owners of that data always possible to publish. Is there anyone who works at USCOD who can publish their data? I think that's pretty clear. It's part of the register, for example. When it comes to it, because more MPs have pointed out it means sanctions. You see, this 2003 law was a good law for us. Efforts have been made. However, you notice that the law still has little perhaps underdeveloped provisions, and we are likely to be forced to because this was some sort of patching as some say changes and supplements. It will probably be necessary to pass a more detailed law. But I say as it is, in fact, adopted all the principles set out in the European Union Directive, all the essential principles. At the same time in that 108 convention, the law is good. But look, you just mentioned sanctions. This agency under the law has what sanctions at its disposal? So she basically can't give any sanctions directly, but she's running a mistrial, so she's running a trial there. And so far we have 30 of those convictions where those who have broken the law where they normally bear responsibility. Part of these demands has become obsolete and part of it is somewhere we've been rejected. So it's been found that the surveillance agency may not have established the facts properly. Since whoever the agency is new is created, it's a small age, so our courts are the same, it's just that the case law is being created, and normally we're going to see which and how it's going to go on. And it could be helpful for us to one day improve the law and make those sanctions color. We cannot fight some easily because Croatia is probably in violation of these data protection laws, of the violation of the Privacy Treaty, it is somewhere very similar to the members of the Union, especially Eastern and Central Europe. Therefore, there are violations. However, not to some extent, but we are very much in matters of banks, when it comes to some other institutions. That case of Konzum and the Croatian Post Office, so from Slovakia to Estonia, it does, too. I don't know now that I wouldn't really look back at some of these people where I said I really appreciate it, I'm going to have to do it, you're going to get a detailed view of the size of the country, and you're going to see the number of employees, employees. You will see that Croatia is working rationally here. I agree that part of us is experiencing that we're illegal, but you realize that this short deadline for the agency is to be set up. When we have to race somehow, I will not say in walking, but in racing, and some other laws when it comes to the protection of personal data, so agree with the Union, then normally that priority always had a Union. Furthermore, I would have to say now that some MPs were talking about the voter list. You see, that's what it's all about, I guess, according to the Law on Voters. The agency can always look back on what's written there in that law. Unfortunately, you see, one party has abused that list of voters. Because you see it serves only for one purpose, and always the law will say to which purpose someone serves only so that political parties can control that the choice is made at all, or that the choice is done according to the law at all, and that means that it is normal to control that there are no mistakes. This agency cannot have an impact on the use of these addresses for another purpose, which was to refer propaganda material to these addresses. And that was, I dropped it, I thought it wasn't worth it because it was over and so on. So that was exactly the HNS that was and proposed this rule. It only means he's from the one because their argument at first was that they used the phone book quickly the people who complained proved to us that they were not in the directory. So here's what we're gonna be able to do. I agree when you ask the agency to go there, to see but only what it says in the Law on Lists of Voters. She doesn't have anything to do. I would now really go to what was somehow the most around the register of Croatian defenders. What we are if it was written in the opinion that it doesn't have to, so it also includes if it's not a sign of equality but almost the same sign of equality, we used another term means that it can't. This agency can't be seen because it can't be said that we have to label it, but someone can tell what it can be published for, where the provision is. Because we said fundamentally that the data is being published, and not with us, but anywhere, and how it's being collected, how it's being processed. It always means two things, the consent of the respondents, is an individual citizen whose law uses the term subject and the law. We don't have to ask anyone who gets into a working relationship if they'll give it to us. Well, he's gonna give us the data, and we're gonna have to deliver his data so he can have his pension, health, etc. rights there someday. So please, please, you can do it without the law. So, consent or law. You see, there's no privilege here that should be unique, you know that it's impossible for about 500 thousand people to ask for consent. And there's no other one in the law either. You see, there is one thing between the register and the law between that rule on the rights of Croatian defenders and the Register Regulation. Look, there's one. The Parliament, therefore, the Legislative Office that you discussed, must therefore see that it would not be good even if it were possible for ministers to determine, order, you must ask them to comply with the law to the fullest extent possible. It means that there is a law, and I can't go wider when it's in the register what's in the law, it's not possible, because otherwise we'd come to a slippery ground where anything would be possible, and that's where we should spare always the executive power. Here's what I couldn't accept if someone had ordered us to. No, here I am, no one's gonna order us here. However, I direct you here to better, we here don't have time, to an informer where, I don't know this man doctor... So I can mention where a detailed legal explanation would be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, it'd be pretty nice to be. Therefore, what she could conclude, establish the agency, means that there are no legal assumptions. Furthermore, when it comes to you that this agency is unable to propose any amendments to the law, it can initiate its own law, but it is still not a proponent. You saw it in those, so there wasn't an agency because the bill promoter you know very well the agency couldn't have been. I'll look back when it comes to and then this is the last number of citizens to be used by the minister. You see, the law makes us, or all the laws in general, that when we collect data, we always have a purpose in mind. The fact is that we had a tax code, so we had a problem with the defender and some other places that you couldn't determine if you didn't ask for a home number you couldn't complete that purpose. So, do you know, on the islands, how many people have the same name and last name? If there's no home number, you're not gonna take it all the way. And like the last one, when it comes to the register, I find it interesting. There are some other principles, provisions, etc., rules so it wouldn't be bad when the laws are already mentioned and so some initiatives to consult and experts for this new one, means new registration law, perhaps Professor Josipovic or some others. The registry has its own rules, how it is made and who brings it, what its principles are and whether it is possible and who will change it. If an individual can change it, please. I'm thanking you again, I can see you're tired, all of you. So, some criticisms can really accept, but this when it comes to the register, we really have nothing to do about it. And also, I'm going to give you two, three months from now this book where you're going to see comparisons of the number of employees in these agencies, you're going to see a number of other examples of what's the same in other countries and this when it comes to banks and so on. There are certain problems but this is not just about Croatia, so there is still where the one in position is, the bank is in a position that if someone wants to deal with it unfortunately, the other side is asking for certain data. Here, I thank you for your attention. And if there's anything else I need, I'm here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20801	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20802	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. I will try to correct one of the allegations that is incorrect in my opinion, which is that the problem created by the abolition of JMBG in 2002 will in some way be solved or resolved by the introduction of a personal identification number. I'll try to explain. The unique number of citizens was the ideal primary key for any database and it was precisely the logic of its doing that was not available to prevent such databases from being searched by that number. If, instead of JMBG, we had a new JMBG and this is this personal identification number and if it was available and the same primary key for all databases, then it didn't make sense to cancel JMBG because in JMBG he wrote a birth date that was a more or less public matter and some birthplace data. Therefore, it would not be good for the OIB to actually be just one replacement for JMBG. And let's just have one more sentence. Many companies now use JMBG numbers that were created as the permutation of JMBG and then just change the numbers, the same should be prohibited. So, any, any algorithm that makes a personal identification number any primary key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20803	Your Honor, you've exceeded your time and I don't see any correction. I mean, we have to make a correction. ... You can't get word anymore you've finished yours, we've also finished this point. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20804	Secondly, the Annual Work Report 2007 Personal data protection agencies, Carrier: Personal Data Protection Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting in line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, which reads: "The Annual Work Report for 2007 of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data" is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by the majority 71 votes for, 3 abstentions and 43 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20805	Let me just announce that we will continue at 15.15 minutes with a third point: - Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office for 2007. Holder: Croatian Pension Insurance Office pursuant to Article 129, 139. The Pension Insurance Act, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, submitted a report. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government delivered an opinion. And that's where we're going to stop, so the proposing representatives, if they consider it necessary, will give their reasons. Thank you, and I just want everybody to have a good one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20806	We continue the session Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2007 Proposer of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Pension Insurance Act, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, submitted a report. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government delivered an opinion. Croatian Pension Insurance Institute Director Mile Rukavina will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20807	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons. This presentation of my introduction on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in 2007 or for 2007 will be similar to my presentation to this High House in the same session last year on the work and business of the Institute for the previous period, for 2006. In 2007 too, a large job was carried out in the office, which was influenced and strengthened by the legislative activity of this High House in the area of pension insurance. Last year they were adopted and entered into the application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision of 12 May 98. we are referring to the compensation of the users of the highest family pensions. The Act on the add-on to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act. And the adopted Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2008 for which the preparatory action in the office began and during 2007 and in this year these activities will be completed in full. Everyone should also mention the translation of the rights, translation of pensions and compensations to Croatian defenders under the Law on the Rights of Defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children, and the implementation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the area of the victims of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families, also from 2006. All these jobs, both regular and extraordinary, have been carried out within the prescribed legal deadlines. In addition to this, I would say that a large range of jobs, new jobs in last year's office continued to work intensively on both the process and the improvement of the up-to-dateness, I mean reducing the duration of the insurance process and raising the quality of the pension insurance rights. Update as a permanent task and the main indicator of success in the work of the institute, nearly halved from several years ago, for example in 2004 and given the extremely demanding tasks in the implementation of the reconstruction of the institute that takes place in parallel, it could be freely said that the results and maximum that can be achieved at this time are stated. Further improvement of the update will be achieved or achieved by re-designing the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute into the most modern public institution in the Republic of Croatia by moving to a new focused organisation of work with full IT support with the introduction of digital documents into the business processes of the Institute. Something about the state of the pension insurance system of intergenerational solidarity. This system constitutes a legal framework governing the way to ensure the risk of age of disability, as well as administrative and institutional arrangements for the implementation of pension insurance. The importance of the pension system in the economic, social and political life of the Republic of Croatia is reflected in the number of insurance payers for pension insurance, the number of pensioners and members of their family living from that pension, and the amount of pension insurance expenditure and the share of their share in gross domestic product. Characteristic indicators of the status of the pension scheme are the share of the expenditure or pension insurance costs in the gross domestic product, the ratio of the number of insurance and pensioners, then the inflow of new pensioners, and the level of pensions relative to the salary. On 31 December 2007, a million 121 thousand 540 pensioners and a million 579 thousand 463 insurance companies were registered in the office, which gives us a 1:1.41 ratio and this is, however, following a long-term continuous deterioration, a minimal improvement in this ratio that is significant, so significant for the state and sustainability of the pension insurance system, intergenerational solidarity. For example, a few years ago we had the lowest ratio in 2001, 2002 and 2003 when we had 1:1,36, and then this ratio slowly climbed in 2004 to 1:1,37 in 2005. 1:1.39 to be 1:1,40 in 2006. In 2007, total pension insurance expenditure grew slower than gross domestic product growth in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the share of expenditure, insurance in GDP in 2007, was 11.9%, which means a decline compared to previous years, so for example, when we started in 2004, we had 12, over 12%, 12.22%, today it is still a significantly lower share in GDP. The average pension for December 2007 was $96 and 92 June, which was 4.88% more than in the previous year and the average net salary ratio was 40.28%. The average age pension, also as one of the parameters, was 2206 kuna and 6 June for December 2007 and the average retirement pension for December 2007 was 44.5% The average pension that was made for work for 40 years and more of the internships considered in the European Union as a pension level parameter in the Republic of Croatia is 61% of the average net salary. In 2006, it was around 63%, which is approximately the level of pension in some Member States of the Union. In 2006, for example, Belgium had 67%, Finland 62%, Germany 63%, Slovakia 63%. The total income of pension insurance in 2007 amounted to €30 billion 516 million and total pension insurance expenditure in the same year amounted to €30 billion 518 million. Of course, there are also pension funds for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Of the total expenditure, almost 97% refers to or more precisely 97.86% to pensioners’ payments and the remaining expenditures are professional services, financial expenditures, costs for the purchase of immaterial, non-financial assets and compulsory insurance of special categories, here I mean the second pillar. In addition to pension insurance based on generation or intergenerational solidarity, the Institute shall also exercise the right to an allowance for children. And for December of 2007, there were 242 thousand 980 users of an extra for 455 thousand 761 children, which is 9.51% higher than the previous reporting period, I think on December 2006. The average amount of allowances for children was 363 kuna and 90 lip per child, which is 32.1% more than in the previous year and for financing allowances for children in 2007 spent a billion and 880 million kuna. When considering the status of the pension insurance system, it cannot be avoided or two laws adopted in 2007 that contributed to its further stabilisation and which specifically improved the material position of the pensioners. These are the Law on the addendum to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pensions Act: the Law on the add-on to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act was adopted on 13 July 2007 and entered into force on 7 August of the same year, and this law provides for the achievement of, or determination of an allowance to pensions recognised and determined exclusively by the PSO, according to the Pension Insurance Act and in order to mitigate, the difference between so-called. new beneficiaries of pensions. Therefore, pensions made and determined under the Pension Insurance Act resulting from the gradual expansion of the accounting period for the calculation of the pension in the transitional period from 2000 onwards, taking into account, of course, the differences which will arise by extending the accounting period for the whole working period until 2010 and later. The peace has increased from 4% to 27% depending on the year of the right. Pensions from 99 to 07 increased from 4 to 24.9%, pensions made in 2008 increased by 25.9%, will increase by 26.4% in 2009 and by 27% in the coming years. In 2007, an allowance was paid for two months, in November for October and in December for November 2007 totalling 102.2 million kuna for an average of over 197,000 pensioners. In 2008, an add-on was paid for 11 months, here covered payment for December 2007 and for the period January-West 2008 totalling 658.11 million kuna for an average of 213.5 users of pensions. Furthermore, by other law, I mean, of course, the new Pension Insurance Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2008, has further increased the scope of the law and the level of rights that are achieved through the application of the Pension Insurance Act. Thus, temporary retirements, instead of current 0.34% per month, are reduced by 0.15% per month, which, in the event of that pension, 5 years earlier, means a total reduction of 9% rather than the previous 20.4%. The lowest pensions to be determined for each year of the completed pension internship in the unreduced amount of 31 years of retirement, not as so far in the reduced amount. And the disability pensions achieved on the basis of the professional inability to work paid during the employment of their users have been increased by 33 per group and 50% by another, respectively. It should also be noted that compared to the new and more favourable calculation of these pensions, users were re-defined and the pension difference for the period from January to September, 30 September 2008 was paid at the beginning of this month for almost 70,000 users, ie so-called. the old users amounting to HRK 108 million and one part of the work to be done manually because of the specificity of the procedure and the rights somewhere for about 6 thousand users will be carried out by the end of the year as defined in the law. As regards the work of the professional service, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is a public institution with public authority in the resolution of pension insurance rights and obligations established by the Pension Insurance Act and the Pension Insurance Act, mandatory compulsory pension insurance is required on the basis of generational solidarity, etc. The first pillar of three-part retirement insurance. I don't think there's any need to mention that the rest of the system is governed by special regulations. Mandatory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity must ensure rights as we know about age, early age, disability, family pension, minimum basic professional rehabilitation, compensation for physical damage and travel expenses in connection with the achievement of security rights and, all together, the practical activity of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. As part of the implementation of pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity in 2007 there were over 600 thousand procedures or requests, namely 604 000 401 requests for pension insurance rights and allowances for children, which is 2.15% more than in 2006 of which 517 thousand 366 requests or 85.6%, which is 2.5% less than in 2006. Implementation in the first degree is at 2006 level, while execution in the second degree is lower by 12%. The reason is a large number of complaints in the cases of defenders, Croatian defenders, in which a long-term procedure of medical skill is complex, and a repetition of the review procedure in the assessment of disability at the Committee for Audition, the assessment of the disability of the Ministry of the Family, the defender and intergenerational solidarity as a chronic lack and a great burden on the institutions. However, in the office we continued in addition to all this, the trend of reduction even by 14.8% of the number of outstanding claims from earlier periods was thus transferred instead of in the previous period when 80,000 were transferred in 2007. 70,000 pending requests. In addition to regular jobs, I have already mentioned this at the beginning of the presentation, so besides my regular business, he has done a large number of extraordinary jobs that he has been given in relevance under the laws of the Republic of Croatia. I think that because of the great importance for this House, and especially for the pensioners, our pensioners, we need to remember in a few words what it looked like. For example, through the implementation of the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 12 May, the right to compensation was granted by almost or approximately 430 thousand users, and the payment was made by two models, known model A, model B. Payment by model A, payment during the first two years after the duration of the fund. Of course, the amount of compensation was increased by interest and reduced by 50% and was paid into 4 wars in total by 4.8 means 4 billion and 800 million kuna. According to model B, we had a payout during or there would be a payout better said over eight years of which the first two years of waiting were. The total amount of the corresponding compensation shall be paid for interest, divided into six annual meals. The first war after this model was paid in the 12th month of 2007 at 702.6 million kuna, followed by the payment of the second war in December this year. As for the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision, I am referring here to the compensation of, of course, the users of family and highest pensions. The right has been achieved by 35 thousand 456 users, and the payment is made in the same model as the users who have obtained the right to compensation by, we could call it that, the basic Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court decisions. According to model A, three wars totalling 378.3 million, two wars in 2007 totaling 250 million and one in 2008 amounting to 127 million were paid so far. According to the HPB-Investta Management Society, on the basis of both laws on the name of compensation so far, a total of 5 billion and 880 million kuna has been paid to users, and a total of 15.5 billion kuna will be paid to end the damages under this law and these laws. As regards the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Defence from the Homeland War and members of their family, 2006 and '07. the year was paid the difference to the translated pension, so-called debt to Croatian defenders under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and Homeland War in total amounting to 516 million kuna. During 2007, 11.000 450 rights requirements were addressed in the office under the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the field of war-suffering rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were members of the Croatian Council of Defence and members of their families. The pension payment under the contract began in April 2007, and 36.3 million kuna was paid in 2007. On 31st October of this year, a total of 15 thousand 821 requests were recorded in the office, with 11 thousand 231 requests resolved from the beginning of the payment until that date, meaning 31 October a total of 137.5.6 million kuna were paid. If we were to recapitulate all of this, then it's about improving the material position, back when we look at it for three years through compensation, through pension supplements, through the amendment of the Pension Insurance Act, through novels... , by solving the problem or translating the debt rights to Croatian defenders, through payment related to the resolution of members of HVO spent a total of 7 billion and 562 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the work of the institutions and the work of modernization, what I would like to point out is that, we have already talked about it, that the government has accepted the study of the basis of the re-organisation, which is also the beginning of a comprehensive work on the modernisation of the institute and the goal is clear. This is a transformation of institutions into a modern public institution for the implementation of pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity with the aim of raising the various quality of services provided by the Institute to its users, reducing the duration of the pension insurance process and reducing business costs. For the reconstruction of the institute, he worked intensively on the principles of a process-oriented organisation in 2007 in five areas, projects. We've reported them every time to this House. I believe that there is no need but to state that so far all business processes, fundamental and supportive to the level of participants and activities, have been documented model of future processes under the conditions of modern IT technology, etc. "it be" model, followed by the phase of its implementation. The proposal for a programme for reducing the number of workers and providing them with a draft of a new model of salaries submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also been drawn up. A functional specification has also been developed, either from the ESUD project, a new central computer has been installed, an international tender has been conducted and a selected implementer for the first phase of implementation of the RP system module. In addition to these activities, relating to part of certain aid and to the World Bank, in 2007, the Institute and independently using its own human potential and material technical resources continued to start the process of modernising and improving business through the creation of a human potential management project, a proposal for a new wage model, and a series of other activities from which several of them would be the most significant measure to reduce the duration of the process, the resolution of pension insurance rights, the modernisation of business, the archiving with continuous extrication of the registration material, for the reporting period. For example, material from around 276,000 pension records and microfilmated approximately in the reporting period of 11 million 300 000 documents was excreted. The work on the establishment of a long-term documentation policy and the extension of the range of electronic business within the E-Croatian project was then continued. In particular, I would like to point out that the so-called so-called "institute" was implemented in 2007 as well. spin or CHN project, it is realised or realized of the procurement plan. And the Institute introduced this model, i.e. this information system, the management of the procurement processes, throughout the public authority in the Republic of Croatia. This system enables simple, transparent and effective monitoring of the implementation of the procurement plan from the launch of the procurement process, the conclusion of the contract to the realisation of the contract, thereby increasing the financial efficiency and control of the spending of funds. Work in the field of user work, to facilitate and speed up the exercise of rights additionally, related to what I have already mentioned, they have been put into operation four new exposures, in Pitomaca, Gračac, Novalja and Otok, started with the realization of the project of modernising the way of working with the users of services in the framework of which the creation of a central place of communication with users will allow the user in one place without the need for personal contact with the manager of the procedure to receive rapid full information on the course of the procedure, as well as information regarding the exercise of pension insurance rights and child allowance. With a new way of working that began in 2007 and in the newly organized area service in Vukovar, it was continued with the implementation of the project, until now the Institute has introduced such a way of working fully into 15 regional services and in part into three regional services of 20 district services and the project will end within the planned deadline. What I would also like to point out, in conclusion, is that it is particularly important that all these jobs, regular, extraordinary, in the reporting period which covered a huge number of pensioners and represented significant changes in the scope and level of their rights, the Institute has done to us in the best possible way that is confirmed by the findings of the State Audit Office, which is unconditional for the third time in a row. We at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute are aware of the importance of the role and tasks that our institution, which is the whole pension system has in Croatian society, its social and economic importance and all of our knowledge and abilities, will focus the future towards the implementation of our tasks in a legal and professional manner, taking account of and on the rational management of the funds in line with the summit for which the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is established. Dear gentlemen, I thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20808	Thank you very much. Committee reporters, work, social partnership? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? Government representatives? I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20809	Dear Vice President, Director and fellow MPs. Well, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has been active since mid-2005 on the basis of study, the basis of the reconstructions adopted and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is working on its transformation into a modern public institution for the implementation of pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity. As part of the implementation of pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity in 2007 at the Institute, as you heard from Director 604 000 401 requests for pension insurance rights and child allowances, which is for 21.5% more requirements than in 2006. Of which 517 thousand were resolved 366 requests or 85.6%. Why am I mentioning that data again? I think it's a positive and one big breakthrough in the solution anyway. The solution to the request must be burdened by a large number of complaints in the cases of Croatian defenders, which is a complex and long-term procedure of medical skill, audit, assessment of disability, and a chronic lack of sufficient skills in the office. In 2007, the Institute carried out a number of extraordinary tasks that were given to it in the relevant manner under the laws of the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of the law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia from 12 May 1998 on the basis of which the amount of compensation was calculated for the users of the highest pensions and family pensions made during the period from 1 January 99 to 4 August 2004. The sum of the compensation included a total of 43,000 and 219 beneficiaries of whom the right to compensation was achieved by 35 thousand and 456 persons. In the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, the procedure for the translation of pensions and compensation of Croatian defenders covered about 42 thousand items. The implementation of the Pension Insurance Act calculated the amount of the allowance for more than 315 thousand pensioners made under the Pension Insurance Act and was first paid with a pension in November 2007. During 2007, there were 11.000 450 requests for recognition of rights under the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on co-operation in the area of the rights of victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families, of which approximately 5,000 700 requests were resolved. In 2007, by using available human potentials and material technical resources, the Institute continued to start the process of modernising and improving its business through the creation of a human potential management project and a proposal for a new model of salary in the institution, as well as a number of other activities, which are the most significant implementation of measures to reduce the duration of the pension insurance process, the modernisation of jobs, the archiving with continued... registered material to facilitate and accelerate the exercise of the rights of insurance and pensioners and beneficiaries of pension incomes have been put into office in Pitomaca, Grazac, Novalja and Island. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has also started with the realization of a project to modernise how to work with the users of services of the Institute, which will allow the user in one place without the need for personal contact with the manager of the procedure to quickly receive full information on the course of the procedure as well as information on the exercise of pension insurance rights and child allowances. In 2007, the Institute implemented a project to implement the procurement plan and thus the first of the public authorities in the Republic of Croatia, which in any case praisedly introduced an informed system of the management of the procurement processes. This system enables simple, transparent and effective monitoring of the implementation of the procurement plan from the launch of the procurement process, contract conclusion to the realisation of the contract, thereby increasing the financial efficiency and control of the spending of funds. According to the plan and programme of portfolio management by the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Administrative Council of the Pension Insurance Institute provided agreement and all technical services related to a particular documentation were carried out by Croatian Pension Insurance, d.o.o. Finally, several data on the state of the pension insurance system of intergenerational solidarity. On 31 December 2007, a million 121,540 pensioners and a million,579,463 insurance companies were registered in the Institute, giving a 1:1,41 ratio. In 2005, this ratio was 1:1.39, and in 2006, the ratio was 1:1.4. This, following a long-term continuous deterioration, shows a further minimal improvement in this ratio of significant to the state and sustainable pension insurance system of intergenerational solidarity. The total pension insurance revenues in 2007 amounted to €30 billion, while the total expenditure on pension insurance in that year amounted to €30 billion 518 million, including pension funds and pension benefits from Croatian Homeland War defenders. Of the total expenditure 91.86% refers to payments by users and the remaining costs of professional service operations, financial expenditure and expenditure on the purchase of non-financial assets and compulsory insurance of special categories with insurance of those from the second degree, column. In 2007, the total expenditure of pension insurance grew slower than the growth of gross social product. That's what the principal was talking about. The share of that insurance expenditure in the gross social product in 2007 was 11.9%, which means further decline compared to previous years. In 2003 it was 12.44%. In 2004, 12.22%. 2005. 11.80%. 2006. 11.54%. And that points to financial stabilisation of the pension system. In addition to pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity, the Institute also implements the right to an allowance for children. For December 2007, there were 242 000 980 users of extras for 455 thousand 761 children. This means somewhere for 9.51% more children compared to December 2006 which in any case is a good indicator of the bar for Croatian nationality. The average amount of allowances for children was 363.90 kuna per child, which is 32.1% more than in the previous year and a total of 1.88 billion kuna was spent to finance children's allowances in 2007. The average pension for December was $96.92, which was 4.88% higher than in the previous year and the average net salary was 40.28%. The average retirement pension for December 2007 was 2 thousand and 206 kuna and the average retirement pension for December 2007 was 44.49%. In 2006, it was 44.26%. So you can see a slight growth. However, the average pension achieved for full-time work in the European Union is considered a pension level parameter in the Republic of Croatia at 61% of the average net salary. In 2006, 63% was approximately the level of pension in some EU Member States in 2006, for example, Belgium, which has 67%, Finland 62%, Germany 63%, Slovakia 63%. But in order not to catch up to these percentages later as it is a convenient fact is unfortunately that the purchasing power with the pensions of our pensioners is far, far below the purchasing power of just the pensioners of these countries who, as a percentage, have an approximate ratio. Finally, given the quality of the report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which results in positive shifts in raising the quality of services provided by the Institute to its users and is also the result of the good implementation of the reconstruction and reorganisation of the Croatian Democratic Community Club's institutions, it supports and does not comment on the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Institute for the previous year, i.e. 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20810	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20811	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the State Secretary's esteemed, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. The number of pensioners means the end of 2007 was 120,000. The number of insurance is 580,000. The ratio is 1:1.41. In 1991, this ratio was 719868 pensioners versus one million 839265 insurance workers. Then we had a 1:2.56 ratio. In the 1990s, the de facto ratio was 1:3. If we had such a ratio today, obviously only pension contributions would be sufficient so that we can cover all our obligations or demand for our pensioners. The total expenditure of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute as indicated here are expressed at 26.3 billion kuna. But for pensions or for the functioning of the system last year, much more than 30.5 billion kuna were paid, or more specifically 30 billion 518 million 625 thousand and 86 kuna. From the pension meaning of this system we secured through the contributions of 18.5 billion kuna, and understandablely 12 billion kunas then went out of the budget. On page 13 days is a plate so-called. Preferred pensions. So NOR participants 50 thousand 187 two thousand and 463 kuna. Workers at certain jobs in the internal affairs of 3600 kuna. Members of the Croatian Homeland Army in '41. '45. In 2047, they were 23328. Former political prisoners 5727. Then here we have 12469 former JNA members, a total pension of 2802 kuna. Then there are members of the HAZU, Executive Council of the Parliament, 399 MPs in the Croatian Parliament and members of the Government, Article 38 Federal Chamber, miners of the Istrian coal mine “Tupljak” d.d. Labin 267, average pension of 3116 kuna and 7 lipa, which makes me extremely proud. Croatian Army, 56,000 Croatian defenders, 177004 users of this type of pension. There are obviously some categories missing here, such as the President of the State or the widow of the President of the State, I think generals, etc. What is also interesting to say when we mention them we call it such privileged pensions or those who are under privileged terms in retirement that almost at this point in the Republic there is no family whose member does not realize some kind of pension. The next day, when 500,000 defenders are in their system, there will certainly be no more family who will not de facto realize any of these kinds of pensions. What I personally hold in order not to forget is that these 50187 NOB participants must be able to return to them so-called. acquired rights. As far as this information goes on page 14, he's indicative. That's what the secretary of state was talking about. This is about a full-time pension, and then it is said here that, taking into account the same parameters, the average pension rate for full-time workers in the average wage of compulsory insurance in some European countries in 2006 was: Austria 80% of the average salary, Belgium 67, the Czech Republic 79, Denmark 71, Finland 62, France 79, Germany 63, Hungary even 102, Ireland 78, Italy 87, Luxembourg 98 and not to list further and all data. Croatia sees it here at 63%. So, like one Germany, we're even in a better position than Finland. But clearly, I don't want a cynic. In one Germany at an average salary of 2 and a half or 3 thousand euros, 60% that is 1800, 2000 euros and in Croatia at 5000 kuna is 60% 3000 kuna. So, with 2,000 euros in one Germany where everything is cheaper than in Croatia to live. In Croatia with 3,000 kunas, it is extremely difficult to survive. These data that I've been presenting in some way are the essence of this report. What is certainly commendable, what needs to be particularly highlighted is the return I will call it debt to pensioners or pensioners, that it has not been done de facto by 2007. It's clear he's coming back today. We would never, but never call it that debt back, because we ourselves have the opportunity to monitor the situation on the Croatian and world markets. Today no one clearly buys shares of Croatian companies anymore. Today, everyone wants to deprive themselves as soon as possible before the shares of Croatian companies. Today, unfortunately, no one wants to invest no more in Croatia, but in no other country, but simply capital saves what can and we will, among other things, because of this fact, fall of stock value on our stock exchanges and the fact that no one intends to invest in Croatia anymore, have a certain time of exceptional problems. We dare say every, almost every potential investment or every potential investor de facto drove whether it's gas in Istria, whether it's some company Adria, LNG terminal, hotels, golf, some factory, and that's how we've driven to Croatia in the last eight, nine years, but I dare say between 4 and 5 billion euros. On the basis of VAT from these investments alone, we were able to earn one billion euros, as well as open 40,000 new jobs to how many we will de facto lose in 2009. Why am I saying that? I'm saying that among other things, he would only mention some moments that await us de facto in 2009. By reaching the Croatian National Bank to reduce, let's say, those mandatory reserves or reserves to the banks were released by 8.4 billion kuna, de facto it was an act of saving a state that must provide 2 billion kuna for bonds reaching the 11th month. I want to believe that it will succeed in prolonging the estimated 4.6 billion kuna on the basis of these guarantees for Croatian shipbuilding, and based on which Brodosplit should pay 1.9 billion kuna, "Third May" 1.4 billion kuna, "Brodotrogir" 800 million kuna, "Kinglevica" 400 million kuna. God forbid we fail, then Croatia will be in the right sense of that word in the banana. But that we're in a total banana, testifying, and the fact that next year for the import and service of external debt, we're going to need to secure about 35, 36, maybe 37 billion dollars. There's a clear question of where we're going to find that money or maybe there's an IMF intervention, and then if that happens, there's going to be a course, and like I said, we're going to be in a total banana. On page 38 of this report, the following data are provided on the revenues of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, saying total revenues for 2007 were secured in the amount of €26.3 billion, which is 99.47% of planned revenues. Income from the contribution, it means 18.5 billion kuna, which accounts for 70.38% of total income. Income from the government's pension commitments budget made according to specific regulations and other revenue from the budget amounting to HRK 7,788 million, which is 29.56%. Income from the mandatory insurance budget of the special category insurance company 3 million 585 kuna, which is 0.01%, the World Bank and so on, and so on. They are interesting in this report and these data from the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, but only before I say that the total expenditure on pension insurance per month for 2007 is normally 30.5 billion kuna from January to December. As far as this portfolio is concerned, the total value on 31.7 was $3.1 billion. The value of this portfolio compared to 31.7.2007, so it's certainly less than 60 percent today, and if it's a billion and 500 million kuna, then it's a full handful of beards. Clearly, it is the result of these stock oscillations, but I would say poor investment assessments, such as those funds in some funds, so in some foreign countries it seems to me that something has been invested in Montenegro and so on. All in all with these pensions, no one can be clearly satisfied, but it is also true that Croatia has the youngest retirement population on the other hand and probably the worst ratio in the European Union between pensioners and insurance workers. And as I said, and as others say, and that's one of those moments why we can say that this system that we've been building is just in a banana. On the other hand, what will characterize in 2009 is this decline in exports, imports, retailes, growth in credits, where no one can anymore, our employment is falling, tourism is bad, Europe expects its recovery in 2010, Croatia may not be able to return 11.3 billion euros this year. When I say these, I mean 2009, it is necessary to secure 23.24 billion dollars for imports and Croatia has no such foreign exchanges, the $37, 38 billion, and it is good that the state will extend its obligations, but what will become of some others. There is no fear, banks in Croatia will certainly not profit, they will extract from Croatia the profits of Pliva, T-HT and so on. The problem is only in something else, if the mothers of these banks don't finance our financial institutions and if they have to pay back between $3 billion and $4 billion next year, and that's already the problem, it's probably going to happen because one Hypo, Erste and so on are asking for intervention from the federal Austrian state and so on, and so on. The problem is that it will be with Croatian companies, there is a freeze in wages, the government is doing it to freeze wages in the public sector with 270, 280 thousand salaries that are on the budget de facto freezing millions of 580 thousand salaries, but that means less contributions, and then the question is what do we do. Not to mention, what I think should be done, in one word 2009 will be a difficult year, the key is to save employment and save exports, save tourism because in 2009 and the revenues of the Croatian pension system will certainly be smaller than they are in this 2008. In the next year, we will have more, social separations will be bigger, the budget will be actually lower, and I will just say that in this situation surely Istria has not contributed in any way, if for nothing else, and then because we have less unemployment than the 1990s, greater exports than the 1990s and 7 times more jobs than the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20812	Thank you. One correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20813	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting my colleague Cain's misstatement regarding the term of duty to the pensioners. So it's inadmissible in this High House to use the wrong terms for the right things. The Constitutional Court's decision ordered damage done to pensioners from 1993 to 1998 and obliged the state to compensate for damages to pensioners called compensation. The debt would mean a major plus interest that no state can bear, except, and I would allow my colleague Caina to talk about the debt only if she intends to fulfill her pre-election promise that he will elect the return of the remaining 50% debt to the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20814	SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20815	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the government, HZMO. We discussed it about two months ago, and I think, if not this summer on the board, this report on the work that has been written in the manner that it has been done for years and how it has been going in our Parliament, I would say most of it correctly in the syringe and in the matrix that has been in place and which has become so to say a pattern that is no longer even questionable. However, the right question could be raised here, although it is likely that people who sit here and are not the most invited to give answers to these questions, because it is not those who should formulate what would be called the country's pension policy, and the government for five years is persistent or the governments are silent and there is not one institution that would in a whole, systematic and serious way put this largest area and the biggest social and social expenditure in general into some kind of weather relationship and said what we can expect as a state, which can expect those people who are now working, which will actually happen with pensions as a large social cost and expenditure, but also as a source of income and existence for at least a quarter of people living in this country. That's not in this report. If the base is in 2006 and is talked about in 2007 and some trends are being set up or shown there and yet selectively drawn, then in no way can a discussion of what should really be discussed be opened. The only thing that is evident is that if we took five years of pension system in Croatia, the only thing that is visible is the correct data and the number that pension expenditures and costs in Croatia are reduced, and that's important, a lot. They're pretty low. That was one of the objectives of the 99th year reform. Of 13.87% of the pension expenditure in total, in Croatia's GDP in 2002 they now fell to 11.09%. This is a major and significant decline and Croatia is currently spending much less, much less than the average of the European 27th. It's about 12.7% out there, the data refers to a period of five or six months ago. Croatia is less out for pensions. It is simply good to know that this system is clearly stabilised and that the restrictions that were introduced into the pension system in 99 years gave its fruit, and if that was the goal we can say bravo, we have succeeded in that government in 2000 to 2003 and these governments here. But I warn you, the share of pension expenditure was 13.87 in 2002. Why was he? So, apart from the benefits of the state and the financial system at all, some benefit from the state should be given to its citizens, and because when it went to intervene and correct the mistakes, the failures and damages now, according to counterpart Hrelja, the damage done to the pensioners started with what was called the return of debt to pensioners of more than 2.5 billion kuna each year, which generated a significant pension growth of about 520 million kuna in four years. What's been going on for the last five years? In the last five years, because all this other stuff doesn't make much sense, let's see what the trends are like. In the last 5 years, pensions have been nominally 5 years, so not 4, they have increased by 200 kuna. So their growth was, nominal growth was 40 kuna per year. When you take what the cost of living was, how much inflation was, it is clear that they were special, and that, for example, in total growth, significantly more participated pensions that were made under special regulations, it is clear that pensions have fallen in real terms over the last 5 years. The country's lower pensions and pensions are getting lower. For the same pension as a worker if you want, an adult means disabled and every other person except those who go by special regulations can be bought less than they could have been five years ago and that's the case. And even when this debt return is included, as it's said in a colloquial way, even when it's turned on and put on pensions they haven't grown in these five years, realistically, I'm talking about their real value. The average pension in 2007 was around 1,933,00 kuna, and at the end of the year at the 12th month with the alignment of 1,933,00 kuna. If you look at the structure and the number of pensioners that are below the existential minimum, then we have no reason here calmly, nicely, we have a good, wonderful report and say things work and it's good, it's all going its course, it's all clean etc. Pensions in Croatia are simply not at the level at which they would guarantee that people can live normally from retirement. They're not at that level, and that's a serious problem. There's been silence about it, there's been talk about it, the retirement party, the unions, these, these, all of them, all of it, but those pensions aren't enough. You will say, neither pay is sufficient, nor is this, nor is that. But we here have a trend of decline, and this is that our pensions and pension expenses are lower than within the European Union, says we have space, but that within that political will, we need to see whether the pension system is in those priorities or not. I think we should be. The other thing that's not talked about here at all, and the author says, "I don't care," we're just writing about intergenerational solidarity about so-called. The first pillar still doesn't care about anything, and we don't know who it is. Who cares about Croatia so that five years, or six, seven years since the establishment of the second pillar, even though it was envisaged, the expenditures for that second pillar certainly generate new future new, new new, newest poor people within the pension system and will then be said that the reform we have jointly organised is how it failed. But here you see from the second pillar some who have gone now have five, six retired get little money. Well, of course they get a little bit, first because they're short, but also because they're payments from those 5% that go to the second pillar absolutely insufficient that those who are now 35 can expect to have a pension more decent than those today who take only from intergenerational solidarity. They won't. And now we can play whatever we want and say we're not interested. As far as we're concerned, in 8, 10 or 12 years, we won't be here, someone else can deal with these problems. It is not the responsibility of the citizens, in front of the people who are working now, because we have to take care of the negative demographic trends, etc. having that problem. I'm sure we can't ignore him or solve him right now. This is a serious problem and I remind the SDP has offered a solution not to burden employers, not to burden existing pension expenditures, or to compromise intergenerational solidarity in any way. We have offered a model and we will again offer a model for the second pension column to go up to 9% as planned. And it should be done as soon as possible or immediately. The other thing you don't talk about here either. But it is an actual topic and I know that you will say what we care about. There are laws. You're Brother Parliament. There is a government, you solve the problem, but the government is silent about it. We have 120,000 people over 65 in this country who don't have pensions. We recognized them as a problem. The SDP has twice offered its Social Pensions Act. This government wrote it in an agreement and not only in an agreement, but put even more into the programme for this year. And not for the whole year, but for the first six months. So, as an absolute priority. And it's not that big a deal. Is it out of those 120,000 you give only those who have no property, no income whatsoever? Let these people who are now going to find themselves in a really difficult situation because of all these cataclysms that are being announced. Newspapers that people died of hunger, we should not be surprised by the November ones. This level of insensitivity, which can be addressed, because it is responsible for the absolute social most vulnerable category of people. It was mentioned, let's now compare that in 2003 and 2000. What happened in five years? So it's going down from 14% to 11%. The state saved itself money on pensioners. Normally, because they dropped nominally, which dropped the real value of pensions, because the share of pensions fell from 43% of the average salary to below 40%. Now it's going around at 40%. Because the growth nominal was significantly lower than the actual cost. It's the result of this savings as the only positive result that's been designed, and everything else is actually extremely negative trends. Finally, another problem that is also often mentioned and to be mentioned. And a little wrinkle. We have these pensioners from other republics. Well, it's not big money either. They had, once had a pension, a pension from Croatia and their pension from Bosnia and Herzegovina, so they had recognised that right as a pension law in Croatia, then they had an allowance, and so it was abolished. Few, few of these people come forward and ask if there is any chance that we who have not blamed our fate have worked, who have been expelled because they were Croats from their centuries-old places of residence. They are now paying one price not even the Croatian state to understand each other. But it is some kind of elemental solidarity, because these are our fellow citizens who live here sharing with us. So we have recorded problems, we have clear and we will be very happy to help, we have already completed legal proposals, we have even political will. I think that on the issues of pensioners as interesting as they are at the time of the election when it is estimated who they will give their vote to, that these issues should be discussed before the elections in a calm, serious way, we should see that we set up some kind of institute to see who the government is actually talking about and to stop being considered a general political issue that comes from the elections to the elections, because the consequences are actually cataclysmic and difficult to correct and are no longer just political decisions when they are made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20816	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20817	Dear Mr Vice President, the honourable representatives of the motionor, or rapporteur. The report in front of us is somewhat declassified. Namely, the circumstances in which the Institute worked in 2007, are different from those in which we discuss this report when it comes to the overall economic, social picture of Croatia, especially in light of what we can Anticipate as announcements for a year or years that are just coming. However, the Croatian People's Party club supports this report because it honestly reports on what the Institute is doing but wants to take advantage of this opportunity to open several topics or to say several thesis for which we want to keep them in mind and which we hold out of particular importance when it comes to the Pension Insurance Office. The Bureau is not and must not be just a passing account. A fund that will temporarily pool the money needed to distribute pensions. If that were the case, very few people should work in this institution, but since it is not the case, it must not be so because the institution as a very important public institution is also performing a whole series of other jobs. We want to strengthen the position of institutions in the part that makes the institution a specialised organisation, a specialised institution that is responsible for analysis, to propose prevention of certain bad effects, trends in the economy and where experts will analyse existing opportunities and trends propose better solutions to the Government or solutions that will prevent the negative effects of the overall social situation on the pension system. We know, and that's what the headmaster said about the office having a lot of trouble with the staff. Not only the Bureau, the entire public administration has problems with professional staff, but the lack of these staff in the office is particularly felt because it fails to do this role towards the government. It is very important that the office monitors the state of the labour market, the social picture of the population, trends in population ageing, but also everything that can challenge us in the process of joining the European Union. What's this about? The fact is that Croatia will join the European Union in the new regime of the liberalised labour market. One of the fundamental principles of the European Union is freedom of movement of people, capital and goods. What Poland experienced after entering the European Union I would not like to see it repeat Croatia. From Poland alone, 9 hundred thousand mostly young highly educated people, people at the best age, mostly younger ones, have gone to Ireland and Britain. These are the ones who are the most powerful entrepreneurs, because when they start abroad, the question is whether they will be nostified, whether they will be recognised as a qualification, are virtually ready for a completely different position on the labour market and not start from zero but probably from a minus, they come to a different cultural environment, into another language environment. But what happens as fit back to the country they're leaving? It reduces the number of working most capable residents, delaying the moment of family assembly, family formation, birthing of new children, it directly affects population ageing, it directly affects the number of insurance workers in pension funds domestically and of course directly affects the financial effects that are important to pensioners. It seems to me that there is absolutely no discussion in our public about this problem that is likely to await us, and that we too will experience a drain, not even the brains, but the hearts of the nation, perhaps a temporary one. Some Poles are now returning from Ireland and Great Britain after the recession began. But the question is whether we have the answers to this situation or whether we have built mechanisms to try to amortize, I'm not saying to prevent it because it's almost impossible, this new blow to this ratio of insurance and the number of user pensions. I wish the institute was stronger, more ready and that the government would listen to him if he had something to say on the subject. We have heard very open criticism of the state of pension reform in recent months, some have even predicted failure. That's a very important question. And the Bureau has to communicate this issue to the public, we need to be clear. Whether individuals from the government are talking about the collapse of pension reform speak particularly for certain daily political needs or it is a reflection of the real situation. It would be a good idea if there wasn't any further confusion between people. Likewise, it seems to me that neither the pension system nor the institution benefit from hearing the last days of the wicked prophets who say, "Stop investing in anything, don't spend, the crisis is at hand.". All the prominent economic experts say it is harmful for both the economy and the country as a whole. Of course, the logical question is whether to invest in what doesn't bring money back, but whether it's logical to trouble people to stop spending. What does that mean? This means lower prices, that means cutting cost groups, the biggest known pay, that means firing workers, that means more people on the stock market, and the fewer employees who pay their contribution to the pension fund, and that means ultimately less money for pensioners. Therefore, it is necessary to be very careful and careful to deal with these issues and not to lead people astray or to force them to immobilize their money, rather than to realise the normal flow of money in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. I'll mention two examples. In the first, I will relate to what my colleague Vidovic said. Not long ago, a lady came to my office in Velika Gorica in the 1970s very politely and neatly dressed with old clothes on her, who came only to ask and ask: "Please ask at the Croatian Parliament what is with us Croats who have secured and achieved the right to retire until 1990 and 1991, respectively, why have they abolished and reduced our pensions?" And then she said, "Thank you," she started crying, and she ran out of the office. Her pride no longer allowed her to say a single word. She only made that request. This lady and in the '70s today, with a heavy bone, she's saving her children so she can survive because she doesn't have enough pension. It's a few hundred kunas. She ended her career as a professor at Banja Luka. She sold the apartment there, bought an apartment in Velika Gorica before the war. In the meantime, she had to sell it because she had nothing to live on, so she moved into a little garage. Now there's nothing to sell, and as a sick woman, she has to look after her children to survive because the steak she showed me with that amount she's taking wouldn't be polite enough to tell you how much money it is. But here I'm going to mention another group that turned to us not only at the HNS, but also your clubs, and I'm glad, there was Mr. Hrelja, now he's gone. But I am glad that both Mr. Gajica and Mr. Horvat are there, there are almost 20 thousand persons in the Republic of Croatia who have exercised their right to retire and used the right to retire until 1991 and 1992 respectively, and then found themselves in occupied areas of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, these are the people who made retirement, so all those in their third life who had reported to the Mirovnica Institute after the occupation, and the Peace Institute in 1996, 1997, some eight of those who were persecuted, and returned and the ninth regularly continued to pay their pensions. But to their question, "What about our pensions that we haven't received in years?" They were told: "You have no right to do so." The fact is that courts in individual cases are already making judgments in their favour. But is it possible that we as a state will allow 19 thousand people to go to court to prove their rights, and they all have an identical problem. Someone cheated on them because they didn't accept their right. And they've been admitted, and they've been earned, and they're paid the most normally, and they're still getting paid, but for that period, they're not being recognized. There are already more than 17,000 members in the association that gathers financially damaged pensioners. Many of them are dying and will not experience what their colleagues have experienced from other parts of Croatia, which are due back from 1993 to 1998. So neither in the wars nor in any other form, he refuses to pay them back. It's about people who have extremely small pensions. It's about people living in rural areas. It's about people living in areas of special state concern and it's not just about Serbs. This is a question that will need to be answered among other things in the negotiations on "Justice and Fundamental Rights". If we think we can get away from that problem all the time, they'll meet us around the corner again. Why are we making our own complications? Why do we want the European Commission to give us back our standards and to reject us in the negotiation process on such an important chapter? Isn't it possible to resolve this before we are ashamed of Europe? Do we have to show every single thing that we're not gonna do until they make us? I think we can also, in that sense, suggestiveness of the Pension Insurance Office can be useful both to the government and the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20818	Thank you. The HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. So we see from this report that the subject of this report is compulsory pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity and the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The activities of the Institute are the implementation of compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity established by the Pension Insurance Act and, among other things, include: the pursuit and rights of employees, farmers, craftsmen and so on, the provision of legality, the exercise of rights and the provision of professional assistance to insured persons, the provision of international social insurance contracts and what I want to talk about as one possible part of a small but extremely important and I keep a problem in the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which is the conduct of the administrative procedure. The conduct of the administrative procedure in the exercise of the right and obligations of pension insurance and the basis of the Pension Insurance Act in the procedure of resolving pension rights shall be subject to the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. A general administrative procedure is particularly important in Article 218, which states that when the procedure is initiated by the party's request or the procedure is initiated by official duty and in the interests of the party and where it is not necessary to carry out the examination procedure, the examination procedure is therefore considered if the complete and complete documentation is then the time limit for the adoption of the solution for a month. If there is no documentation missing, the deadline will be extended to two months. So, as a rule, a solution to the application for administrative procedure of the Croatian Pensions Institute is required to bring in within a month or within two months if there is a need to collect some kind of documentation. This report we have on the benches shows that in 2007 there were 604,000 requests in the office. A total of 604 of which 534 thousand in 2007, 504 thousand and 70, almost 70,000 and 500 outstanding requirements from earlier periods. So it's not said earlier whether it relates to 2006. Possible for 2005. Come on, it was probably the majority in 2006, but certainly these 70,000 apply to both 2006 and 2005 and it's possible even years earlier. This results and if we follow the Law on Generality, the Law on Administrative Procedure that was resolved in 2007 is less than 50% of the cases within a legal period of less than 2 months. Therefore, the report does not state the number of requests resolved over a period of 2 months. I think that's missing. So, in the report, I did not find how many items, what are the number of items that have been solved in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office and solved, and over 2 months. Also, the number of pending requests at the end of 2007 was 87,000, over 87,000. It has thus increased and has increased significantly since there were 70,000 demands at the end of 2006. So the increase is somewhere by 16 and a half thousand outstanding demands in 2007. We'll be back soon, the director of the Croatian Institute said that a particularly important, key role is related to the up-to-date. Well, now I'm coming back for an update. So, an increase of 16600 cases, pending cases at the end of 2007 compared to the year before and over 50% of outstanding cases within the legal period, I think it says that something is wrong, that something is wrong and that at least when we talk about this problem, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is unscheduled. So over 50% of outstanding cases within the legal deadline and an increase of nearly 17,000 cases not solved compared to 2006. The report does not show from which time it dates the number of pending requests, these 87,000. So it's about people looking for their rights in some kind of administrative procedure. It is about people who were absolutely certain to solve some problem related to their life existence and who expect this problem to be solved immediately and now, rather than solved over a few months, and at least not solved over a few years. So, if the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute really wants to transform into a modern institution for the implementation of pension insurance, if it wants to achieve a quality level, the level of quality according to European standards, of course, I am sure that in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, they want to reduce all these procedures for the exercise of pension rights. But this overrun of legal deadlines according to the Law on administrative procedure relating to these 30 or 60 days significantly creates a problem, i.e. a disturbance in the regular work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. What's causing it, because I think it's big numbers? If more than 50% of the cases are not settled within the legal period, you correct me if I am wrong, within that legal period of a month or two months, and if we have an increase of these outstanding cases from 70 000 to 87000, then whether it is a matter of information, whether it is a matter of efficiency of work in the Croatian Pensions Institute or something else. But I think there's a problem, and I think we need people who have a problem, who are looking for a solution, who are addressing the Peace Institute this deadline to solve these problems, to the very least, to expect these deadlines to be shortened, not that these deadlines are going on for days or months. Therefore, this is only one short part of the work at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. I would pray not to experience too critically, but this narrow segment relating to the existence of people who need to address the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, who expect their problem to be solved, and this problem concerns their life existence in any case cannot be satisfied unless the legal deadlines are respected, and these deadlines are very short and I understand that. But we all have to understand that these people who address life's existence are either retired or some other question and that if anything else, then I think it's the least we have to ask that legal deadlines be respected. And the law says and calls for the Law on Administrative Procedure. If the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is unable for objective reasons and is clearly unable to resolve these cases in accordance with the law, then here is the Croatian Parliament, or before that the Government will change that law and let us not write the laws in a way that we are not aware that we can do them in advance. But my personal point of view when we talk about this particular one, then I think it's deplaceable to change deadlines, because people who have these problems expect these problems to be solved within a very short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20820	Thank you. At 16.45, it was time to report a ten-minute debate on this point. Now the Club of Representatives of the HSS, Madam Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20821	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party's club considered this report to be correct. We believe that all relevant data that really corresponds to the truth are presented here, but we would also like to suggest that the following report should always be used for comparison, as it would be interesting here in certain tables to see what it looked like in 2006. Of course, with a series of legislative proposals and decisions taken to improve the status of pensioners, it is primarily an important act to implement the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998, where the process of compensation for pensioners has been initiated, but also the Law on the add-on to pensions under the Pension Insurance Act where the difference between old and new pensioners has been reduced in some way. Of course, all the changes that are being made are intended to improve the status of pensioners, and through this report it is evident that there are certain shifts. As stated in the preamble itself, it is important to point out that in 2007, the number of pensioners increased to 1.12 million, but at the same time continued the trend in the number of insurance companies, and a total of 1.58 million insurance workers were recorded in the Bureau in 2007, so that the ratio between the two groups of service providers of the Institute was somewhat improved compared to the previous year and at 1:1,41, which indicates, among other things, the stability of the pension system itself of intergenerational solidarity. The average pension achieved under the Pension Insurance Act for December 2007 was HRK 1996 and 92 June, which was by 4.88% more than in the previous year, while the average net salary of the average pension was 40.28%. What we would like to warn about in the Club of Representatives of the HSS are data relating to the number of outstanding requests transferred from previous years, and according to this report on page 31, 70 407 pending requests were transferred in 2007, which is of course a shift compared to the previous year by about 14%, but we do think that this should still be resolved by a faster dynamic, so we are wondering whether you have come to some proposals and solutions as soon as possible. Also, if we look at page 34 and 35 of this report, it concerns the number of complaints about first-degree solutions during 2007, 11 792 complaints were received on first-degree solutions, and a total of 2 686 complaints were filed on second-degree solutions to the institution and if we add that from 2006 581 pending lawsuits, then it is indeed a large number of cases that have not been solved yet. On page 41, we found it particularly interesting to see the information related to the parent records of the farmer’s insurance company. According to this report, they were recorded in 2007 until 31 December 39 824. If this is compared to previous years, then it is indicated that there is a constant decline in the number of insurance companies because in 2003 there were 59 226, 2004. 51 791, during 2005. 46 726, and during 2006 43 219, to come to a figure below 40,000 in 2007. We at HSS are interested in whether certain analyses are being done, which is why such a trend is taking place, because what we get as information from the field is that some of them are being printed because they don't have enough money to pay for pension insurance. In any case, we would suggest that through the following report you try to offer some solutions, because yet you are people who come from the profession itself, you have a detailed review and analysis of the situation on the ground. But I'd also like to say, because there have been a lot of talk here during the debate about people who don't get any support, no pension, and that alluded to the farmers' population. I have to correct my colleague Vidovic, that's not true because there is something called the income support model. It is one of the pillars of agricultural reform that aims to facilitate the phasing out of non-commercial and commercial agricultural economies, and this model is often misjudged as a social measure to support non-commercial agricultural economies, although it does not really have such a task. Thus, this model refers to those who are at least 65 years of age and do not make income based on independent or non-performing work, or retirement or something like that. This is why we have increased this income support from 5 thousand to 10 thousand kuna per person per year for such individuals through the agricultural reform model. Of course, what the subject of the talks is farmers who are in other categories, but also all those pensioners who have a pension of less than 1,500 kuna. We were saying, we at HSS are in favour and, of course, we are asking for and support to introduce the lowest pension of 1,500 kuna, we can call it a national pension, but we believe it is extremely important because according to the Institute of Pension Insurance, it is evident that 68 457 people have a pension of less than 500 kuna. These 68 457 people, if they take an average pension, are each 259,89 kuna. I ask you who can live with such a pension? If we take the category of those who have a pension of between 500 and 1,000 kuna, there are 102 091, and if we watch the average pension, it is 747.15 kuna. Those in category 1,000.00 to 1.500,00 kuna pensions have 133.307 and their average pension is 1,269.53 kuna. If we add up all three categories that I have listed, and all three categories have a pension of less than 1.500,00 kuna, this leads us to the fact that in Croatia we have 303,855 pensioners who have a pension of less than 1.500,00 kuna, which means that they really live on the edge of poverty and that we need to take concrete measures to correct these injustices. If the calculations are taken for each of these categories as much as it is necessary to make up for the money in order to achieve this minimum pension of $1.500,00 kuna that we are in favour of, then it turns out that it is necessary to secure in the budget of 2.3 billion kuna annually. We are aware that this is not small money, but the fact is that we also have the support of our coalition partners for this project and I am convinced that this project will also be realised, because it is the fact that it is mainly about people who have spent their entire working life under clear skies, who have not had an annual vacation, who have not gone to sea, who have not lived luxuriously, and I think it is a minimum of solidarity by all of us to provide them with at least one minimum national pension which in our opinion in HSS must not be less than 1.500,00 kuna. And, of course, we don't want to forget those new pensioners around whom there have been a lot of words, and that should certainly be the subject of discussion and debate and consensus should be reached on correcting injustice against them. Here I spoke recently with a master who worked in our large company in Croatia, she said she would deserve a pension of $1603.00, and her colleague with the SS was also retired from the beginning of this year and she has a pension of 1.060,00 kuna. So the trend in pensions has been going on since 1999 when the way pensions were calculated and 760,000 people who left before that period in retirement, on average have received slightly greater than $1.900,00 kuna. More than 280,000 people who retired after 1.1.1999 on average have the same internship and salary height and up to 600 kuna less pension than their colleagues who were retired before that date. This would mean in one folk translation, that those who are retired after 1999 live from 1.600,00 kuna, and as time moves away new pensioners are even poorer than those of the old and certainly we at the HSS club are committed to opening the debate that this injustice against new pensioners is corrected, of course with this proposal that we put before all of you to introduce the national, or the lowest pension of 1.500,00 kuna, because we think it's really terrible that over 300 thousand pensioners in Croatia live from a pension of less than 1.500,00 kuna, that almost 70 thousand have an average pension of about 300,00 kuna, but we also advocate that in the next report that your office will produce, we see a clear structure of those pensioners, their years of training and how many years of training they have gone into retirement so that maybe this calculation is more realistic, and we are also aware of the data you have provided. So in any case, we think that the report that you filed is correct, we hope that you will follow the suggestions that we have made from the HSS and we can say that we will support this proposed report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20822	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20823	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I would like to take advantage of this topic, as well as the presence of Mr. Rukavin's director, for wanting to publicly commend him. In these five years, it seems to me to me that he is the only head of the institution with public powers who has reached the conclusion of the Parliament, which was not all but even writtenly informed the Parliament that he has executed the order he has received and I would like to say by his example to serve his other colleagues at the head of other institutions, such as the Health Insurance Office. In March of this year, we made a commitment to all potential citizens who go into retirement to print a guide in order to make it easier to find the way and the rights of this achievement and indeed the guide is printed, and I think it is very well written because the language expression is set up by that population group, although on the web pages these data are regularly updated, but it is a population that is less, more rarely, using the Internet, and this is a means of communication that they understand. I'm saying I'd be happier if everyone did it that way, but here's Mr. Rukavina, you're the first one ever done, so if that means anything to you, thank you at least for sending us to see what it looks like. It may be irrelevant to someone, but trust me, tens of thousands of people who have educated this library are grateful to everyone. Secondly, in my questions or suggestions that I'm going to make, I'm going to try to help you make this report shorter next year, shorter. You will save time, nerves, people who work for you, paper, and perhaps direct the debate on the subject of the report rather than on legislative frameworks like about most of the debates so far, because this is the report on the work of the Institute, not the report on the state of the pension system of our country. An integral part of the report, Mr. Director, is a report relating to or part of the report to the legal council. I thought that since 2005, when we said in conclusion that the Board of Directors must give a special report to the Parliament, because the Parliament is selecting the Administrative Council, it was taken as a rule that in this report your director, the administrative council must not be because it is their report, it was then the Assembly's conclusion that after a few months the administrative council came with its report if you remember and it would be a constant practice. You cannot, on behalf of the Board of Directors, give a report to the Parliament which they did not sign, they did not determine or represent here, defend and explain. So I would most honestly advise you to leave that part to them next year, so we'll have a point and your report, and a point b of the administrative council, because I hope someone is interested in doing the administrative council of the institutions that has 33 billion kuna per year. Secondly, the area is the area of appeal, and the fact is that the number of complaints that have ended, and they relate to pension rights with the MP and other institutions is less than before, and I commended it when their report was, but there is still a part of the data that deserves attention. The number of pending cases transferred from year to year to country pension insurance is 25%, with an overseas 41.3, 42%. That's still a lot. I'd say too much. When we come to first-degree and second-degree decisions in the report, it is evident that last year you had 569 thousand cases in the first-degree decision, the second-degree 35 thousand zero 26 of which were 11 thousand 792 pension insurance complaints, 5 thousand 509 international pension insurance obviously, 844 children's allowance. I didn't go further, but that's about it. So 35,000 complaints about a first-degree solution that went to a second-degree decision and that's a terrible lot. That 3 and a half thousand said well, but it's about 35,000 pensioners who had to, or were exorcising, some kind of right, justice, justice, anything. Furthermore, you provide information on the number of cases that have been completed either in the Constitutional Court or in other courts where the charges have been brought, so that collection of these data is 3 thousand 267 administrative disputes, 3 thousand 267. If we cut that figure in half into a thousand 600, that means that Croatian courts would have a thousand 600 cases less per year only on that basis. I don't know because you didn't do it, and unfortunately neither did the board of directors seriously deal with this problem, and we're here in a position to protect the interests of the citizens and try to do everything possible to make it easier for those who exercise their rights, and that should be the work of the board that I know they do with a solid fee for that part of the job, so please tell us now or later what the problem is. Is the problem a human factor, a working officer? They don't know, they're not educated, they're not educated, they don't want to? Or the problem is, let's say, IT equipment. If the problem is the equipment then we really have to fight that you have money to buy not only hardware, but also software that will make the job easier. Either the problem is regulations or regulations. If the regulations are a problem, or cause such a large number of secondary objects, and over 3,000 200 administrative disputes, then tell us what in the laws we need to change that your people are doing easier and faster, that there are fewer secondary procedures and administrative procedures. I can't judge because I don't really know what the problem is, but please don't year by year realize that there's a lot of things that you never... causes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want to believe that you know where the causes are and that your associates at the top know the causes. If we know the causes, tell us if you or someone else can remove them, but don't go through with it anymore. So it's not just about those people's interests. It's about the height of one part of the administration, including you and the board of directors. So if it's money, tell us about IT, if the regulations are to tell which, I'll fight them here to really change that regulation then, to do as easily as possible, because people who retire and wait for a solution and pension 4, 5, 6 months can't be satisfied citizens. They're not interested in reasons, they know they're not receiving anything. The second area of your report is the portfolio of the office I want to talk to you about. 3 billion 100 million portfolios of the Pension Institute, managed by the Privatisation Fund, and they provided with these 3 billion and 100 portfolios in the last year if I'm not mistaken, i.e. first you gave consent to the sale of 10 companies, sold one, and the value of those 10 companies was 365 million. It's sold one. 9 wasn't sold obviously, if I understood correctly. The portfolio management was charged 7 million 400, of which 3 million 800 sales and 3 million 600 dividends. So 3 billion 100 portfolios, the privatisation fund has brought you 3 million 600 dividends. Very weak masters of these at the Privatisation Fund. If I were you, I'd take that portfolio and run it. It's obviously a problem somewhere, because with 3 billion 100 to make such a miserable profit, so have the consent to sell 5 companies, sell one, I don't know. So I'm interested in this claim, Mr. Director, which you're saying is that 14 million is 828 thousand, and it's about money for sales and shares or dividends. What company? Who owes you that? Who didn't pay in time? As regards the capital of the fund and the Croatian Pension Investment Company, with a value of 2 million 650, the market value of the portfolio in the capital of the fund was achieved profit 69 million 529. So give that information to the gentlemen at the Privatisation Fund to learn how to make 10 times the profit from far, far, far smaller means and value, so nearly a billion kunas. Or suggest, break up that contract with them from '99. You can transfer the funds to this fund because next year you're going to have 120 million kuna on the dividend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20824	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20825	Dear Vice President, representatives of the office, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to rationalize the time given the pace we've been set for today. In fact, I do not want to repeat what is said, I would just like to point out that this is an extremely important issue, as well as when we talked about the network, about the system of higher schools at the university, I think that, as my colleague Vidovic said, it deserves one more debate about the future policy of the pension insurance system, and that we are listing all the fates that should be listed and related to this area, I think it makes no sense. I will just point out that this is a particularly expressed question in areas where otherwise income means wages below the average of the Republic of Croatia, such as in Croatia with 30% lagging on average for decades and that, clearly, in pensions so lags on the average of the Republic of Croatia. And to move on to what I've announced that I'm not actually going to debate, but I'm going to ask a question. It is evident from the very report by the distinguished colleagues and colleagues that the regional services in the territory of the Republic of Croatia have all the counties other than Zagreb County which has some logic, because it includes the City of Zagreb and the central service, and that the only fact that the area of Croatian Zagorje is more specific area of Krapina-Zagorje County has no such exposition and that it is determined by the Statute that it should exist. However, its formation has never occurred. In addition, it should be pointed out that the material state of the space in which they work is valuable and good officials and staff of the Institute, I ask that they take it into account, I stress, extremely kindly, extremely open, is extremely helpful to anyone who appears with any problem that the conditions in which they work are unworthy of the 21st century and that they will not significantly violate the pension fund if the funds necessary for the operation of existing capacities are being invested, and that we are on the verge of what we started two years ago, and that they stand ready to solve a common space for the area service in Zabok and thus allow your people to deploy and that your service in Zagreb is being deployed, while all the users and those who need to deal with things within the Fund directly and personally have access to their hands in a more easily accessible way available and data and available service. Here, that's what I'm ending up with, and hopefully I'll be supported by the vice president who just took the chair of the session. We would like to conclude by ourselves that you will support me as well as all of us representatives from Zagorje on the realisation of the Mirovinski Insurance District Service, and hopefully Vice President Sheks, to realise this project that has been waiting for a long, long time and present need. [[/Intruder: You go on.]] I thank you once again for your cooperation and for your understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20826	Thank you very much for inviting me as much as you have so far. We're moving on. Honorable representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20827	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Director of the Office with an associate. I'm sorry I didn't get in line when he was vice president from Slavonia, so let me say something like this like a colleague lobbying with a vice president from his neighborhood, but here's a chance. I believe it will come to him. Also related to certain activities on the real estate of the Pension Insurance Institute in the war-torn areas. In particular, I will say three things about the field as the head of the executive authority in the local self-government unit, and it concerns a rather poor situation and the restoration of certain properties owned by the Institute of Pension Insurance in the Western Slavonia area by a war-torn area. Here's the town of Pakrac where I live and where the facility of retirement is really in one bad-looking state. In there, thanks to God is arranged, accessible, and is enabled to use services. That's one bad thing. I'd like to say something positive about employees in pension insurance offices where we have an extraordinary cooperation with people who work in exposures. Here I am again mentioning here a facility for the Pacrac and Lipik area which is extremely co-operated with various groups of pensioners, especially with pensioners who are entitled to pensions based on participation in the Homeland War, where a whole series of information is provided for the users of pensions that have arrived from the Homeland War where practically employees participate in the work and coordination of associations from the Homeland War when changes in the laws and rights of pensioners from the Homeland War are essential. I also have a negative experience as head of the city with an office. Here is not so long ago we asked, we asked for a list of pensioners from the area of the towns of Pakrac and Lipik from the institutions with an indication that pensioners are singled out with incomes to thousands of kunas in order to provide symbolic assistance of 100, or 200 kuna from the budget of the cities of Pakrac and Lipik precisely for those persons who have extremely small pension incomes at the end of the year. We received this list, but before that list came the invoice from the Zagreb office at 5 thousand and 400 kuna which we had to pay in advance for 20 sheets of printed list of pensioners from the area of our two cities and automatically 50 persons were denied for help from the budget that was intended for them. So please, if it is possible somehow this information that is required on the ground, and practically we are all state-owned and you are as an institution and we at city budgets in local self-government units, that each other's services, such data is not invoiced to cities at least in the field of special state care, because every invoice reduces our free resources in our budget. These are the things that happen in the field. Otherwise, all praises to this 2007 report. We hope that this will be done positively for 2008 regardless of all the economic movements of the problems in which the whole world is located and so is our country. And once again in the end, I want to congratulate you on this information and information that we have received. Third consecutive unconditionally positive opinion of the State Audit Office. In any case, I have not heard of another institution that has been given three years in a row to the State Audit Office and this testifies to one quality and fair work in your office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20828	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This morning I was present to discuss the report of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, and just the most respected representative Huška replicated to Mr Maras when there was a question of publishing another list, so I am now interested in what your opinion of these publication lists is. Would you like those lists to be published or not published? Or should I ask a different question, are those from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute right that didn't provide you with a list so they're bad or is Minister Kosor right there, and then they had good experiences or bad experiences. Here, I'm wondering if your bad experience with HZMO is what the experiences of those who seek to publish another list we talked about yesterday and the other day are like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20830	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20831	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm sorry, buddy. Here's why you didn't listen very carefully. We've got a wanted list from the Pension Insurance Office. The dissatisfaction was expressed by the team that along with that list came the invoice for its printing that we had to pay for. These data are not publicly published, these data are used to pay off one symbolic aid from the budget of the town of Pacrac and the city of Lipika before Christmas holidays and New Year's Eve. It's not for public publishing, and I don't think any pensioner who's going to get those funds has anything to do with cities having him on that list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20832	Thank you. Individual debate, we proceed. Dear Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20833	Vice President of the Parliament. So when this report is discussed then it is always a good opportunity to say something about how pensioners live or that there is a trend in pensions in Croatia but a trend in the growth of food products and the trend in energy growth. Also, Croatia is a demographically viewed country with an increasing population, which in the future will become increasingly burdened by the first pillar based on intergenerational solidarity and will therefore suffer increasing isolation and will not be able to withstand pressure in the near future and today it is already on the edge. What is our responsibility all of us is to increase the allocations by the second pillar, first by the second pillar by a reduction in the separation by the first pillar, and I hope you will support our proposal that we have set out in the parliamentary procedure to increase the allocations by the second pillar by 5% to 9% because in this year alone, I must mention, pensioners, so the pension funds in the first three quarters were at a loss of 8%. If an inflation of 6% is added to this, in fact inflation in July was 8.4%, which unfortunately cannot be avoided and cannot be avoided because of energy prices divergence and increasing food prices. On the side now, Commodites, luxury, cars, means everything that can be saved on. The fact is that because of world trends inflation will also be dominant in the future and inflation is exactly the enemy of pensions in the future, or the enemy of pension funds. The peace funds must be made through inflation in order for people in the future to have at least that money they have paid at the same level if it is at inflation level. So they have to earn over to make that money bigger, or they have to buy more for that money than inflation itself. Now, you see, we now have inflation this year, and they've slipped pension funds or secessions for the second pillar. However, since the reform, the total reform of the pension system, pension funds have increased their assets from total payments from 20 billion kuna to 21.5 billion kuna, which is somewhere between 5% and 6% a year. And that's what worries in the future, and that's what we all have to insist on together and not be happy with. And so we propose and we suggest that the level of separation into the second pillar, precisely the pillar that brings more profit in the future for the pensioners, is increased to 9% and I hope that you will support it. Because otherwise, the trend of European developed countries such as Austria, like our northern Slovenian neighbours, is that they have significantly higher pension insurance allocations close to 25-26% even compared to health insurance allocations. Today, it was read in the paper that the Government of the Republic of Croatia to repay the bonds it owed at the interest rate of 6% de facto, it was a loan, it was additionally in debt to pensioners, meaning pension funds at 8.6%. That means she's beaten the debt with a new debt in case it's added up, it's going to be at 13.6% somewhere. So, it's about the very unfavourable debt you're going to be buying, if you're raising a non-intentional loan as a citizen, and that's what's definitely worrying, and that's what the signal is, today when I read it, we really have problems and a crisis. And I hope that will not affect the liquidity of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. We have also heard a lot of speculation about this, that perhaps due to the individual debt of the central budget, it will be felt to the dynamics of retirement payments, and we would like to hear the public for the sake of the answer to the question of whether pensions will be late or whether there will be any delay in that part. But what is even more important is the lack of popularisation by the third pillar states because the third pillar, the second pillar, and in the future only the second pillar will not be enough to carry a pension at the level of the pension in which it is in developed countries. So, we'd like somewhere that when a man retires after his working life, he retires from 70% to 80% of his salary and today he's at 39%. So we need to pay our pension against some period of twenty, thirty years. How are we going to do that if we don't increase the separation by the second pillar and if we don't popularize the third pillar, I don't know. And the state here plays a key role not only through popularisation but also through the release of tax, cut and contribution to payments in the third pillar. And that's what the state needs to do. And that is the responsibility because we must not put ourselves in a position that, because of the bad decisions today, pensioners in Croatia do not live better than the pensioners today in twenty or thirty years. and what we are constantly asking and what we will constantly warn and ask the question is how in Croatia, a pensioner can survive with below two thousand kuna and with that thought I conclude my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20834	Thank you. And the individual latest application of the Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20835	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague from the Pension Insurance Office, colleagues and colleagues. So now that we've heard a lot of debates already over this report there have been a lot of commendable debates and when we discuss the situation of the pensioners about the report of the Pensions Institute for the past year we can't just be satisfied with whether the revision has highlighted some objection or not or whether we have well-listed statistical data that we can then read in one way or another. We always have to ask ourselves what the position of our pensioners is, can they live with dignity from their pension? And do Croatian pensioners live better today than they have lived in recent years? And another key question is how will Croatian pensioners live next year? These are some of the answers we're trying to find out from reports like this. What's been going on over the years is easy to compare. Unfortunately, the data isn't too good. We see a constant decline in the average pension rate that is below 39% today. When we look at that statistic from the 1990s, it started at 62%. It was 2000 to 37%. Then, in the term of the coalition government, it came to 42% and finally to 39% again. It may not seem like much of that 3%, but it's about every pensioner, 125 kuna a month, so now you can estimate whether it's a little or a lot. On the other hand, when we take the average pensioner living with 60 kunas a day, it says that money is not as small as it seems at first. I have to note that there are a lot of data in the report that say that it is not easy in Croatia in some way or that it is not easy to follow the trend of maintaining the standards of pensioners because the number of users each year or the number of pensioners each year is increasing and the number of insurance companies is falling compared to them. So that ratio that today one means 1.5 million insurance companies and the user 1,12, 1,120 thousand is certainly not favourable and it's simply not easy to follow that trend. As for the work of the Pension Insurance Office itself, I must note that, by the number of requests, it seems to me that some 80,000 applications and 87 thousand pending administrative procedures have not been resolved at the end of the year, regardless of what some demands come, of course, and at the end of the year, and then you have to transfer them to the second year. But that's about 25% of outstanding demands, which means that about 3 to 4 months of people are waiting for their request to be resolved on average, and I don't think it's a short period of time, especially since they don't have any income in that period. When we watch what happens next year, my predictions are not optimistic, and I would like to join my colleague Bernardic here these days, we hear a lot of information about whether or not they will be provided, secure pension funds. I think the statements that we're hanging from the end and that the money is not good and that such a response is the same retirement, pension leaders, the Pension Insurance Office should give today. Whether these funds and whether the funds are provided in sufficient amount to be paid would be useful to hear this, and especially what next year I believe will not be a better situation for pensioners than that the share of pensions in wages will continue to fall. What do I come to the conclusion? This I conclude from the fact that the growth of this year's contributions, that is, in 2007 compared to 2006, was about 9% earlier, which is significant. It's not that small. That's $1.6 billion. If we are aware that next year's budget will not grow that the overall economic situation will be more difficult, that the question of whether or not this level of employment will continue I think there is a major problem in maintaining pension standards and that pensions will continue to fall compared to the average wage. And there are some answers without only the essentials in the report we need to get. We need to see what the perspectives are for the next periods. As far as what I would expect from the men of the profession is to tell us what the situation is with the new pensioners right now. In particular, under quotes, we can tell new pensioners or second pillars. Many people I meet who come to me say that there are unfair differences or that pensions that are partly paid out of the second pillar are much lower than those that go the old way, and I think there is already a problem that we have to solve. And this is that it must increase the detachment from the second pillar of the gross salary so that Croatian citizens can make adequate high pensions for what they have all, throughout their working life and earn at the end of the day. And we don't have any information here either. We are here at the SDP Representatives' Club suggest that this rate rises from 5% to 9% because we believe that this will not be possible with this rate, or at this rate, that these pensions will not be high enough for pensioners who will retire and who have used the second pillar. Another fact that speaks for it is that the value of all payments or the value of all payments in the second pillar of this year has dropped drastically. It has fallen to 21 billion kuna and we need to be aware of this crisis on the world market and the crisis in the financial markets will possibly continue to affect it. No matter how secure these investments are because most of the investments are made and put into them, in those safest instruments such as government bonds. But regardless of the small part, it was enough for this year to drop a lot, which means that Croatian citizens now have less money than they had when they paid out of their gross wages. So this whole problem when we talk about this report can't just be aware of how many cases, how many people are employed, whether the review report was commendable or not, because the essence of life and people out of these pensions are living daily and we need to see how they're going to live next year. My predictions are not optimistic, but it is related to a wider story, related to the story and budget that we will receive in a few days finally here in the Croatian Parliament, so we will be able to talk about the economy, which is Croatia's strategy in these times of crisis. I'm afraid there is no strategy, and it is especially not related to Croatian pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20836	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Honorable representative of Mile Rukavina, director of HZZO. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20837	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'd just like to answer a few questions for a second. I have no intention, of course, of course, of course not, nor may I polimise it with distinguished MPs very briefly. I'll answer immediately. I don't know where that information came from, but pension funds are neither questionable nor late. It's short and clear. Secondly, there was no information related to any transactions. I don't know what this is about. As far as real pension growth data are concerned, I think the esteemed representative Vidovic mentioned it. That information is fortunately incorrect. Since 2000, when we can look at the period of new pensions or pensions under the new law have grown realistically, I'm saying 17.7%. Unfortunately, the decline was only in 2001, a real pension drop of 0.19%. As far as the problem is concerned by the second pillar, I must repeat, the Bureau is not in charge of conducting the second pillar. This is a report on the work and business of the Institute and refers to the first pillar of intergenerational solidarity. But what can contribute to the debate I can answer that mention are some examples of retirement. There were 137 of them according to our information, and those insurance people were five years old. Five years. Therefore, we cannot talk after 5 years, but after 10, 15 or 20 years and more about whether pensions from the second pillar with the first pillar are less. As regards the beneficiary of pensions from other countries, it is true that they had an additional pension at the time when payment was suspended or when no interstate contract was concluded. There's a second situation today. Of course, it is not up to the Bureau whether these users who are not customers from Croatia but from other countries will have a pension allowance or not. What I would particularly like to point out is, this is mentioned by Mr. Šišljagić and several respected representatives regarding this urgency, namely for a procedure that lasts for 30, 60 or longer days. I have to for the sake of knowledge simply because the facts are like that no matter what we do at the Bureau, of course, we try to do our job as best as possible. I have to work for the simple truth and the fact to state the following situations. In the back office for two and a half, three years we've been practically working on three fronts. We have regular jobs that you saw the requirements increase year by year, for example 12% compared to the past period. Secondly, we have an area of extraordinary jobs where I will practically try to answer the question with numbers. We had a problem with compensation to the pensioners. We've conducted 700,000 procedures. Regarding the translation of rights to Croatian defenders, there were 45,000 procedures. When it comes to supplement law, we've had 300,000 procedures. When it comes to solving the problem of members of the Croatian Defence Council, there were 16000 procedures. When it comes to novels... One, two and three, we had 100,000 procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that we've summed it up, it turns out it's like two more years, two years of requests, and you've seen 600,000 come in one year. Of course, it's not my intention to say here that we work ideally and that we can't do better. However, incorrect information is that these users are without receiving for a few, three or four months. In all cases where we can't make a final solution, and let me also point out that we have, for example, 110000 users by applying international contracts where the procedure takes an extremely long time, not only depends on us, but also on other participants in the process, especially from beneficiaries of pension funds from abroad, where all these users get a temporary solution that they receive from a temporary solution. So they're not without a receipt, and the amount of pensions per temporary solution is slightly smaller but not much compared to the final solution. At the same time, I, as director, must say one fact, is that in my term of office, when I began my term as director, I found, for example, double the length of the procedure and twice as much of the demands you have made in this period of up to 60 days. It's also a process of reconstruction and therefore it's really a process and it's not possible in one year or two years to make a dramatic shift, but I believe that this number I've just told you points out that we're really trying to make this procedure as short as possible. The Honorable representative Lesar mentioned the administrative council. The administrative board is not in the choice of jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, if I understand correctly. If I'm not sorry, it's within the jurisdiction of the Croatian government. The government is authorized to appoint a board of directors. However, in any case I do not know the Administrative Council may consider the proposal to submit a special report. I don't believe that can be a problem. Of course, the Bureau also analyses the number of complaints of administrative proceedings, and one reason is, of course, extremely complex regulations and frequent amendments to regulations that also extends the procedure in a certain way. The end of the contract with HFP was still mentioned. The contract with HF isn't in itself. It is concluded on the basis of the Privatisation Act of Article 1a. The Privatization Act. Therefore, in order to change the contract, we must change the Law on Privatisation. As far as the outpost in Zabok was concerned, it was a question. For the functioning of the facility according to our experience and according to our projections, because we put Virovitica into operation in the meantime, returned Vukovar from Borov Sela to Vukovar and of course spent huge funds for it. It is necessary to operate at an annual level of over 11 million kuna. So, according to their capabilities, the Bureau will work to put it on as soon as possible, because we are interested in Zabok functioning as soon as possible in his full function. Also, the invoice of these various lists related to pensioners was mentioned. According to the Board's decision, cities must pay, but we can put on the administrative council to consider whether these data will be free of charge for cities, not just for pensioners' associations. And I would also point out here that regarding agricultural insurance, the question is why are we analyzed. Of course, the distinguished representative Maria Petir has asked the question, of course, that we are analysing, but it is doubtless that, in practice, the number of active insurance companies is coming down because of the ageing and decomposition of the Croatian village, that this is a problem not only of the Croatian institution, but of the whole state to make sure that the number of insurance companies rise. But ultimately, these insurance companies were introduced into the system very late in 1980 by adopting the Agricultural Insurance Act, but they as well as others have the lowest pensions institute, so they are in a certain way protecting their incomes. But of course all your demands, suggestions and ideas we will consider, in our further work we will be used as a guideline to do our job as professionally as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20838	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20839	Third, Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2007, Carrier: Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, which reads: "The report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2007. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most 107 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20840	We move to the fourth item of the agenda, which is - Annual Report for 2007. Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency The Reporter is the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. This report shall be submitted in accordance with the provisions of Article 21. Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government delivered an opinion. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ante Samodol, President of Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20841	Fourth, Annual Report 2007 Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, Reporter: Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting in line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, which reads: "The Annual Report 2007 is accepted. Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by a majority of 76 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 36 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20842	We are going to the following point: - Report on the audit of financial reports and the business of political parties and independent representatives for 2007. Applicant: State Audit Office Proposer State Audit Office who submitted this report on the basis of Article 11. State audit law and Article 20 The law on the financing of political parties of independent lists and candidates. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was held: the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Chief State Auditor Sima Krasic will further explain the report. Here you go. Stupid question? [[/Intruder: Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20843	Not stupid. Reasonable and smart. How long are we going to do this point tonight and then the point? And tomorrow we start a new There's only so much to know. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20844	It is. Excuse me, I heard this a little bit first.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20845	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. Here is the first report of the State Office for Auditing Financial Reports and Business of Political Parties and Independent Representatives. The audit refers to 2007. By the end of 2006, the financial operations of political parties were prescribed by the Political Party Act, and according to those provisions, the political party was obliged to keep business books and to draw up financial reports in accordance with the rules on non-profit institutions. They were also obliged to draw up financial reports and deliver them to the Assembly Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the State Audit Office. The State Audit Office had an obligation to carry out audits, to examine whether they had been drawn up in accordance with the legal provisions and to draw up a brief report. At the same time, I must stress that every year the State Audit Office carried out a review of the Government Office for General Affairs, which at the time made the schedule of these funds on the basis of the schedule of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and that we audited those funds, because the parties were obliged to submit expenditure reports to the Committee. Until then, it has not been decided that independent representatives will keep business books, and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system has concluded that it has committed to keep business books in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation and the Regulation on non-profit institutions. Since the beginning of 2007, the way in which political parties, independent lists and candidates, financial business, and the supervision of the law have been regulated by the Law on the financing of political parties. Compared to earlier legal provisions, the new law makes it clear that the rights and obligations of political parties relating to the collection of funds from different sources – the issue of certificates of receipt of funds from grants and memberships, the prohibitions of funding and concessions, the keeping of records and the public display of origin and the means of spending, the publication of financial reports and the final account on the websites, and the obligation to deposit in the state budget of all anonymous donations and donations above the prescribed amounts for legal and natural persons. According to the provisions of Articles 17 and 20 of that law, the supervision of the financial operations of political parties is carried out by the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance Tax Administration. Surveillance is carried out in the first half of each calendar year for the previous year. The report on the supervision carried out, i.e. for the State Audit Office in the revision of the financial operations of political parties and independent representatives financed from the state budget, was submitted by the State Audit Office to the Croatian Assembly by law. There is no set deadline within which time limit, therefore we delivered it within the time period when we were obliged to make those audits. In view of the importance of supervision, the audit and inspection activities of the Office relate to the tasks of the audit of financial reports and business involving the work and internal organisation, planning and overall business, financial reports and the accounts, and the revenues and expenditures of political parties and independent representatives. In early 2008 all the political parties that were obliged to do so submitted financial reports to the office for 2007. It is important here to note that 102 political parties are registered in the Republic of Croatia, that financial reports are drawn up and delivered by only those parties that make revenues above a certain limit established by the rules on non-profit institutions, which was over 2 and a half thousand euros in kuna equivalent by 2008. And since 2008, more than 100,000 kunas of income and property. On the basis of these limits, the report provided all 15 parliamentary parties and 14 outside parliamentary parties as well as all other audits to the State Audit Office. So far, the revision of the financial reports and business of political parties and independent representatives has been carried out in the same way and according to the procedures set out in the State Audit Act, international standards benefiting from the State Audit and the Code of Professional Ethics. The objectives of the audit were to verify the truthfulness, credibility of financial reports, to verify the application of laws and other regulations relating to the organisation of financial operations, to verify the regularity of the acquisition of revenue from the budget, voluntary revenues, membership fees, and other sources and to verify the correctness of the implementation of expenditure, or whether the funds were used exclusively to achieve the objectives of the programme and the statutes as set out in the law. For the purposes of achieving those objectives, the audit procedures cover financial reports, accounts. It is a list of assets and liabilities, acquisitions of income, execution of expenditure, and a special emphasis on the publication of data on websites listed in that law. This report also includes individual, comprehensive reports carried out in the audit by authorised state auditors for 15 parliamentary parties and 19 independent representatives with a total of 541 pages. Reports have been published to the Parliament's web pages until the debate is over. Then the State Audit Office puts them on its website. In this introduction, I will only briefly provide a few basic data on financial operations by revising the parties covered and the independent representatives in 2007. Total party revenues amounted to 184 million 93 thousand 885 zeroes of seven kunas. The state budget generated 93 million 975 304 or 51.05%. From the budget of local units 28 million 157 thousand 843 38 or 15.30%. The fees were 5 million 362 415 34, which is 2.91%. A donation of 31 million 122 thousand 127 kuna and 16 limes, which is 16.9%. And from all other sources 25 million 476 194, which may be from the sale of assets, of any activity, economic, economic or publishing, etc. The expenditures of the parties amounted to 215 million 811 thousand 908 kuna and 32 June. Of which for services 140 million 96,000 526 or 64.9%, and of these services 97 million 288 thousand 460 or 92% for promotion services. This is clear because it was an election year and that the promotion was spent most on these funds. For employees of 17 million 973 512 43 or 8.17%. It follows further for material and material expenditures 7 million 618 134 30 or 3,53% Energy 2 million 416 354 47 or 1,12, immaterial expenditures 17 million 145 963 64, i.e. 7,94% and all others mentioned 30 million 561 417. The total revenues of parliamentary parties amounted to 184 million, according to 0.93 and expenditures of 215 million, which is more than 31 million 718 023. These expenditures were settled by borrowing some parties, some of which had surpluses of revenue from previous years, which we checked in their financial reports whether it was also the funds achieved in 2008, so there were no uncovered expenditures left. The revenues of nine independent MPs amounted to 4 million 319 thousand 451 thousand 38. From the state budget 3 million 627 429 or 84%, donations 151 thousand 148 or 3.50%, and from other sources 540 thousand 872 thousands or 12.50%. The expenditure of independent deputies amounted to 3 million 973 146 thousand, and that is also the highest service of 2 million 23 thousand 103 kuna or 51%. Of which for promotion, i.e. for services of a million 450 thousand 604 and 16 kuna. Also for employees because some had employees was 159 thousand 704 92, for material 83,000 609 32, for energy 8 thousand 907, immaterial expenditures 778 thousand 557 kuna and other expenditures 919 thousand. Independent MPs made revenue as I said, 4 million 300, spending 3 million 970 thousand and extra income over expenditures is 346 thousand 305 kuna. However, not all MPs have made extra income, some of which are a lack of certain revenues. Representatives who made the surpluses of revenue, so they did not spend the funds, and they stopped being representatives in the Croatian Parliament, one of them returned those funds to the budget already at 12 months, we gave the representative an order not to refer to, and all those who continued to act politically can use the funds for their political activity. Likewise, one representative had not supplied the data. After the subsequent data delivered, it turns out that it is minus, so we'll check that data and see if it's in excess of income according to our data. The most significant areas in which audits have identified irregularities and failures in political parties relate to planning, accounting operations, money, income acquisition, expenditure execution, and for independent representatives refer to planning and accounting operations. In accordance with the audit standards and in accordance with normal practice, the institutions of the state audit have drawn up opinions on financial reports and the business of political parties and independent representatives on the basis of the facts established. For political parties, one unconditionally and 14 conditional opinions have been expressed, and for independent representatives, 3 unconditional, 5 conditional and 1 abstentions. The abstention is given in a situation where we don't have documents, when we don't have the documentation, we can't determine what the funds are spent in. It is important here to note that, of all the audits of the political parties covered and the independent candidates, we have requested that, within 60 days, they be made known in writing about the activities undertaken, the removal of the gaps, the correction of irregularities. All political parties, 15 and 4 independent MPs, delivered a written statement showing that they had initiated procedures to correct certain irregularities. I would also like to point out, and you saw from our report that there were 65 irregularities in political parties and 13 in independent lists. However, there have been audits and certain, I will not say irregularities, but those that are defaulting, so that one party has paid a surplus donation of 195 thousand kuna in the budget. We gave a foreigner a warrant because there was no donation from an unknown person to pay 11,000 370 kuna, and we also have a situation that was not published, but they are known donors so that we tried to resolve this situation there, which is because these are situations that have to be published on the donor list websites, the amount of donations and so on. You all know that the law requires that natural persons can pay up to 90 thousand kuna, legally up to a million kunas. Also, Article 15 of the Law has been said to prohibit certain donations. Banning donations from legal strangers and so on, natural persons. We had, one payment was made by a legal person, she was paid into the state budget. Also, one person physically paid more and was paid into the state budget. So everything that's been paid, something's been paid before us, and something, it's totaled about 363,000 370 kuna, so. The State Audit Office and the Tax Administration are obliged by this Law on Political Parties to, and certain criminal sanctions are prescribed to file criminal charges for everything they claim was not in conformity with that law. However, I must say that we are bound by the Law on the financing of political parties, and the tax administration has other regulations under which the General Tax Law, the Tax laws on income tax, income tax and the rest of us are not in that section of the report. And I did one small maybe one analysis of the irregularities we found in the political parties. We also gave lawyers to see if there were any violations, in which cases they would be able to file criminal charges and so on. According to the Law on the financing of political parties, it is precisely stated when it is considered that, if no membership records are kept, if no donor records are kept, if they are not issued certificates for each other, if no business books are kept, unless a financial report, final account, sources of income, especially donors, etc., is published on the website, that we have all established this. But I have to say out loud here, it's not said within what time. The most irregularity is that no financial reports have been published on web sites, no deadline has been published within which they have to do so. I therefore believe that we will agree, it is an analysis of the Law on Political Parties in this task force itself and I, so I will probably give my part of the contribution in that part and we will see everything that was not clear to us, we will try to build it into the law. So that not all those who have not revealed it, but those who have not revealed it. Therefore, we are now trying to see with a criminal court the irregularities of which should be reported. And if you really find that it will be... We will file criminal charges in all cases where we have a basis, or where we believe that this procedure could be initiated. [[You don't understand.]] Of the 65 irregularities that had political parties, 58 of them were not sanctioned, because we always ask that, and they refer to reports, consolidation, the list of assets, obligations and claims, the relationship and development of the financial plan. These are all provisions that need to be respected in order for accounting to be neat, up-to-date, and true, but there are no sanctions prescribed and we are asking for it to be done that way. And those irregularities are in political parties 7, it's keeping business books, keeping records of memberships from total publication on websites. I repeat that most refer to the non-disclosure of data on the website, etc. As for the independent MPs, 9 of them, there are 13 irregularities, 6 not sanctioned. They're referring to not keeping business books. However, the law in the article does not know, 22 I think he told me that if someone, a political party does not keep a business book that is a violation and does not publish it on the website, however, independent representatives are only told if they do not publish it. Therefore, we will most likely try to bring it into line in the future, too, etc. Of the sanctioned 6 irregularities, mainly related to non-disclosure and use of funds, the law says beyond the programmes and plans of independent deputies. We, the law prescribed that the funds must be used in accordance with the programmes and statutes. However, the Accounting Regulation is non-profit and the Budget Act says that the financial plans we asked for must also be drawn up, because according to the financial plan it is possible to know, etc. and it was very difficult for us to determine whether the funds were spent in accordance with the programmes of independent representatives even of political parties, because we had little interest in making these programmes work when the political party registered that they had to see that it was political action, etc. We tried to see if it was in function, it was in the function of, say, a representative doing his jobs, etc. Here's what would be brief on these findings. I'd like to ask all of you if there's anything unclear, we'll try to answer that. I can generally say that given that the first revision, that I as here's the head of the audit I'm very pleased with, because maybe they're better audits than anywhere else where we first came from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20846	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? For the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? Does the Government's representative want to explain the government's additional opinion? State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, right? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20847	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Auditor, state's with associates, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is a brief sentence on the report on the financial report on political parties' business and independent representatives for 2007. The SDP counseling club to say right away, we'll support the State Audit report. We believe that it has been done in a quality way and we believe that the entry into the business of political parties is a big step forward and a democratic step in Croatia, and in some ways we can welcome the whole work that has been done. As you know, the auditor said, political parties have so far had the obligation to publish reports, their annual reports on websites, or to submit these reports to the Parliament, or to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure at the level of the year. They probably all did, but for the first time, the revision now determines whether these data are correct, or whether these data are shown in the way they should be displayed. We also believe that the law under which the audit process was carried out, i.e. the business of political parties, should be completed because political parties should be what they should say to be seen as an example of business when it comes to spending budget money. We feel that the law needs to be changed and that there are some things to be done, and I mean, first of all, at the cost of the campaign. You know that we have for the presidential elections a special way of managing campaign costs and it is an obligation to keep campaign costs in a special account. We believe that for parliamentary elections in this way, the same way should be guided by campaign costs so that there are no questions at times from NGOs as much as is spent, whether it has been spent throughout the year and whether it has been spent only in the election campaign. What I am pleased to say is that the SDP reported campaign costs confirmed by the state audit report three days before the elections themselves. So, in some ways, what we're asking for in the law to change, we've already applied ourselves in practice. As far as the other side is concerned, we also think that it would be necessary to limit the cost of the election, i.e. the cost to which campaigns could be spent. Whether to put on a limit is, or to put on a certain limit, but how much that limit should be, it is for discussion, because we will have a situation that we will go towards the Americanisation of elections, or that the costs of each campaign will be increasing and higher. Whether we want such a system and whether we want Croatian citizens to ask themselves before each election why hundreds of millions of kunas were spent on the campaign and whether we want those who have more funds, to which the funds are more available, to say from the position of the party that I think had a decent cost campaign. Do we want this to be a given advantage in the campaign itself, I don't think we want to. I think that it should definitely bring the campaign to some reasonable extent, the way that all parties can present their programme, not to be a criterion, or to not be an advantage to anyone whether they can spend 50, 70 or 100 million kuna. And a third thing, which we believe should be changed in law. I agree, these things that the auditor said will not particularly point out, but there are some things that are not sanctioned, and should be, in particular, regarding the conduct of the accounting business of the parties, but we believe that there is a need to reduce the donations of individual persons and natural persons, i.e. legal persons. You know that now the limits per million kuna for legal persons, 90 thousand kuna for individuals. I think those amounts are too large and they can be smaller. Honestly in the practice of funding, I suppose all parties are interested in the parties to raise some money, but to make these donors, supporters, eventually voters as much as possible. In many foreign countries, we have examples where even for individuals physically immodest, 90 thousand kuna is really big money. On the other hand, one million kunas, we also think it must be less. When it comes to a concrete report, I am now not going to enter into how many mistakes there are, what opinions are conditional, unconditional, or whether someone has not passed the review test. I think the conditional opinion can also be one way or the other, and it ranks, that maybe the segmentation should be a little bit wider. A conditional opinion may be given when you look at reports with one failure that does not have to be so important for business, and on the other hand you can make a major failure and get a conditional opinion again, so it is unclear how any party has done business, or whether it can be segmented there. Maybe, I know there's another law, but maybe you should change those laws to make it more realistic to understand how the party did business and how the law was followed. But even when we talk about these failures, the parties may have been in a slightly better position, since they were doing business as organizations. They had already had some fixed and procedures and the way business events were recorded, collected documentation, and it is not surprising that independent MPs have a lot of failures. I think that should be done in a way to put in place the obligation for MPs to hire professionals who in some way would help them to record these costs in a better way, i.e. that the accounting part of the job can be better done in the end. In the end, we think that 184 million kuna, although not everything from the state budget is not a small amount of money, that we can say that here's our system of party financing, we think it's better than it's more funded from private sources. In particular, you all know that the law defines a certain amount that the parties have the right to obtain from the state budget and local units, and we believe that such funding is better than that amount, that the parties have to rely more on private sources, or we advocate that, that is, so on. a Swedish model where the public source needs to be made available as much as possible. Of course, how realistic it is and how much it takes to fund the parties. These 184 million kunas are important to spend transparently, the Croatian public has the right to know, every kuna, every single piece of information that has been spent, how money has been made, and we believe that this revision and this report is a step forward and that the following reports must be based on data and business analysis only better and better. Here's the short one. I thank Mrs Krasic and her team for the audit. The business was, or co-operation was correct and I think the audit did a quality job and I hope that's how it's going to be in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20848	Thank you very much. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20849	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Chief State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club accepts, i.e. there is no comment on the report on the audit of financial reports and the business of political parties and independent representatives for 2007. I would also point out that since the beginning of 2007, the way in which the political parties are made available is financial business, and the supervision of financial operations, of course, already mentioned in the Law on the financing of political parties of independent lists and candidates, which is certainly in the very practice of financing and the way in which these reports are encouraged, and on this segment and one specific or specific type of work and state audit, of course, one newspaper. It is precisely the provisions of that law and in that part relating to both voluntary contributions and the prohibitions of funding and the possibility of bargaining, and supervision of financial transactions refer to both the segment and the political parties, but also apply to independent lists and candidates. It is also noted that this revision is therefore also carried out by the financing and business of the political parties of independent representatives compared to the observed year 2007, both in the manner and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Law on State Audit, but I am particularly emphasising both the accepted audit standards and the code of professional ethics of the state auditors. In this sense, it is made up of both professional and quality. Therefore, it shows to what extent the financial report which has been analysed objectively shows the financial position and financial activity, and gives the answer to the question whether the business of political parties and independent representatives has been carried out in accordance with the positive legal rules during the observed period. If we just analyze the report, I think from its contents we should highlight this particular part. In this observed time period, namely, 24 entities, 15 political parties and 9 independent representatives were covered by the revision. Financial reports and business reports for 2007, 19 or 79.2% of conditional opinions, 4 or 16.6% of unconditional opinions, and one and 4.2% of abstentions, respectively. Unfavourable opinions are not expressed, and the abstention of the opinion is expressed in audit entities which have not submitted financial reports and documentation in business. I think it's important in this place, and also given these assessments that we have in this report, to mention once again that the conditional opinion is, in fact, that kind of opinion when there's doubts about one or more positions in financial reports that are significant, but not decisive. I repeat, it is not decisive to understand financial reports, i.e. if business has not taken place to a lesser extent in accordance with the legal rules. The abstention of the opinion is also expressed, i.e. when significant ambiguities in the financial reports or in the limits of the scope of the audit take them in general cannot express a different opinion on financial reports and business. It is also noted that the report itself shows which are the most specific or most frequent irregularities that have occurred in terms of the application of the law itself, i.e. irregularities in terms of irregularities in certain segments of the functioning, i.e. financing of political parties and independent advocates most striking. However, all these irregularities, the State Audit Office has not only noticed, but it has also ordered that these irregularities be removed with the insistence that all entities, of course, are obliged to comply with the rules governing their financial operations, but that the indication of these irregularities in a certain sense of failure by the State audit has its additional weight, and we have heard in the opening statement that certain ambiguities in terms of sanctions or regulation of sanctions within the law itself, there is a justification therefore for one analysis of this law, the Law on the financing of political parties, and that all entities involved in this process, and in fact it is one procedure to control the financing of political parties and independent representatives of outcomes or to find more colourful solutions so that all these irregularities can be corrected. Finally, after reading the report, there is indeed a need to improve the system of financing of parties and independent candidates, and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports all those proposals that go towards making a first-line analysis of the Law on the financing of political parties in order to improve certain legal institutes in the sense of their application, thus eliminating any ambiguities and irregularities that have arisen or may arise in the context of the application of this law. Under all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club supports this report, i.e. there is no comment on the State Audit report on financing and financial reports and business of political parties and independent representatives for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20850	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20851	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Mrs. Krasic, distinguished gentlemen of the council. Mrs Krasic may not be aware of it herself, but she said one thing, I dare say, an anthological sentence, and I quote the last thing she said about this speaker, about this report, "That maybe these audits are better than any one where the State Review first entered," from word to word, I was quoting. I know critics of Croatian parliamentarianism will not record it, but I dare say this Parliament is what Croatia has best. Secondly, clearly as all my predecessors have said, what Croatia has best. That's what I'm gonna say. I didn't say we were one of the best Parliaments, but the best Croatia has. It is clear that this report should be welcomed, too, to express dissatisfaction that only parliamentary parties have been analysed, and not those acting only at local level. It is also necessary to express the surprise of why the so - called action is not audited. independent lists, even though we understand the independents, it's clear to all of us. They are independent of cover, and, as a rule, there are people of clear political orientations. It is necessary to express the infidelity of why the so-called "revision" is not revised. Citizens' associations, to see how these associations of citizens who give lessons to all of us are being funded, and they generally or increasingly become only exponents of capital. True, I know there are gaps in the work of parliamentary parties, but I dare say, we are still little babies towards anyone else. For example. Let's say according to Croatian radio television, if for nothing else, and then because the budgets of our parties are all expressed by 184 million kuna, and the budget of Croatian Radio Television is worth 1 billion and 500 million kuna and their system is falling apart. And it should also be published I would say union audits or these centres so the public would be shocked, for example, if they found out that the Croatian railways had 102 trade unionists, so-called. Management contracts, that also has an average salary of 12 thousand and 500 kuna, clearly secured parking, severance from 150 to 200 kuna, journals when leaving town and going to another city and not counting further. It's clear that none of us here, even if we're not there, are a lot of us not naive. We all know about each and every one of us but also about each and every one of us knows those who judge us. I also want to say in Croatia it can't be a secret, it's a country of 4.5 million people and it's clear that we all know each other that way. It is also known that on Croatia's radio-television 2 hundred people receive higher incomes from Croatian ministers, for example that one "Green Istria" in Istria has a budget almost as close as the IDS, it is known also that it is a unionist position, that they are in a better position than the prime minister or president of the state, that they are all in two, three supervisory committees, clearly in those better paid not in those worse or where they work without compensation. We also know who sells articles to certain media, television. So it is clear that there can be no room for avoiding the truth in Croatia. I also hope that the tax number will come soon so that you can see who owns it, when it came to that and clearly how it came to that. It's clear, I don't think the parties are sinless, that we're purest, I don't think we're days of God, but I repeat, there are opportunities better, I would say maybe than anywhere else and it shows this report amongst other things. Why is that? Because the public controls us 100%. Media, let's let the good part of them be privatized. Journalists, let's let every columnist have a higher salary than the prime minister or president of the state, I won't judge the HRT people, but we're normally controlled by the citizens of this country every day. The exception may be let's say those parties that sort of exercise power. We stand here a little differently, they deal with a little opposition, they set up, they change, they take one word of it, and those who do the state's audit and, of course, they're in a better position. That's also true. They may also have an impact on the media, as do the tycoons, who, I'm talking about the media now, are directly paying some editors to do something about their political or business engagement. It is also clear that those who are in power at some point control over half of the gross social product. But if, for example, five of the biggest merchants control 54% of the retail trade, ten of the biggest, say, 75% of the retail trade, then these 10 traders, here I don't count on the Tizak owned by Konzum, EPH, Adris. They can if they want to bring down any government within two, three months only by raising prices and causing inflation. And that's what I'm trying to say. All parties are not the same. Not the same ones that were inherited by hundreds of millions of kunas in real estate, here I mean the property of the Union of Communists of Croatia. I repeat, that's why we can't all be the same. The HDZ, on the other hand, thought the creation of a tycoon would govern them forever, but they emancipated what you would do after 15 years of being so that they would no longer listen as they had listened to them before, knowing that nothing could simply happen to them anymore. Now there's a question of where to go in this audit report. I'll start with the IDS. Of course, there are gaps in us, too. I didn't know we made more than 165 thousand kuna, I didn't know we had a million $180,000 worth of wages, that's three terms here in the Parliament. Of the membership fees, clearly we can't live, that's 65 thousand kuna in us. What do you spend money on, say, IDS? It's mostly for elections, 2 million and 500 thousand kuna. Of course, it's big money. But be careful, IDS didn't have any paid ads on Croatian Radio TV for last parliamentary elections, we didn't have any ads on RTL, on New TV, exclusively on regional media, and it was clearly a mistake. And it was a mistake, I admit it. Now imagine those who covered it all as much as they needed money. And clearly, without money, there's no more success. It's one terrible truth, but it's true. If you have in mind but no one wants to review that we in IDS Croatian Radio-Television knowingly boycotted in the presentation and that out of ten IDS shows was represented only in one of those dealings. It also has its background. If the mandate is a criterion, it cannot happen that those who are worse represented in parliament receive more space in these pre-election shows. The second thing I want to say on this page for seven days is a table of advertising funds, HDZ 20.3 million kuna, SDP 11.2, HNS 3.5, HSS 2.9, HSP 2 million kuna, HSU 950 thousand kuna, IDS million and 500, SDSS 950 thousand kuna. There's no way anyone can get a term without money anymore. It just became true and over. And I claim that small parties have shown almost everything, but on the other hand, almost everything, I haven't said everything, and on the other hand I doubt the big ones have shown everything. From the budget of the Republic of Croatia, they receive 93 million kuna. Out of the membership fees all the parties in this country, what the report shows are getting only 5.3 million kuna, but for the first time, they are starting to arrive at more significant donations 31.1 million kuna and this is the course of the election. The question now arises whether these donations should be reimbursed, whether these donations should be returned to the service. Someone's gonna say yes, someone's gonna say no. How this works should be asked clearly by the executive authority and those who donate them. On the other hand, if someone is guarding your monopoly, it doesn't matter on cigarettes or anything else, if you're not charging him for tourist land, if something is privatized to you, you know how. If you get a favourable bill and so on for a million, two, three, five million kunas, then it must be the best investment in that political option that can be held by the government the next day. But all the parties together in 2007, they made it happen, and it was an election year, so a brother needs to be taken away from his brother about 50 million kunas, 184 million kunas. Croatia's radio-television revenues, I said before, amounting to a billion and 500 million kuna. And then a man asks himself a question where is power, where is money and so on? Well, clearly, money and power in capital is in executive power and in these national media. I repeat, the grotesque party in this country is as miserable as a church mouse. And that mystification to the public needs to be broken once. Clearly in a different position are parties that can behave in power. They're the strongest in this country. These, I don't know, HDZ because they're in power. These other SDPs might be about property. Otherwise HDZ has an electoral expenditure of €92.2 million, SDP 52.5, HNS 18.4 million, HSS 17.1, HSU 5.4, IDS 5.5, HSLS 4.2 million. Out of these 184 million kunas for the advert in 2007 went 97.2 million kuna. 50% of all income. So 50% of the money goes for the commercial. I claim it's more going means directly how to express myself for the election. As far as these independent MPs are concerned, they're clearly in a more valuable situation. Clearly there is nothing to justify to anyone, any correctness clearly does not justify anyone. But except for one party that owns, I'm sorry, in my possession to say so, it has a significant property none of the political parties have any space at this time, no apartment, let alone what I know is some business space of which can earn some significant amount. Only one political party is in that position according to this report. Maybe it's not fair you'd say Kalimer, but what do we do? We're not all the same, and we can't be. On the other hand we see here HDZ leads double accounting but what is there is, is not ideal, but when it comes to money and everything should be prescribed... parties that really have money and we have this one to express myself so politically. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After these elections, it will be or is even more pronounced because incomes are reduced to all but HDZ and SDP and only the independent ones remain the same. To end what do you say? Money is power. The money depends on how many posters you'll have? Will you be on TV so you can advertise some of your own video? Will you be able to arrange a meeting, pay for an ad? And it may be necessary to start thinking that these costs are limited and that audits, auditors enter parties and themselves and before elections. What's going to happen is that maybe those who might be the worst of all of us will. those who participated in the conversion of '91, the second, the third, and so on at the time of the war, as a rule, when the blood was poured out tomorrow to become our moral authority and political so as to say pillars like one of our assembly representatives says, "I am against pensions" and that you got a billion kuna property is nothing. All in all this report is a major contribution to parliamentaryism but I also ask you to review both associations and trade unions and to the rich and media.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20852	And she said, "Not everything is in the cups. Vote for" How's that? The HSS club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. [[Intruder: HDZ.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20853	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Auditor, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me first of all thank the State Office for the review of the arrival and financial review of the business of the party and the shown failures in our work on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party. Although the first arrival of the State Audit Office is a major help in removing the gaps but more importantly, it is a major contribution to changing public perception in the work of political parties. We believe that the perception of the public over the coming years will change significantly in a positive sense on the work of political parties, which, to a large extent, will also give its contribution to future audit findings because I am convinced that there will be fewer and fewer shortcomings in them each year. The audit established in its review a certain degree of true and objective financial operations by the party in order to verify the truthfulness and credibility of financial reports as well as the regularity of income acquisition and expenditure regularity. One of the reasons for carrying out the audit is the establishment and use of financial resources exclusively for the implementation of a party's work programme based on the Statute of the Party. In the debate, I will try only to point out some specific examples without the intention of justifying some of our failures that have been observed. And that's why we have to ask ourselves some questions. What is the political party's work programme? What does he come from? How permanent and to what extent is he subject to constant and frequent changes? The political party's work programme must not be seen as a programme of the work of a non-profit association of citizens or a sports association in which a particular place and time calendar and competition participants can be used to provide for the necessary financial resources. The political party's work programme largely assumes possible events over the year and can be drawn up but also major deviations from the programme are possible. The programme in question does not have to be achieved because of certain political circumstances and other unforeseen social events that the political party cannot influence. In such circumstances, it is clear that the findings of the State Audit Office will also point to certain irregularities as the costs incurred under the work programme have been spent on something other than planned or spent in accordance with the resulting or emerging need. What are these situations? Examples are extraordinary elections in one of the municipalities, the city or the county. What political party can put such events into its programme because more than 550 municipalities and cities are taking part in certain processes that often lead to the need to hold early elections as a result of certain circumstances as a final activity. This example shows that the party's work plan depends on a number of elements which cannot be predicted and which cannot be affected, because the work plan in our country is not a mere collection of certain events to which the financial resources can be planned, which means the political party's work programme is nevertheless a specific programme and is in a way subject to permanent changes, and I am convinced that this fact will be respected in its future reviews and the Office of State Audit. The public perception is that political parties are corrupt and that corruption is largely taking place in political parties. My intention is to point out one detail of the findings where we have seen a certain failure, and it is to complete the payment for the monthly membership fee of 2 and a half kuna. It is clearly seen here that the costs of the payment of its fulfillment and its production are greater than 2 and a half kuna and it is irrefutable that this amount cannot actually be the source of corruption. I will point to another detail, i.e. the third failure that we are told is the non-cendiation of the monument to Stjepan Radic, built in the city of Zagreb, owned by HSS, i.e. as a basic asset. The creation and setting of monuments was financed by the party's membership, placed a monument on the public surface of the citizens of Zagreb as well as citizens of the entire Republic of Croatia. We believe that the process of recording monuments should not be the same as with other basic means of working an example of computer, furniture or any other equipment used daily, and this is an example that speaks of specificities in the work of political parties that we believe in the next findings State review will respect and take into account in assessing the work of political parties and thus contribute to the perception and attitudes of citizens in the work and action of political parties. The reports produced by the party provided an accurate, true and reliable overview of the source of the funds and revenue and expenditure, thus meeting the conditions laid down in the Accounting Regulation as well as other legal regulations. We believe that the next findings of the Audit Office next year will determine fewer work gaps. I am sure that some will be disappointed because these reports say that the parties, or in particular the HSS, are not the place of corruption and illegal work. I hope that the public perception of the work and business of the parties will also change in a positive direction, based on the findings of the Audit Office. We thank the State Office for reviewing the correct co-operation and the shortcomings in our work and the Croatian Peasant Party eventually removed the shortcomings mentioned in the 2007 audit report, and the Croatian Peasant Party Club supports the report on the audit carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20854	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20855	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Krasic and his associate. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I would like to welcome first and foremost this first presentation of the results of the work of reviewing the business of political parties and independent representatives. The fact that the model of funding we have chosen is that, according to this model, the parties are mostly financed from the budget. This report also confirms that in 2007, around 94 million were paid from the state budget, which is about half of the political party's revenues. If we add to this thirty million kunas that the parties have received from the budget of local units, it is clear that 2/3 of the political party's revenues are financed from the budget, the budget of our citizens, and that fact itself requires the need to discuss this report in the Croatian Parliament as well. To understand this large report, it is important to point out that this is the first year when political parties had to comply with their business with the new Financial Business Act, party business. The audit report confirms this because all political parties received a conditional opinion with the exception of the IMF of the Međimurje Democratic Party. The fact is that parties in walking by reshuffle are trying with less or more success to deal with and the tasks set before them by the new law. And here I would ask the reporter of the report to explain to me in more detail what the specific meaning of what is the threshold of significance. This report mentions the setting of this threshold as a percentage, but nowhere mentions the percentage, or anywhere in the review, of the business of political parties, of which the percentage of their reports contain the wrong statements. Because of this fact, the debate on the revision of the business of all political parties can only be about or better said than the eye. In fact, we have not set the threshold of significance, and no political party has expressed a percentage of the wrong statements. Furthermore, this report shows that all parties have wrong statements, that the errors observed are different from the party to the party, and that the percentage of the wrong statements is very different. This Regulation shall enter The Financial Business Act of the Parties states that parties, political parties are bound by final accounts and the financial report to announce that these data are public and that they are obliged to publish them on websites, on their websites. But it doesn't say anywhere within what time. And our next practice is easily possible that at a time when your associates will come or ask that question that the answer and the parties will be here right now we put it on the website, so I think it would be good for that reason to set that deadline. Speaking of deadlines and in Article 20, Article 20 tells us that the review report will be submitted to the Croatian Assembly. However, there is no deadline there, and we believe that the Croatian Parliament should also be defined, meaning to define the deadline until the State Audit Office has delivered the results of the financial operations of political parties to the Croatian Assembly. This report refers to the election year and the report shows that the total amount financed by the political parties in the budget is multiplely higher than when it is not an election year and that fact again updates the issue of the adoption of the Law on the financing of the election campaign as well as the need and necessity of overall systemisation, the harmonisation of the entire electoral legislation. I would particularly like to emphasise, and this report has also confirmed the real reasons for the existence of independent representatives in the observed time of the report, colleague Lesar and their functional funding at the time. The problem is now resolved and blocked by changes to the Law on Political Party Financing and the abuse of the status of independent advocate for the interests of the ruling majority has been disabled. The fact itself, and the report shows that a significant difference has been identified, which should be pointed out in particular, a significant difference in the business of minority representatives and independent representatives. Namely, the largest number of unconditional estimates were obtained by minority representatives, unlike mostly conditional assessments received by independent representatives. Finally, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, I want to support this report and the Croatian People's Party club will vote yes on this report. I also want to say in the end, I will not say dissatisfaction, but it would be good if the parties were individually ranked percentageally in the level of the failure of their reports so that the regularity of the financial business and of the Croatian People's Party came more strongly into expression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20856	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20857	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I would simply say that the State Audit report is actually a report on us here in the assembly, that is, about us politicians, and that is an opportunity for the Croatian Parliament to have insight, control in spending public money, and the law is the business of political parties, but it is also an opportunity for citizens to see problems and to draw some conclusions from that report in order to improve the legality of the business of political parties in the future. This conclusion also led me to the circumstance that the state's audit is very precise inconclusive and inconsistencies of the law or the law on the financing of political parties. I would illustrate that on two examples. Not only does there not have a deadline for publication on the website of the financial business parties, but the law has no obligation for parties to specifically express the financing of promotional campaigns. Therefore, it is concluded that the discrimination or discrimination in the finding of state audits is based on accounting and accounting documents and really spent costs in the election promotion, in the election campaign, and therefore should be corrected by the law to control the spending of political parties' financial resources, but also the actual costs in the election campaign entrusted to an independent body in real political time when it happens. Since we already have the State Election Commission, why didn't we in law predict that the State Election Commission controls the financing of election campaigns and the actual costs in election campaigns and financial and promotional materials, and then when it does, then we can talk about who spent the money and who got the sponsorships from which sources. If we are already opposed to sponsoring, and I think it would be good because in Croatia political parties are a constitutional category, so the Constitution protects Croatia from opting for the full financing of public money political parties, by limiting the costs of electoral promotion and the costs of the overall political parties, depending on their influence in Parliament, whether in local or regional communities. As I took the floor and waited to say it, I noticed something else that could be a source of illegal business, which is that the law left the possibility that political parties could donate, co-finance, sponsor from abroad and from non-citizens of the Republic of Croatia. No one has yet explained why it remained in the law, and if we were to be naughty, and it is possible that there are bad people in Croatia, I can say that this was left for money laundering because the financing of political parties is possible from sister parties and trusts, but why would it be possible to finance, which is a political interest for a citizen of Germany, France, Austria and Switzerland to donate a political party to the Republic of Croatia. There is no such interest or can't be explained by logical treatment. The third thing I wanted to say was that the political parties in my court should have a very precise division of financial business when it comes to the so-called. the cold drive to pay for co-workers, advisers and experts, and the fully separate financing of political promotions and political campaigns. For the more part, let's be realistic about collecting donations in political promotion or pre-election. It is the logic of political interest, political interest, I could say the political logic of funding political parties, until we resolve these issues, we will have the satisfaction that we will show in the Croatian Parliament, but that satisfaction will not be shared by citizens because we leave doubt about the political correctness of political parties because we do not solve things that are actually whiteden for malversions in the financing of political parties. I therefore expect that after considering this report in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular in the hope that political bodies of political parties will come up with a proposal to complement the law with a special independent body from both the Government and the Parliament, such as the State Election Commission, which in real time can control the financing of political parties and the cost of an election campaign, and I advocate that there is a maximum limit in Croatia, the maximum cost of election promotion and public money, because the political parties and policy of the general good are guaranteed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20858	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20859	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before the game starts, let's finish this topic. ... Furio's worried about parking as far as I can tell. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20860	What game?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20861	Stop time until I get my turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20862	What game?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20863	The Champions League for God's sakes, no. Football.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20864	That wasn't yesterday?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20865	Well, there is today, and there will be tomorrow if Mamm doesn't decide otherwise. So when we passed the Law on the financing of political parties in Parliament, he was presented and explained as one of the laws of the anti-corruption package. That's what I hope, we all remember. But earlier, if I remind myself of today's debate, the perception of corruption in political parties has often been said. When data were presented on the perception of corruption in health, then we gave perceptions to the right. When we presented information on the perception of corruption in the judiciary, it was correct again. Well, then, the perception of corruption for education, we said that's how it is, that's how people see it. But when it comes to the perception of corruption in political parties, then we don't give perceptions the right, but we call for the find of the State Audit and we prove that it isn't there. I don't know where, but surely in political parties, the least corruption is done through a jury account so that the State Audit can find it. And the fight against perception or negative perception in corruption will not be won by shouting and shouting at journalists and the media, but by good, clear enforceable laws that we will obey. And this find of the State Audit is the first such hit in the srid. You made this fantastic part of the job, because you put us back in front of our noses and you put us on the track, and it turns out that we've passed a bad, vague and vague law that can be chewed like gum gum in its parts, divided into 10 pieces, and we'll all have chewing gum. I therefore expect that after this finding, the Government will come as soon as possible with a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the financing of political parties and remove any doubts as to how we will interpret and implement it. If I remember correctly, 58 failures could be determined, but not sanctioned, and only seven of these failures might be possible to subjugate under offense. I have long ago, on October 15th with this point made a proposal for a conclusion that I believe the Parliament will repel it with an abomination, and it is short of saying that the State Audit and the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, following the Council's conclusion on whatever the elements of the infringement urgently initiates the infringement procedure, that there would also be no deviations. Article 2 of the Law refers to the purpose of the funds for which the parties are allowed to use the money. Potentially, this law was violated by all the parties that were processed, because precisely in all parties it was given the conclusion that part of the documentation or finding the keeping of records or the use of funds was not consistent with something of what was, was not an offence, and should be by me. It's not because the law is unclear. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The DC and HSLS have, in my opinion, committed a violation in Article 3. Article 15 prohibits the receipt of funds from certain precisely listed organisations, bodies or other... and it seems to me that if I read the full report of the State Audit correctly, that the Croatian party of pensioners is here in violation. [[You don't understand.]] Article 19 obliges the parties to publicly display the origin and way of spending the funds and also on the website. The offence or that provision was not followed by HDZ, HSLS, HSP, IDS, SDSS and SDA. If you took minimum penalties for these articles of the law that I read to you, so minimum, not maximum, and if all of this were declared a violation and sanctioned, the fines would amount to a million and 378 thousand kuna at minimum amounts. What do web sites look like and releases the source of the funds? HDZ has announced donors, but only for the campaign not for the whole calendar year. HSLS lacks a donor list, the amount is published. HSP, too. SDSS too. The SDP, too. PGS didn't publish anything. IDS only published at the request of an audit, and SDA did nothing. Did they give a report on the entire party or just from downtown? DC only for the centre and 40 branches, HDZ only for the centre, HNS for the central and 11 county and Zagreb organizations, HSLS only for the centre, HSU only for the centre and SDSS only for the centre. Is that a violation? They're not because there's no deadline and it doesn't say whether it's all or part of it. Are we going to fix this law? HDZ as the strongest and richest and with these funds we are considering participates with 32%, said on its website that it spent 13.9 million kuna on campaign ads. The state audit found that 27.3 million kunas were spent on the campaign for promotion, and that the entire year thus went to 36.6 million for the promotion. HDZ announced on the website that it paid 12.1 million for radio and television, the State Audit found 18.5 million spending on these purposes. HDZ announced that 1.6 million were spent on the press, the state audit found 8.3 million. Is that a violation? No, they're not. And whatever you find like this, by reading the Law on the financing of political parties, the state's audit is after consulting with the lawyers... that they will find elements in those 7 launch of a misdemeanour procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then why the law? Why these ridiculous penalties, the sanctions provided for in the law, if it turns out, but nothing that has been observed so far has been sanctioned or any criminal judge could dismiss such a application. That is why I really think it is necessary that before the end of this year or at the latest at the beginning of next year we amend and supplement this law, especially because there are local elections in May next year. We'll also have the same situation as now, and we'll find the state audit finding to be fantastic, which is probably the best area the state audit has ever controlled, but because of the law. But that the law is clearer and more precise, and that there is no doubt about the interpretation which is, and which is not a violation, I want to believe that if I am not cheating on 58 of them, at least 50 of them would be easily interpreted, declared a violation, and especially the tax administration that must not only adhere to the Law on the financing of local self-government, but to all other tax laws of general tax income, profit, VAT and rest, I think that, with little effort and they could find elements for the misdemeanor process, but also in this audit report, not to Google the parties and take their money, but to learn order not to repeat mistakes. And if there were now 50 violations of 10 thousand kuna, in the next finding, it might be only 10th, and I'm afraid 2009 is the election year, we'll have the same situation as for 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20866	Thank you. Final review, chief state auditor Mrs. Šima Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20867	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't explain much, but I still thank you for the debate, I mean not the one for us a very good debate, constructive and supportive. I have to say, it's one of the most sensitive areas we've ever worked, and I'm glad that's what's being accepted, that the job is well done. I'd just like to set a few examples here. I stressed in my opening statement that political parties submit financial reports if they realise revenues and other associations above a certain limit. That was an average of 2 and a half thousand euros so far. So all those who have achieved above that, which is 15 parliamentary and 14 extraparliamentary parties, they are somewhere at local levels, we have made insights into their financial reports, we have made a report and delivered it to them, and everyone else who has achieved below that limit the law does not foresee that, only keeping records of their incomes, keeping simple bookkeeping, not double. It's double not wrong, it's double when you run both sides, it balances you know, so it's good to run double accounting, not simple. As for the independent lists, we don't have when the elections are over, when our board doesn't know confirms... Then they become independent representatives, and that's how they get the funds, and that's how we audited them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that no independent list entered the Parliament without being audited. E, we were asked to revise independent lists. These are for us independent representatives who entered or entered through independent lists, or if they came out of another party, in this way we audited those 9 MPs. So we're done... As far as associations are concerned, I must stress here that we have received 14,000 700 financial reports for non-profit institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of the 10,000 400 associations in Croatia, the association is funded you know how. Associations that are not financed by public funds cannot be audited, only by the part that is, or if an association is financed entirely or partly by public funds. As for the union, we also don't have the jurisdiction to revise the union. They have their membership fees, their membership, they volunteer to do so. Only that special law determines it. No unions, therefore. And other associations. All those associations where we find the funds to also finance local units, so associations that came from the Homeland War are audited through those institutions that finance them, and sometimes by some association if it is fully, or mainly funded, etc. There was a note here of a donation whether it might not capitalize, whether it is suitable, etc. It's a law that forbids it. The law forbidd a donation. On our part, we tried to check donors, because we were doing audits on the users of the budget of the ministries and others, whether any of the donors were also suppliers in those institutions. If there were any irregularities in the assignment. I have to admit here we haven't found any such irregularities, and the tax administration has been checking it out, we've been doing it for those who work with public funds. The tax administration, as far as I know, has been checking donations from the economy and from other institutions and agencies that have worked for certain parties, etc. I think that's where we tried to make what was possible from that point of view. One question was also asked about the significance threshold as it is calculated. Look, it's you, it's the standards, it's the rules of the profession. Any audit team that, when carrying out an audit, he adopts a court of law on the functioning of a single entity. The courts make judgments, we bring the courts to full business. The auditors give a report, orders, opinions, and explain the opinion. They explain it in a way that proposes this opinion and gives an explanation, and the argument consists of two significant, value-by-value thresholds if the value can be calculated in absolute terms and in percentage of the total income. It's tolerated to 2%. And if so, that irregularity has the mark of a criminal act. We are up to one agreement, whether the declaration we signed at the level of the national audit of the European Union in which we, too, participate, is the threshold of tolerance zero. So if an irregularity refers to a criminal act, then there's no tolerance. And an irregularity by nature. It depends on the type of transaction. If some transaction that she caused, what would happen is, the consequences of what they are, etc. And auditors suggest, but these opinions, or there is vertical control so that they pass two, three... more uniformly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So he's trying to balance those opinions. If someone has higher incomes, then the threshold of significance is greater because normal because the percentage of them is. So there are no irregularities. The possibility of major errors in this, and the truth is that the wide area is, for example, in conditional opinions. The abstention is known, there are no documents cannot be verified, there are none, etc. I'd still like to comment on the same little application. I said something before, our Law on the financing of political parties Article 25 says that Article 21, 22, 23 will speak when criminal acts have been committed, that is to say, in what situations and when and who submits applications. He says he's filing applications to the State Audit Office or the Ministry of Finance. We can only submit under this Law on the financing of political parties while the IRS is watching other laws. So we, I think we've seen it well. I have legal services, a legal department for legal affairs that handles every irregularity, not just those that are sanctioned. So I'm trying to try those who aren't sanctioned to try in some way to get those credentials, that is, to introduce maybe some kind of force to no longer repeat such irregularities. Consolidated data. I'm here to say that we've received from several parties unconsolidated, so ununited data. However, we have received from branches, special financial reports. So the reference to HDZ, I don't know any other parties that are, now I don't know who they were, that they didn't have, I think there were six consolidated data. We tried during the review to make the parties make the pooled data. Therefore, the data published from the data placed in the report differs from to create a unified one. They couldn't make new financial reports, but they pooled the data in the way they were supposed to be shown in the financial reports. We accepted that by hoping that this year will then be announced and consolidated. For example, if one party had a lot I don't know, the limits and we got you now. They got mine by the county offices, we did it all in one place and made it united. We can't consolidate. That's the data that's different from the data. The campaign data was indicative. It says that frame data is being published. We put them that were indicative, and then the actual data was published. Therefore, I do not know how many parties there are now data, some parties have united those frameworks that match, some have had larger, or fewer of these data. I'd just like to say one more thing here. Let's say for donations. They're forbidden, they say exactly which ones. It says above these amounts and that within eight days someone has to pay in the state budget and that. We've been thinking a little bit about looking at the donor who receives, we're thinking that maybe someone who donates and can deliberately donate to someone and remains anonymous so that I don't know any violations. So maybe we'll try to suggest that and the one who donates within eight days to pay it into the state budget. There is also one problem that says that they cannot donate to persons against whom the procedure is conducted, a forced tax collection process. We're opinions and we looked that way. I made a deal with the IRS, not only to force it, but for all those IRS, which have outstanding obligations, whether at national or local level, we don't think they can be donors. And that's how we did it. That's how we worked. We didn't watch if the coercion procedure was under way, so it's done. It's them all. And I think it's going to be installed and we've been coordinating with the IRS. So here I think I've answered certain questions. And I hope if the lawyers determine that there are violations, we'll do more. We'll file criminal charges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20868	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the Annual report on the work of the state's attorneys for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u20869	Fifth, Report on the audit of financial reports and the business of political parties and independent representatives for 2007, Carrier: State Audit Office. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, which reads: "It accepts the report on the audit of financial reports and the business of political parties and independent representatives for 2007. Please engage and vote. The result? This report was accepted with a majority of 114 votes in favour, no abstentions and two against. Representative Dragutin Lesar proposes to the Croatian Assembly to draw the next conclusion. The Croatian Parliament is in charge of the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, in accordance with Article 25, within 60 days The law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates shall apply for the launch of criminal proceedings before the competent court in respect of the infringements found in... The State Audit Office on the audit of financial reports and the business of political parties and independent representatives for 2007. The applicant did not accept this proposal as a conclusion. I'm putting the vote to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was not accepted because it voted 48, 3 abstentions and 64 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21006	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the second annual report by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. As you know in 2007 they dominated public offerings of shares and compliance with European Union regulations. I will just point out that the total non-consolidated balance sheet of the non-banking sector was 115 billion kuna or about 42% of gross domestic product. Unfortunately, because of the recent developments in the capital market, the property today fell by about 15 billion kuna and the share of the assets is about 36%. On the other hand, HANFA implemented a series of harmonisations in the law in 2007, signed agreements with related institutions in the European Union by signing agreements with Hungary, Germany and Austria. Of the greatest activities that have been, our largest capital market activities have been concentrated. There were 14 criminal charges, 24 criminal charges. The European Commission has also positively assessed the Agency's work. We have spent a number of educations from the KARC programme to prevent money laundering, and as I said during this year, activities have also been carried out in further coordination, especially in the adoption of the Capital Market Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21007	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. Dear Representative Vesna Buterin on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21008	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Management Board of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, Mr. Director of the Ministry of Finance. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency shall be an independent legal person with public authority whose part and jurisdiction falls under the supervision of the financial market, supervision of all legal or natural persons engaged in the provision of financial services, consultation on the financial market, sale, transfer or management of assets of financial services users and supervision of financial services provided by supervisory entities. HANFA officially started work on January 1st 2006 by joining pension funds and insurance agencies, securities commissions and insurance company supervisory directorates. HANFA is required to report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament once a year for the past calendar year on its work and the state of financial institutions and markets entering its work and competence. That is why we are discussing today the annual report on the work of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2007. 2007 marked public offerings of shares and further harmonisation of regulation in the accession process to the European Union. The total non-consolidated assets of the non-bank financial sector under the supervision of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency during that period amounted to around 115 billion kuna, representing around 42% of the gross domestic product of the Republic of Croatia. When the capital market is analysed, it is then evident that the total traffic achieved on the Zagreb Stock Exchange in 2007 reached 66.5 billion kuna, representing an increase of 35.5% compared to total turnover in 2006. It was actively traded with 376 editions of securities, which is 1.3% higher than in 2006. Regular share turnover was around 22 billion kuna, an increase of 57% compared to the previous year. Special attention was drawn to the sale of shares of Croatian telecoms to a public offering where the Government of the Republic of Croatia offered to sell just over 23 million regular shares of the company. Stocks are offered to Croatian citizens with the right of championship and special convenience. The public offer of shares has been fully successful and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sold the shares offered at 265 kuna per share. As a supervisory authority, HANFA followed the whole procurement process. In this respect, before and during the initial public offering, the Agency had given appropriate warnings regarding the misuse of the power to buy shares in a preferential offer and, following the public offer, took appropriate legal measures against persons who violated the conditions for the purchase of shares in a preferential offer. Furthermore, the strongest growth during 2007 has been achieved by open-ended investment funds whose assets from 16 billion kuna since the end of 2006 increased to 30 billion kuna at the end of 2007. 32 new open investment funds were established, and it is important to stress that these funds invest over 67% of their assets on the domestic securities market. The legal framework governing the operation of investment funds is given in the Investment Funds Act, which entered into force on 1.1.2006. By adopting new sublegislative acts, HANFA has set up a stronger regulatory framework, which has contributed to a significant improvement in the supervision of the operations of investment fund management companies and investment funds. The total assets of compulsory and voluntary pension funds at the end of 2007 amounted to around 22 billion kuna, up from 2006 to 5 billion kuna. During 2007, the Agency continuously supervised the operations of pension societies and pension funds and their compliance with legal and sublegal acts in order to protect the interests of members of compulsory and voluntary pension funds. In 2007, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency made revenue of 30.3 million kuna, which was achieved in the most part on the basis of the fees paid from the assets and revenue of the control entities as well as from the fees paid for the services provided for in the HANFA section. It is also important to highlight the fact that the Agency participates in the process of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union as part of its obligations. In this connection, a self-assessment document or self-assessment document was drawn up during 2007 to produce a regular report by the European Commission on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the process of joining the European Union. During 2007, IMF missions were held at the agency, which joined the so-called ‘IMF’. The European Commission's PR assessment mission aims to review the system of supervision of the non-bank financial sector where the work and role of the agency are positively assessed. In the end, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club accepts the Annual Report on the work of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21009	On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21010	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency has been overseeing the non-banking financial sector since 1 January 2005. She is an independent and legal person with public authority and is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. The core objectives of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency are to promote and preserve the stability of the financial system and to monitor the legality of the business of control entities. In achieving its objectives, the agencies should be guided by the principles of transparency, and in particular build trust among financial market participants. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency is an institution which, by respecting the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, is obliged to ensure access to all types of information that can be of interest to all investors. Did the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency perform and how successfully it performs its basic function? In conditions where economic growth in the country is about 5%, it is obvious that it is also contributing to the growth of market capitalisation in which we are truly among the largest at world level, the good part and mainly not generated by the war of the real sector. More specifically, using a positive trend in the world economy by this year, a speculative balloon was created on the Croatian market. Marketing of such a market has caused too many funds and other financial intermediaries compared to market capitalisation. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency spent its resources heavily on the so-called so-called chasing witches looking for ordinary law enforcement, completely losing a large picture of the market and the possible consequences of rapid and speculative growth. We have missed, and the current financial market situation says we have not exceeded the potential risks of unrealistic growth. The fact that risks are not adequately controlled, that they are not adequately measured and that the public has not been adequately reported. The fact that no single stress test is presented to bind participants in the capital market in a certain manner in the event of negative market circumstances other than day-to-day suspensions of domestic trade. The large increase in stock prices due to the speculative behaviour of market participants resulted in a negligible number of company acquisitions, which ultimately implies a possible prevention of foreign capital entry. Such market behaviours allow extra profits to management companies and companies for financial intermediation. The Agency’s supervision as described in this report and its performance corresponds to its most essential form of supervision, i.e. monitoring that satisfies the form but at the same time does not take into account the fundamental removal or mitigation of possible risk management damage. A reactive approach to the capital market and waiting to happen miss and lose, to make a move cost all the participants of the capital market. The proactive and development of modern methods of surveillance where the risk is what needs to be managed and minimised definitely, and from this report is visible, the agency is missing. By reading and analysing this report and all the results of the surveillance in this 2007 annual report, it is strange and difficult to explain that there is no situation where the agency suspects or even less punishes the illogical investment activities of investment funds and brokerage houses in the management film section. At the same time, we are convinced that the agency has checked the signatures on the documents, that the completeness of the files has been checked, but we definitely cannot conclude that the essential investment decisions have been checked, the fund is under the management film, decisions that have cost the companies to the extreme, but even more importantly have been fatal for small investors as well. The full responsibility of the agency and its surface in taking measures has directly affected the quality of life of investors i.e. Citizens. It is precisely the point of the supervisor, and in this case the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency is to protect the investor or in the worst situation to warn him of possible consequences. We are witnessing that this has not been achieved, for many investors, and especially the newly-roasted, small investors under quotes, who have decided to make their contribution to the government project to foster economic growth coming from the capital market, in a way that participates in the initial public offering of shares. It is logical and we should not be surprised that high contributions and positive movements lured investors and companies themselves, funds, portfolio managers to get into the most risky and unsustainable investments, but it is not logical that no signal, no analysis, no regulatory measure of the agency has taken place in the direction of protecting investors and calming speculative fever. Only this year's 2007 report by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for its annual supervisory achievement in 2007 is the most relevant evidence. We in the Croatian People's Party will support this annual report, however, we believe and reiterate that the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency is working too little on one of its most basic tasks, and this is the development of the capital market from the development of a legislative framework for the capital market to education that should focus on the adoption of specialist knowledge, but also on raising the general level of knowledge in the capital market. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency should give a very clear and understandable warning to citizens of inappropriate statements by individuals in public, especially political elites in situations where this can have a significant impact on the capital market, especially in this today's financial market for an extremely sensitive moment. Furthermore, we have warned and re-warn that the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency is still experiencing itself as a rigid state body that has focused on restrictions, punishment and the public uncritical calling of a participant in the capital market for alleged punishable actions and is still a common practice of communicating the agency with the public. Such and similar statements, which allegedly ignore the principle that everyone is innocent until proven guilty in the appropriate procedure, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency loses credibility and poses itself to an institution above the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21011	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21012	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished representatives of Hanfa and the Ministry of Finance. Here's what to say while we've been waiting all day for Hanfa's report, Crobex's stock index has dropped 5.28%. What's in the report, and it's about numbers and statistics, is something that can't be challenged as well as this decline in the stock index today of 5.28%, and we can't add much importance to that. It's a sum of statistical indicators, as it is for 2007, but the part that concerns us is the part about supervision, which is the task of regulators as well as taking measures of education and cooperation with those involved in the process of which I'm going to say something in the end. Impressive data at the beginning of the capital market, I will primarily focus on the capital market, pension funds and investment funds, because I think we have the most problems here. As my colleagues previously said before, the total non-consolidated assets amounted to 115 billion kuna, covered by the non-banking sector, and 42% of GDP and 10% increase compared to 2006, and the new turnover increased by 22 billion kuna and 57%, respectively, and Crobex grew over 60%. The necessity is a responsible regulator and that's what we're all aware of. They also marked the year's public offerings not only of HT, but also of other renowned Croatian companies that decided to place their shares on the market. However, the issue that needs to be asked here today is not as much related to Hanfa, as it is to the state according to its ownership. Croatian telecommunications has been sold to citizens and funds for 12 billion kuna, so it can be talked about the amount at 12 to 15% of the state budget for the past year. And I'm wondering here, in front of you, what would it mean if there wasn't this sale in the state budget, would that mean that the previous two years of pay would freeze, and it's no wonder that, given the trend in sales, we're having a crisis now. However, what else needs to be underlined is that this company is making an annual profit at 2 billion kuna and giving up a profit that you can get back in 6 years sounds a little crazy. But then what happens? The government decides to sell the company at a price it can then get more money. It is therefore questionable whether the decision was correct, since the price of 320 kuna could then be reached on the market. The story includes the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency. Although aware of the facts and the risk of citizens taking loans and not only for the purchase of shares of HT, but for the purchase of shares of other Croatian companies, it goes in a commercial without sufficient explanation that the investment of shares is a risky business. Now, one prominent financial analyst, when he commented and talked about speculative markets, said the first break of the speculative market comes when citizens from stockings and under pillows or in debt draw money to buy securities. That's what happened. On the market we suddenly had a surplus share, a large number of shares and a large amount of money that came by buying those shares. Of course, it was first sensed by those who were aware of it, and these are large players that such a trend was unsustainable, since the citizens were in debt such a trend was unsustainable and they began to come out slowly, and when it would not come out when the amount of capital on the stock market was the largest, and the biggest at the moment when citizens began to borrow on that market. At the same time they were, there was a time of pre-parliamentary elections and what was inadmissible at that time was that Hanfa was aware of the risks of borrowing, because citizens had reached into credit banks to buy shares, in some way stimulated, or did not explain the risk it carries, because those citizens who trusted the government with a gap of one year today, regardless of the 10% shares they got, these citizens are at a loss today. Their shares are less valuable because they trusted the government. We often hear from HANFA that it's an insecure and insecure market and that's what really worries us. Then what happened? Then it also happened to follow the rules on the possibility of investing the pension funds themselves not only in the shares of the first quotation, but in the shares of the public stock exchange, they are starting to come out of the investment funds. As they come out of investment funds, shares should be paid, as the market is insecure and insecure, shares that go best, liquid shares sold and priced. This subconsciously, knowingly or unconsciously causes fear in investors, the market has begun to fall, and pension funds begin to buy their own shares from public stock quotations and thus trade their own securities. Only one, 2007 compared to 2006, pension funds invested 3 billion kuna in shares compared to 0.85 billion in 2006, and in open-end investment funds 2.5 billion in 2006 compared to 1.1 billion in 2006. Unfortunately, this can be checked and there have been cases where individual funds have acted as speculators, and I'm here on purpose now and when transactions with the same shares of purchase and sale were realised in just one week. There is a task, a strategic task of the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency to prevent, stop or sort of regulate the story. Unfortunately, the property of the crafts capital of investment funds, the crafts capital of investment funds, the crafts capital of pension funds is much higher than the capital of brokerage houses, and I have a feeling that HANFA was mostly more involved in procedures, meaning errors in the procedures of brokerage houses. And that brings us to the question, and that question concerns the Penal Code, because I'm going to remind you that manipulation by price and market is a crime. And we're coming up with a surveillance issue. In what HANFA was overseeing, everything is mentioned as part of a declaration. What we can't be satisfied with is a tax-listed number of what led to the intervention. We'd like to see that in the report, we'd like to see what the number of cases was when it was manipulated by the market, when the information was traded, and when the procedural errors occurred. However, for trading and side information, for market manipulation in the HANFA should sit top economic analysts, top financial analysts, and in one hand detectives and well-paid to do that part of the job, and not trainees who can only do at a certain point, is to see if a certain brokerage house has made certain procedural mistakes and such cases and such remarks on the work of brokerage houses is actually the most and that is definitely what we cannot be satisfied with. And not only that, that's what we're worried about. The necessity of analysis and the necessity of detective access. What's also kind of worrying is the relationship. HANFA had a partnership with investment funds that had recently adapted to MiFIDA directives and brought them into line with European regulations, because we are here in July of the month, I remember how well I remember the debate and the adoption of the Capital Market Act that enters into force 1. 1. In 2009. But then I said that we accept a whole series of European directives, European procedures for which we don't even know how it will affect our market. I then said that in 2002 a mandatory public stock exchange set a good example for certain markets in the region to publish their data more transparently on the Internet to attract small investors. It's one of the things that's been lifted. However, that is not the problem. The problem is what happens in the next 12 months. Banks that adapt to the Capital Market Act held by mother banks in countries that have already adopted the directives will easily adapt. And they won't have bigger problems, since they're already spending, meaning new procedures, in their home countries they've experienced on their budget. Also some brokerage houses, but rarely owned by a foreign owner, will cost and additional regulation, meaning adjustment in 12 months one of the larger things is the adequateness of capital, as well as being able to adopt directives i.e. the procedure of its owner in the countries of the European Union. Unfortunately, though, the worst will pass our home brokerage houses, meaning brokerage houses in our possession. And that is what is not good and what I said at the time that it is not good, that we are harmonising the system after the latter, that the system is actually harmonising itself with the European Union, instead of forming it, I would rather have formed a team that would be co-port and cooperation with our financial institutions on the way to adapt to these measures. And that's what I have to ask. Did you organize certain people, workshops that would help brokerage houses, mean domestic subjects to adapt to the new circumstances? And when you go to the HANFA website, I'd like to see the organisational structure. So when you call in HANFA about a particular problem, then you actually need to connect with the operator and talk about something where they connect you. We would also like to see the organisational structure that can be called, you have teamed up to help investors, but also to help those who intervene in relation to investors and the stock exchanges themselves. Here, I think we at the SDP club were clear enough in this regard to the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency's report. And I expect you to answer the questions we asked. And another question you'd like to ask for the end. I saw a commercial the other day, "It's a new day tomorrow," so I'm also interested in the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21013	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21014	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Here today we are considering the Annual report on the work of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2007. And I just want to commend the Annual report on the work of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. I also believe that it is of quality to give a realistic picture of the legality of the business of this significant financial not banking sector, so the capital market, investment and pension funds, insurance markets, pension-securing companies, lising, the company's market and factoring society. The report, if we objectively observe it, shows that the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency has successfully carried out its task in line with the main fundamental objective, which is to monitor the legality of the supervision entities. I also believe that the Agency has managed the principles of transparency, construction and trust among financial market participants, consumer reporting, and in line with the 2007 Report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21015	Thank you. Dear Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21016	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. President-in-Office of the HANFA Administration, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I would only use this opportunity to point out that only from good and quality supervision of financial institutions results in the stability of the financial system. It is certainly undeniable that despite the intense economic global crisis, the stability of the financial system in Croatia is satisfactory and for such stability the merits certainly belong to the CNB and the fiscal policy of the Government, of course, and to the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Despite many and negative remarks here, I do seem without the right arguments to support the adoption of the 2007 Annual Report of HANFA and to congratulate the President of the Board of Directors Mr Samodol and his employees on professional and professional action and I would disagree with the opinion that there are insufficient quality people in HANFA and that it should be filled in by more professional employees. I think that if we both had other institutions and agencies working with trained staff such as professional employees as in HANFA and the state would be a little more positive in each respect and segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21017	Thank you. And the honourable representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21018	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues from the ministry and the HANFA, colleagues and colleagues. I'd just like to see that there are a lot of short debates, so I'll join that. It doesn't take all ten minutes, maybe what you're saying, what you're saying and saying, so I'll turn to three things. First of all, I think it's extremely important that this agency act and I think there's a lot of room for progress in the work of this agency. In particular, even through the adoption of a new law, there will probably be stronger mechanisms that will enable us to achieve this, although we honestly did not understand why we passed this law so quickly that we extended it to six months until 1.1.2009. And which is why we haven't sanctioned any of these things before, which are now under new law sanctioned. As far as the market itself is concerned, 115 billion are indeed many, 42% of GDP and the agency deserves full support and to be even more present on the market in order for Croatian citizens to be more protected. What I think is a negative example of how we shouldn't be working on those markets is definitely the IPOs that were in last year. I'm specifically thinking about IPO HT, where in my opinion, it led people into one job that a lot of them weren't ready for. The state is, or specifically, government and then whoever was in a position has promoted shareholders as a promised country, as something you're going to invest tomorrow, today you're going to get 100 tomorrow as if so without it can, without working to live and that's just the way it is. Here's what you're gonna do today. Tomorrow you're gonna make some money. I'm sorry, and I don't think that agency passed a test that wasn't more active in explaining to people that it wasn't. Four hundred thousand people entered the IPO, many of them invested their money. Many of them did not invest their money but invested the money they borrowed from the banks and now the situation a year after they received the additional shares and returned those loans they borrowed to them negatively. Many Croatian citizens lost 4-5 thousand kuna in that transaction. For what? Because they really believed both the government and those commercials that we watched that promoted investment in capital markets and believed they could really make money without work. Unfortunately, it is not so and therefore I think that the HANFA also did not pass the test of responsibility for educationally acting on people and to warn the government that it must not behave in this way, no matter what the Government is Government and no matter what may sometimes not be directed to the Government, it is not good, but it is still a Croatian Parliament institution and has one independence on the market and could thus react that fifty thousand Croatian citizens do not lose 5,000 kuna. These are not citizens who have that money in their stockings, they are citizens who have borrowed money and who are now behind this year, behind this difficult year, having to pay back the money they lost by the Croatian government's irresponsibility. On the other hand, when we look at the whole market, these are amazing data, which is that since the beginning of the year, we have lost approximately the capitalisation of the market of 220 billion kuna. Two Croatian budgets were lost somewhere, almost all of GDP was lost. I think on that side it's the same consequence not only of the world's waves let's just say it's a decline in values but because people just weren't ready and the market didn't develop, people weren't ready for everything the market carries. The price of HT would also be discussed. Here, I did a little analysis, and I think that when I look at today's price of INA that's about 40% below the IPO price. If so, if the HT stock had been realistically assessed at that time, it would have been likely today that the HT stock was realistically assessed at that time, it would have been worth 40, 50 kuna lower than it is worth, and on this side it could be said that perhaps the state budget is conscious because of the electoral needs damaged by a certain amount if the price of 50 kuna should have been higher than around one and a half billion kuna. And what I really hate to say is, let's say the regulators or whoever should be watching what's going on here is inaction, I wouldn't be talking about whether someone bought a package more or less, it's illegal, shares of HT and these people should if it's possible to sanction that they're not using unauthorized funds, but there are elicit examples. This one who bought a few more packages are still small players and ultimately the most small players on the market get hurt. Big players, big fish remain unpunished. One day I opened one of our daily newspapers, and inside I saw an article that I must admit disgusted me, and it says about like this: "If you don't buy something at that price by tomorrow or by two days, what's going to happen to your shares? It is very likely that the shares will fall and you will lose value." About now I am trying to recapture the content of this article. It just didn't say: buy at that price that stock because otherwise it'll all go to waste. I didn't even see any reaction from HANFA to that text. It was impossible to miss it because it was all over the page of a high-pitched newspaper. It's obviously affecting the market. It is clearly suggested what should be done in favour of which those shares should be purchased but there was no reaction. We are left as investors small or as citizens as a small market for the mercy and mercies of larger investors who can then work with us whatever they want. If the HANFA no matter what the possibility of sanctions may have been, here seems to be a new law that will be sanctioned and fined, such papers will no longer be published because they could pay up to a million kuna but if HANFA hadn't responded and said it was illegal, you can't do it. If it had appeared in any way, it would have been much easier for me because I would have felt that on that market things are not only controlled if someone bought 5 packages more or less than if transactions were controlled in billions and thus protected by Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, that's not the case. I hope that in the future there will be and that ultimately, as investors, we will be able to read such reports with greater support. As for one, a new factoring service, unfortunately, which I now see in a huge increase compared to last year, what is the liquidity situation in Croatia? It's probably going to be a bigger and bigger need for factoring. I'd like the agencies to pay special attention to these things next year because I think that there, that there may be things in some way and I'm not going to say abuse but the market is very, very sensitive. Here I hope, in the end, that next year, I will be able to say that there is finally an agency not only as an idea of good but that it really is watching over our investors and people who are entering the capital market and who are using capital market services, and that ultimately we will all be satisfied with such a report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21019	Thank you. Does the rapporteur's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Anto Samodol, President of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21020	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is just a brief answer to the honourable representative Bernardic for the questions asked. So HANFA only participated in the approval of the prospectus as regards HT. We didn't participate in the campaign, nor should we. If you noticed our employees weren't involved in this. The stockbrokers participated. So if there was any problem with that identification. As far as HANFA and the election are concerned, we must not advise or do our job, and that is what we strictly adhere to the Retirement Fund Regulation, unfortunately it had to be based on the law adopted in this House. So we had to do it. The procedures of brokerage houses absolutely as well as the funds are prescribed by the rules and our decisions and whenever intervention occurs, that is what you really don't see and neither can we report it, and these are our criminal charges and criminal charges. You've seen us have had 14 criminal charges for, among other things, manipulation and 24 criminal charges. He's processing the state's attorney's office. We can't talk about it until it's done. We don't judge. We don't punish. There are other institutions for that. As for workshops with brokerage houses or new law, a number of workshops have been held since 2007, the last two years, and if you get better information, you will see that there is now one workshop. About seven workshops have been held so far. You've been misinformed by some brokerage houses. The truth of some brokerage houses will have to disappear. I understand their anger, but unfortunately everything must be in accordance with the law. As for Mr. Honorable Representative Maras, exactly, we have paid attention to the factoring but as you know there is no factoring law in Croatia and I am stressing once again and I pray here when you speak either the brokerage house or the fund. What is fundamental to us, in law is the protection of users of financial services and we are always focused on customers of financial services, not on the protection of brokers or fund managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21021	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to the next - Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency for 2007 The applicant is the Supervisory Board of the FINA, which is based on Article 21. Law on the Financial Agency, Article 13(2) The Statute of the Financial Agency submitted this report. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The president of the FINA Administration, Drago Regvar, will further explain the proposal. Here you go. Mato Regvar. Yes, yes, Mato.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21023	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Lady and gentlemen of Parliament. With the approval of the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency, Mr Ivan Shuker, I have been given the mandate to present to you the 2007 Financial Agency's Business Report. Although this institution has a half-century tradition, the Financial Agency under this name has been active since January 2002 when the Financial Agency Act was passed, which was inherited by the institution owned by the State by the rights, obligations and assets of the former payment service and continued to form its business policy in the market environment. In 1993, the Institute of Payments inherited the Social Accounting Service, which in the former state had the exclusive right to conduct foreign payment transactions. In 2002, the Institute of Payments improved both technologically and organisationally and retained a monopoly in the area of payment traffic. More than 500 thousand real-time transactions, an extremely high level of customer satisfaction and a particularly positive assessment of domestic and foreign institutions have contributed to the acquisition of the institution's top reputation. A few words about organisational structure. The financial agency is organised mixed, which means it consists of 13 sectors, 4 business sectors, 8 support sectors and one sector called the Business Network Sector, which is also the largest sector within the Financial Agency. With 31 December 2007 in the Business Networks Sector as the largest sector as I said, 3914 workers worked. Otherwise, the total number of employees at the Financial Agency dated 31.12 last year was 4735 employees, which in the structure of the FINA looks like this. Central services number 899 employees. We have four regional centres so that the regional centre of Zagreb numbers 1752 employees. Regional center of Rijeka 758 employees. Regional center Split 710 and Osijek 615 employees. During 2007, 523 workers met the conditions for retirement under the transitional provisions of the Pension Insurance Act. Based on an agreement with the Independent Union "Solidarity" 316 employees were retired through a model of stimulating retirement that cost FINA 88 million kuna and which is later seen in the table view of financial indicators, which is the sole cause of FINA's loss of 22 million kuna during 2007. A few words about the activities and products that marked last 2007. In 2007, FINA implemented a quality system according to ISO 9100/2000, which is the only financial institution that has succeeded so far, and its implementation has achieved a special challenge due to the territorial and organisational specificity of FINA as well as a large number of employees. In order to meet the needs of customers in particular of citizens and to increase the FIN competences, FINA introduced the afternoon work with clients to additional until then seven locations, which at that time accounted for 44 locations where customers could do their business services by 18.30 hours. In December of last year, 15 additional locations were opened to such locations, and another 24 were opened during this year. News in FINA's business is the introduction of exchange operations so that FINA has since January 2007, with the purchase of foreign cash on behalf of and at the expense of the Croatian Post Bank, carried out the purchase and sale of foreign cash at 129 locations. In 2007, FINA made the purchase of effective foreign money worth 259 million kuna, which is 322% more than it was done in 2006 and was sold with an effective foreign money worth 34 million kuna. In 2007, FINA reorganised a system of cash centres, which successfully relocated the Croatian National Bank's final money from the 12 cash centre vault that stopped working from February to May 2007, and thus reached the necessary preconditions for the functioning of the new cash cash cash management system, and since May last year, the cash management system has been made up of 10 cash centres. Telegraphic only to inform you which new products, i.e. services or services were created in FINA. Info-bis for those who don't know, just a sentence or two about every product or service. One of them is Info-bis. It is a service that allows fast and easy access to information on the performance of business and financial position of entrepreneurs and in the business environment in which they operate. It is the first and only Internet service that contains all business information in one place and allows comparison of company and Croatian economy data as a whole. One of the very well-accepted services of FINA is called FINA-option, it is a service of free information and planning of financial investments offered to clients by employees within the FINA offices. Furthermore, the service of a safe hand, i.e. accounting service. At the moment FINA is the largest accounting service in the Republic of Croatia. It started with the modest 2006 19 contracts, with 31.12 last year we had 219 contracts with entrepreneurs, and to have more than 3700 contracts with today. So this speaks of the trust that entrepreneurs have with regard to keeping business books in the institution, which is FINA. Furthermore, there have been increasing signs of electronic signatures in the media lately. This is a unique application for electronic signature intended for private and business users who fully satisfy the legislation in the Republic of Croatia. And a few more words about the most important events that happened with FINA. In mid-March 2007, it was presented by the Financial Agency and the Croatian Post Bank, the Service Centre for Foreign Exchanges. This Joint Centre for Foreign Exchanges offers, among other things, services for the transport, processing and refurbishment of foreign exchange performance. "E" corner can be seen in each branch of the Financial Agency is another service, i.e. service of the Financial Agency as part of the government project, which is HITRO.HR. It would not be about the others, only about the project, the Government's project Government Service HItro.HR During 2007, a new 37 locations were opened at which the service operates, so with today as part of the office of the Financial Agency HItro.HR could be obtained at 61 locations. And what matters most now is what you are probably most interested in, and these are financial indicators of the financial agency's 2007 business. I must say that the financial operations of the Financial Agency are based on the prices that exist within the FINA, which is the price list for the conduct of accounting operations, payment transactions through the National Clinical System. On the basis of the price list of contract transactions of the Ministry of Finance, the price list of services of the Financial Agency and the price list of contractual transactions for the Ministry of Finance. So, all services, all services, all products have their foothold in transparent prices that are available to all our clients. In 2007, total revenue of a billion 4 million 758 thousand and 152 kuna was made. And the structure of these revenues is next. Business revenues represent, i.e. 948 million 891 thousand kuna in the total income structure. Financial revenues of 55 million 866 thousand kuna, totalling 938 million, 982 thousand kuna. The expenditure is unfortunately higher than the income. Out of total revenues, the total amount of expenditure achieved is as I said a billion and 27 million kunas ago. The only reason the negative financial result of the 22 million kuna is the cost of the stimulating retired 316 employees of the Financial Agency. The main data related to the balance sheet is that the total long-term assets of the FINA are worth a billion 157 million 462 000. It's a long-term property, of which it's a material property of 77 million 980 thousand kuna and I wouldn't go into detail right now. Furthermore, the financial assets amount to 81 million 905 thousand kuna and claims on 31 December last year amount to 15 million 966 thousand kuna. Short-term assets totalling 744 million 973 thousand kuna. So the total pasiva to repeat again is one billion 157 million 462 thousand kuna. And the passive structure is next. Own capital and reserves worth a billion 603 million kuna, long-term reserves of 71 million 567 thousand kuna, long-term liabilities of 99 million 297 thousand kuna, short-term liabilities of 140 million 330 thousand kuna or total liabilities of a billion 915 thousand 11 4 thousand kuna. And perhaps now a brief recapitulation of the account to win and lose. So total expenditure 947 million 77,000 kuna. Of these, business expenditures amount to a billion, 24 million,338 thousand kuna. Furthermore, staff costs amount to 569 million 897 thousand kuna, with a percentage of 52% of total expenditure. This is the consequence of a large number of employees that I have said before, and they are 31. 12. Four thousand 735 employees. Furthermore, the cost of... depreciation amounts to 105 million kuna, the value of harmonising short-term assets million 829 thousand kunas, booking costs and risk 9 million 222 thousand kunas and other operating costs 65 million 608 thousand kuna. The results, therefore, were reduced from the debt related to the debt of refurbishment and retirement debt of EUR 77 million. So I repeat once again the negative result or the loss of 22 million 616 thousand kuna. In addition to all regular business efforts, it was shown for a reason that there was an accelerated, i.e. the encouraging retirement of 316 employees of the Financial Agency. Here comes the ladies and gentlemen so briefly in short notice. You have more details in your materials and, if necessary, I am available for individual questions or explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21024	Thank you. The State Budget and Finance Committee? A representative of the government? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mrs. Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21025	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the FINA Administration, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, we have a report from a state agency that conducts transactions for its clients and provides information and electronic services that does not actually provide any other company in our country. A branched network of businesses, an information system proven at the most demanding jobs and projects of national importance. Here, we will remember the pension reform that we have received and the international recognitions, we will remember REGOS, HITRO.HR, the electronic signature that the president of the administration spoke of, so all together with 5,000 professional and efficient workers, it is FINA today. FINA with ours we can paint the past work. However, FINA today is also the agency that lies ahead of the most uncertain period of its half-century history. Remember, FINA has been acting under its current name since the beginning of 2002 as the legal follow-up of ZAP created by the collapse of SDK 1993. And SDK was founded in 1959 and with the activities of controlling the use of social resources and the management of social bookkeeping it had the exclusive right to conduct domestic payment traffic in the then state. Due to the exceptional speed of transactions, high efficiency and security, then payment traffic was considered to be top-notch in Europe. Such a top-notch reputation but also a monopoly in payment traffic was retained by ZAP by the end of 2001. And then the country's Payment Transport Act was transformed in early 2002. The payment traffic has been taken over by banks and the assets, rights and obligations of ZAP have been inherited by FINA, which is therefore now free of monopoly or market but remains state-owned and has begun to form its status and business policy. It has become a generally accepted Croatian provider of financial, administrative and information and communication services, electronic services, information and other high value added services such as no other company has provided. I must stress here that despite the fact that it has always been owned by the state by institutions of particular social interest such as SDK and to the market-oriented company as it is today, FINA has never been on the state's mantle. In fact, it has always very generously filled the state register, even when it was placed in a discriminatory position with regard to banks in terms of VAT taxation. In particular, VAT is not paid on payment services carried out in banks while VAT is calculated on payment services in the FINA. After thanking the FINAs at the end of 2007, and thanking the FINAs for processing the documentation of the FINA postal offices, it has practically remained only payment traffic with citizens since the beginning of 2008, while from the banks or their customers, FINA, performs payment traffic in the role of outsourcing partners, which implies the forests of the most diverse technology models of conduct, in order to satisfy the demands of business banks, to the final details. As a result of the cancellation of mail whose orders accounted for a significant part of the total payment turnover of FINA, the total number of payment orders processed was reduced in 2007 compared to 2006 by 8%. Out of 119 million processed orders, 83 million or 70% were security orders, with their numbers down 12% compared to 2006. At the same time, the number of cash orders processed by 36 million or 30% of the total number increased from 2006 to 4.5%. More than two-thirds of the cash orders were orders from citizens. Despite the fact that FINA still has a significant position of 38% of the market share in the euro payment segment and offers a very wide range of other products of which some are very sophisticated income shortages due to the loss of payment traffic unfortunately cannot be compensated. The variety of business that FINA is doing today shows that FINA does not actually have a clearly defined market position, unfortunately not even a strategic objective. In fact, the agency's strategy based on the motto "small things mean a lot" is actually the policy of "a grain per grain of cake". However, FINA is too large a system and the environment is predominant that such a policy could represent a secure perspective. And that's why the cake is getting thinner, and that confirms the data on the results achieved. Namely, until 2006. FINA regularly earned significant profits. In 2006, net profits amounted to as much as 25 million kuna. In 2007, for the first time, I said in 50-year history, the loss was achieved, amounting to 23 million kuna. True, gross profits are twice as high as in 2006, but due to 88 million kuna, how much pension costs were for 523 workers, according to the management president, the final financial result is negative. However, in order to avoid confusion, retirement costs are not the only reason for a weak financial result. He has deeper reasons, however, and this confirms the financial results achieved for the first nine months of 2008. In fact, I'm going to say it a little bit declassified that here at the end of 2008 we're only discussing the 2007 FINA financial report. So, in the nine-month period of 2008, a loss of 33 million kuna was made, and that is 10 million kuna more than for the whole of 2007. True, the last quarter of the last year has always been the most effective result, the strongest, however, the loss will be huge and it is real, is not caused by the cost of retirement and it is a very serious problem. This problem is further potentiated by the absence of a defined market position. In this regard, what will the supervisory board, where the representatives of the state as the owner of the FINA, take into account, and where are the solutions to the problem? With a large number of services so far known, FINA offered a number of new services during 2007. So FINA Accounting Service, FINA Compensation, FINA Option, FINA Exchanges, E-signature, Info-bis, IC-reiting, is open another 37 HItro.HR offices so now has a total of 61. As a partner to the Croatian postal bank, FINA worked at the highest professional level of reception and registration of public offers for the purchase of THT shares. Operational technological support to the state treasury system has been continued and new functionality for Regos has been developed. In addition, a new national system of cash centres is planned to ensure a level playing field for the quality and standard of the treatment of almost money and a reduction in the price of services in the cash business. The unique system of cash centres would be based on 9 locations. So in Zagreb, Varazdin, Bjelovar, Osijek, Rijeka, Pula, Zadar, Split and Dubrovnik, it would be 49% co-owned by banks. The same would be the share of the FINA and 2% would be the share of the Croatian National Bank. The establishment of a company is planned to start specifically for March 2009. This project would provide a sustainable business with cash and employ a number of its people. Which number is not yet known but certainly smaller because part of the workers should also be recruited from business banks. And what about the huge number of other employees? That's the primary question. What will happen with a billion kunas of valuable material resources, a wide-ranging network of branches, offices and offices that provided the availability of FINA literally in every corner of Croatia to every citizen, and why FINA was able to successfully work on the most demanding projects of national importance. This valuable infrastructure is a huge financial burden if it is not used rationally and at this point we are afraid it is not. Which will be taken in terms of systematic protection against the criminal attacks on FINA, which has literally become a self-serving money to bandits. After all, what will be with what is unique and most valuable in FINA and which in the world has a far higher price "Know how". I repeat, the owner of the FINA is a state and the state must determine what the FINA will do and it is a pity that there is no chairman of the Supervisory Committee of Finance Minister Shuker here today to give us answers to questions about the FINA's future and 5,000 of its employees. And one more thing. On the one hand, FINA receives awards for the highest quality services and the highest customer orientation. It is also classified in the very top of Croatia's most respected companies. On the other hand, it concerns her involvement in some for FINA, for the FINA's present image of unusual affairs that ended in an awkward affair. I'm thinking of a hotel complex called Kolochep. What was the role of FINA in that? On whose orders or under whose pressure was FINA involved? Whose responsibility is that? What kind of business does FINA do and they're threatened by the future of 5,000 employees? So we expect answers to all the questions asked. Far more than us here answer these questions are expected by FINA employees and especially by those answers relating to the future of FINA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21026	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21027	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the FINA Board, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's club and representatives discussed the 2007 annual report on FINA's operations and wants to draw attention to several important facts to be taken into account when assessing the results and making any conclusions on FINA's business in the past year. First of all, FINA is a state-owned financial institution and as such is not led exclusively by the motive of profit and profit gains under the pressure of the imperative to bring as much profit as possible to the owner. FINA is an agency with the core activity of carrying out financial transactions and providing service, financial and other information for the widest circle of clients. Furthermore, FINA is also the most extensive financial organization, has its branches, offices and facilities throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia almost every small town or city. FINA has huge material assets, construction facilities and equipment that are distributed throughout the country and which need to be cared for, maintained in function and use. Finally, FINA has huge human potential, almost 5,000 employees of different profiles who are constantly training for new projects and challenges of time. In addition, I believe that we must respect the fact that in 2007 FINA continued the process of transformation and restructuring in order to improve the quality and level of financial services in a very demanding and competitive environment. This process of adapting to modern operating conditions in 2007 reflected in particular the care of 523 workers who met the conditions for retirement, with a retirement cost of nearly 88.4 million kuna. The gross profit of the FINA at no retirement cost would amount to almost 66 million kuna. It is true and the fact is that the pension cost conditionaled on a negative financial result, a loss of more than 21.6 million kuna, but it will seek to cover the higher economy and profitability of business from current revenues in 2008. The financial indicators of the business that were given in the material are very good and show positive trends both in relation to the achievement of 2006 and in relation to the 2007 plan, except for the pension cost position which had already been commented on. It might be interesting to comment slightly on changes in the structure of income and expenditure in the business sectors in two comparative years as well as the causes that led to the change, and then get a more complete picture of the performance of the business and the results of the restructuring and adjustment of FINA's business in the last year. The revenues from the cash business reduced their share of total revenues from 18.8% in 2006 to 15.4% in 2007 and mainly because it grows extremely quickly without cash payments from citizens through Internet banking. This also resulted in a 16% reduction in these revenues compared to the parallel year, but still remains the fact that the cash transactions in FINA continue to be the cheapest for citizens. Incomes from business with the State cover business with Regos and pension... services, support to the state treasury and tax administration system, and they increased their share from 18% to 19.2% and increased their stake by 19% compared to the previous year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The revenues from service to banks reduced the share from 50.5% to 46.7% or 5%, which is logical since banks seek as much revenue as possible from paying their depositors directly to their accounts without intermediating FINA wherever possible. Income from customer services increased their share from 4.3% to 5.4% or by as much as 28% compared to the previous year. In this sector of customer services, I must point out that in his portfolio, he has imposed himself on a leading provider in electronic business and service information. In 2007, a number of new products were launched, e card, e-signature, Info bis portal, document management and others that are intensively developing new business trends and providing infrastructure that can improve business and reduce costs for many users. In the total income structure, the biggest increase was made from 159% and their share increased from 2.2 to 5.5%. In the cost structure, there were no significant deviations in the observed years if pension costs were excluded which could not be compared because there was no last year. On the basis of everything presented, the Club of Representatives and representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community suggests that this 2007 FINA Report is accepted with support for further efforts towards restructuring and adaptation, as well as towards further expansion of financial services, as FINA also contributes to strengthening the competitiveness of entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized craftsmen, and thus also national economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21028	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Perica Bukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21029	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Although in the 2007 FINA results, the report also speaks a lot of the change at the head of the Financial Agency, which was initiated at the beginning of the year by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I believe that the Financial Agency today must be evaluated in its total, and in this light we also assess the material business in the past 2007. The partial picture speaks of a negative performance in 2007, an increase in income by 3% but expenditure by 8% compared to 2006, and a negative balance of over 22 million kuna. They also worry about data from the financial report showing that the extended time of collection of the claim, and debt to suppliers on average 43 days shown for 2006 did not move better in 2007. However, the fact is that with the increase in the revenue of current business, the expenditure was less by 3% than planned, and the financial impact on the total balance created high retirement costs for the part of the employees, as we have already heard from the exposure to what 88 million kuna was spent. In light of these facts, financial indicators should also be assessed. In 2006, total income was 977 million kuna, while in 2007, total revenue increased to over a billion kuna, showing increased confidence in FINA, and the success of a series of running services that we have heard something about in these exhibitions so far. We can conclude that despite all the problems in which FINA was successfully transformed on the market, and that it is a market-oriented monetary institution. It should not be forgotten how the conversion began six years ago, and even in March 2002, all business entities had open accounts and performed all the material business through today's FINA. The amendments to the Law on Payments in 2002 and the adoption of the FINA Financial Agency Act were in a completely different position than it has ever been in its almost half-century history. Many claimed that in the new terms of FINA, there is little chance of survival in the competition, but the Financial Agency has continued to win the game and to launch new products from year to year and retain the trust of the old, and to win new users of its services. In 2007 FINA launched 6 new programs with a successful implementation of a dozen more projects, of which it is certainly the most important as we heard HITRO.HR which opened 40 new businesses in Croatia. All this with the detention of all employees whose number is only reduced by the retirement of workers who have obtained the conditions for retirement. As FINA has 38 per cent market share of kuna payments, 55 per cent of the market for payment of citizens with all other services it is clear that the Financial Agency has maintained a market position that allows even more quality results in the capital market. For all of these reasons, I believe that, by supporting the 2007 Financial Report of FINA, we are providing quality support in the Croatian economy, and we expect, in addition to these new problems in the financial market, we expect to keep the volume of business and net profits in the business report for the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21030	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's when we talk about FINA, FINA is a company that came from one, a transformation from ZAPA, from a system that, in my deep conviction in the early 1990s, was much even more advanced than it is now, FINA. What I would particularly comment on today is the financial result. When I read this report is the fact that the result for 2007, although I agree with you, it's a little weird that we're discussing the 2007 report, it's almost a year off in 2008. It could have been done three, four, five months ago if some things were fresher. A result that is not in line with the plans set up by the FINA Management and Supervisory Board for 2007 and a loss of 22 million kuna is achieved. I also see the report in several places that explains it with this retirement of a certain number of people, and it seems to me to be some excuse, as if it could not have been planned, as if it had happened suddenly, as if it had not been known that a certain part of the people would have to retire and when it was not a business decision with which each responsible management and each supervisory board must count on these things to plan results for the following year. And that's why I'm not happy to see that the plan always says such a big difference. So the plan is 8 million profits, and the loss at the end of the year is 22 million. There is no such business change that will happen without you being able to predict it a year in advance, and it's so significant. It's about eighty-something million kunas. When we look at the balance sheet a little bit more carefully, since it is shown at the end of the report, the costs related to employees are not exactly raised by 80 million kuna, but by 40 million kuna, so the whole truth about these additional costs and cannot be the only reason for this loss. What I want to point out here, which is that FINA lost one position after a long number of years, which is that she had the most business dealing with cash and other monetary affairs. There is a bank that has been taken over by the primate and FINA is no longer the leader and is no longer the most accessible in these services to Croatian citizens. This is seen in a report where jobs fall, meaning with cash where around 30 million kuna is less traffic than it was in 2006. Despite the fact that certain new services have been introduced and despite the fact that all these new services have failed to compensate for the drop in revenue in this part, it means business towards the citizenship and business of the bank service because banks are opening their own offices, and FINA has failed to compete as someone who could develop its network further. What I would still point out, which is one thing that may not have been mentioned to us during the debate, which is the story about the purchase of ZAPI, or the Business Research Institute, and that's one thing, let's say it's a illogical thing that happened in the privatisation of the 1990s that ZAPI de facto came from the databases of FINA, so the private entrepreneur developed his firm from what was once ZAP, so after that FINA, it didn't take advantage of that space and now after 15 years or more ZAPI buys from media information for 25 to 30 million kuna. And the other thing that's very strange here, we all know what kind of privatisation ZAPI was involved in, and it's about the island of knowledge Kolocep where ZAPI bought Kolocep with cooperation with certain associations and got the championship in front of certain hotelers who wanted to invest money, and we all know how that story ended after a year and a few days. I'm not going to comment now on the fact that the owner of ZAPI was mentioned and as one of the potential candidates to enter FINA and whether it's all connected together, it's going to be possible for our citizens to conclude for themselves, but here's a paradox that FINA buys something that she herself could and develop 15 years ago. After all, I want an institution like this to succeed honestly. I think there's a need for her, and I hope that the results in the next period will be better than they did last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21032	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21033	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. FINA is recognised as a provider of financial administrative and information services. It changes its business from year to year by adapting to market conditions and changes primarily in the banking system and the payment system. In 2007, a number of new products were presented. From Info bis service that allows access to information, business performance as well as comparison of business data, as well as Croatian economy as a whole. FINA free information service option on financial investment, FINA accounting service, a service positioning FINA on the market as a service provider, management of financial and financial books, opening a network of exchange offices, an application for electronic signature intended for private and business users. In 2007, the process of certification of the quality management system according to ISO 9001, thus proving that the FINA has a well-organised business system in which all procedural systems are signed and described, in which there is no overlapping and precisely who is responsible and who is responsible. This is a prerequisite for good business and an indication that FINA has the potential for further reforms and good market positioning. Its modern orientation of FINA also shows through the development of the education centre. In the centre is conducted education for employees of FINA and external participants from different fields of information knowledge and communication and presentation skills. In view of the qualification structure of employees, of which 64% of them are medium-sized professionals, additional expertise could increase the competitiveness and productivity of FINA and therefore support the development and strengthening of the education centre. The 2007 FINA Business Report provides a quality overview of the overall business from a financial and content aspect. Business changes, modernizes and improves. The financial result shows that further reforms and innovation in work are needed. All of this is recognized, there's progress and there's a good way to go, and that's why I accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21034	Thank you. Final review, Mr. Regvar. Here you go. Would you like some? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21035	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This administration headed with me was appointed on February 25th of this year. For this reason, I focused exclusively on the agenda point, and this is the 2007 Financial Agency Business Report. Most speakers, or participants in the debate, have confirmed what is today, that FINA is a respectable financial institution and that it will definitely remain that way with the objective difficulties mentioned here. Payments down. Not only because the banks have been given the opportunity since 2002 to deal with payment traffic, but because of the traditional form of payment, they are definitely slowly going to the art store of history. Informants, I'm not, says the estimate in five years that payment traffic in this form will not be and everything will be electronic. So that's the part that goes into the past, although at this point it makes a big percentage in the revenues of the Financial Agency. The mention was cash. The processing of cash can also deal with banks, however it is not a criticism of banks, but banks do not work and do not still have to work according to Croatian National Bank guidelines. We are the only institution in the Republic of Croatia that is doing every step in the processing of almost money according to the rules of the game set by the Croatian National Bank, and not all banks, the smaller part, but in terms of volume and importance in Croatia are doing the job, and will be doing it according to the Croatian National Bank's guidelines only as of 1 January 2010. So I think I gave the answer to that part too, that in a business called FINA's cash business there are no instruments to jump in, or to keep that part that until a few years ago was hers. These are the known facts of the past years. These trends in payment and cash continue, however, to the point, i.e. the finding that the Financial Agency does not have strategic thinking at the moment, the strategic rights of further movements do not stand. We've got him, but we don't have him in formal form, we don't have him in the act. Six projects are ready for a session of the Supervisory Board, which must be held by 20 December of this year, and we hope that the Supervisory Board will give the green light to go into implementation, i.e. to implement these projects. I must not talk about them because they have only got the green light in terms that management can go into them, and the results will be known, or the results of what is relevant in these documents will be known after the meeting of the Supervisory Board. My personal belief that it doesn't have to be true, but the belief of the business environment with which we work every day are clients, these are citizens individually, these are business entities of the financial institution, and the rest is that FINA definitely has its place under the sun tentary perhaps said, and that it has its perspective with certain adjustments in behavior, in an organization which again is related to projects that I said would be available to the public after 20 December. The problem further and the value added tax, as banks are not burdened by its accounting, by accounting at that price. We are. Each of our services that is identical to the banking service is subject to value added tax. However, the owner, the state, recognised the FINA handicap and, from 1.1 next year, we'll be even with the banks. So banks will also have to charge value added tax. The only thing I didn't understand was the question of an esteemed representative who was the first to take part in the debate, that the FINA did not serve to honor her role in unless I was wrong, privatization, and I think the gentleman later explained it when he mentioned ZAP, right? Coming to FINA, the management heard stories that we immediately checked, and in no written document nor standing anywhere, there's no written trace, there's nothing about any intention that FINA should have bought ZAP. However, through insight into other things, this administration has interrupted all relations with the ZAP, not for these reasons, but for some other reasons, which are relevant, certain relevant institutions are already being examined. So fina with zap has absolutely nothing. The highest quality, the best and most accurate and in real time however you like, the data on our economy has a FINA. Unfortunately, some of these data come in a strange way, but again, it will be dealt with by the institutions of a system that will say whether it is the right way or not. Once again and at last, I can thank you for your participation in the debate, because, in my opinion, from all the discussions, it has come to my conclusion that FINA is a respectable institution with certain actions, co-operation and that it will remain that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21036	I thank the head of the board of directors of FINA, Mr. Reguar. And I am concluding a debate on the Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency for 2007. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-26-0.u21037	Eight, Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency for 2007. The applicant shall be the FINA Supervisory Board. The debate is closed. I am voting in conclusion in line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, which reads: "The Annual report on the operations of the Financial Agency for 2007. A year.". Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes with 77 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 37 against. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're going back to work. We move to the agenda point - Annual report on the work of the national lawyers in 2007, Carrier: State attorney of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of Article 3. The Law on State's Attorney's Office delivered the Annual Work Report. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The government delivered an opinion. Do the proposing representatives want to do so? Yeah. Mr. Mladen Bajic, chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
