ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15304	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This is the third report submitted by the Government to the Croatian Parliament on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands and previous reports were from 2004 to 2005 and they were accepted at the 24th session of the Croatian Parliament, which was held on 9 February 2007. The report was also accepted for 2006 at the 27th session of the Croatian Parliament, which was held on 5 October 2007. This report is an analytical review of the implementation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's policy for the term of office between 2003 and 2007, according to which the evaluation of the Adriatic and maritime orientations of the country, the development and the increased concern of islands is set as a priority, and also the criteria of accelerated systemic development, in principle of sustainability, are set as criteria and measures for the development of the whole country. In the development of the island, more than one billion kuna from the position of the state budget is invested from the state budget each year, so the ministries and bodies of the state administration and the public sector for infrastructure, so transport infrastructure, ports, roads, roads, roads, municipal water supply, disposal, social infrastructure, health, social care, education, kindergartens, economy, agriculture, fisheries, aquaculture, tourism, culture, sport, sacral heritage, forestry, subsidies, lending etc., etc. I think that this effort and these measures implemented are clearly visible through the numerous effects and statistics that show a positive trend in the advancement of life on our islands and their development during 2007, clearly and in previous years. It is continued with the introduction of improvements in the segment of the transport connection of the island to the mainland and the island, the rehabilitation and construction of existing and new ports on the coast and on the islands. It is continued with investments in the development of the economy as an important factor in the development of the island's environments and the reduction of the island's depopulation. Investments from the Ministry of Economy have been increased. According to data from income tax on islands, the continued positive trend of the island's development is evident through an increase in the number of employees and those receiving revenues compared to previous years. New schools have been built, new gyms have been built, kindergartens, homes for older people or have been renovated, renovated and introduced already existing such facilities. It is introduced into remote schools on individual islands through the E island project. In addition to all of this, such a taxicab, care is reflected through the creation of a number of legal and sublegal regulations covering areas where islands are not a separate unit, but certain provisions of these regulations are very important for their sustainable development. The fact is that some islands or their areas have reached a significant level of development, but clearly that we cannot stop there but that the aim is to create conditions for the survival of the island's population and to enable their quality life on our islands. In 2007, the state invested a billion 889 million 357 thousand and 751 kuna in the islands. The conditions of life of the island's population have been significantly improved by introducing and implementing a number of measures. One of the key factors in improving the quality of life on islands is certainly the transport connection or removal of long-term isolation by improving the island's transport connections, recovery and reconstruction of existing and construction of new ports. In this respect, a total of 40 ports and 16 ports that are not in maritime transport have been renovated and constructed since 2004, totalling 56 ports for which 204 million kuna has been spent. In order to improve the quality of the island's connection with land and island, modernized maritime transport has been improved. The improvements relate to high-speed and ferry lines, as well as the introduction of night lines. We know that we have also introduced night lines that go after 23 hours and before 5 a.m. which increase the frequency on these most frequent lines, but it is possible to leave and return from the island, so to speak, and night after 23 hours and before 5 a.m. which is important and important. These night lines were introduced for Cres, Losinj, Pag, Ugljan, Brač, Hvar, Korčula, and the total maritime connection of the largest Croatian islands with the mainland has been improved. That the impact of this state of care on islands is really great, indicate data on the number of other projects implemented during the period 2004-2007 were built. So, for example. 37 water supply systems were built, but 38 disposal systems were built, education facilities 31.5 kindergartens were built, 34 health facilities and 10 social care facilities, i.e. social care facilities. When it comes to legislative activity, then we must say that the ministry drafted one regulation in 2007. One regulation, two regulations and participated in making clearly several documents of importance for further development of Croatian islands. I will mention the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the conditions of criteria, heights and way of exercising the right to grant state aid to islands and island employers for the preservation of jobs. Regulation on the conditions, criteria and method of labelling of the product with the label of the Croatian island product. Regulation on the conditions, criteria and method of exercising the right to free public island road transport. State programme for the protection and use of small occasionally populated and uninhabited islands and the surrounding sea. A strategy to develop the nautical tourism of the Republic of Croatia, as it is also made. The strategy for the use of ingested oil gas on islands and the programme for the use of ingested oil gas on islands from 2008 to 2012 As you know from the beginning of the last term, the government decided in 2004 to regulate and regulate relations in the part relating to the sale of real estate on small and uninhabited islands, and decided to intervene through amendments and additions to the Law on Islands by regulating the Institute of First Buys in favour of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. units of regional and local self-government. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure as a supporter once a year publishes a public call for the granting of small value to island employers for the purpose of preserving jobs and opening up clear new jobs, and I will say that for the first time on a public call published in 20.9.2006, the second was 22.7.2007, so 294 of them came to the second public call and 244 employers met the call and the conditions and criteria laid down and obtained the right to state support of small value for 4 thousand 220 workers in total of 12 million 171 thousand kuna. The fact is that there has been an increase in the interest of island employers in relation to the first public call and that State investments have almost doubled in this small-value grant. In 2006, 185 employers were entitled to state support for 2854, with 7 million 866 thousand kuna allocated, and in 2007, as I said the right to the same state support, 244 employers were granted 4000 220 employees, which was allocated from the state budget, and 12 million 171 thousand 274 kuna was allocated from the state budget. And something that I also find important to highlight and say, which is that on 14 November 2007 in Split, there was a promotion of the presentation and the award of the term "Croatian island product". The project "Croatian island product" is designed to promote the development of island production, raise the level of quality of island product, which must include features of island tradition, development of research work, innovation and promotion of Croatian islands as areas of special interest of the Republic of Croatia, and in order to clearly position quality island products on the domestic but very foreign market. Because we know that a large number of tourists visit our islands as well and through this vision will be promoted and this Croatian island product is promoted in the world as well. This Croatian island product was allocated to 14 island producers on 14 November 2007, so for 14 island producers they received this label and 22 products. Clearly, this action to say so continues and has indeed come across a very positive and large echo with island producers, which they are really positioning to say, as quality producers, producers who are doing something that is specific to one part of our Croatia and clearly doing quality work. Here is the fact and it is undeniable that the implementation of the policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the segment of the development of the island is designed to protect existing values, so firstly to protect existing values, preserve all resources on the islands, but it is very economic and social progress and development on the islands, and this report with this concrete information on the implementation of the funds you have clearly invested on the benches and what you have looked at, therefore clearly proof of a positive shift on Croatian islands because significant steps have been made forward towards the development and preservation of life of islands. I said it clearly before at the beginning, and I will repeat it now and finally, it is not enough and it is not enough, and it should not be stopped there, in the islands of Croatia should continue to invest and all in order not only to retain but also to return to life on the islands. In order for this to happen clearly, the conditions of life on the islands must be as close as possible to saying so or as much as possible to the conditions of life on land. It's not easy or easy, but it's what we're trying to do. Here, Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15305	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15306	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report on the effects on the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2007. The report is submitted by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Infrastructure, and includes, in addition to the items of this Ministry and the investments of all other ministries, funds, international institutions, and public enterprises, as well as credit funds placed on islands in the past period. The Adriatic is the largest strategic potential, the strategic orientation of Croatian development policy. The government of the Republic of Croatia sees the creation of synergy of all activities on the coast and islands related to the exploitation of the sea, of course as potential. Such synergy should be successfully directed to be a multiplier for the entire Croatian economy, with special attention to the protection of the sea and the marine environment, by applying the highest world standards and criteria. That is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing with many measures to implement the Law on Islands and other positive regulations. I would like to remind you that during the past term, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has invested considerable financial resources in the modernisation of port ports in order to increase port capacity, service quality and competitiveness. Many ports and ports have been renovated, i.e. many ports and ports, the Adriatic fleet has been restored, a significant increase in the number of ferry lines, we say by about 110 thousand nautical miles, it is important to increase the island's integration with the mainland, especially the night lines that have made it possible to use them. Some 1.3 billion kunas were invested in the development of the island annually, large transport subsidies for both road line and water subsidies, as well as for the construction of 110 municipal and social infrastructure facilities on islands in the three-year period from 2004 to 2007. All these investments feel good to our islanders, because they've touched all the islands of all seven island counties. The report shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has continued significant investments in improving the transport integration of the island with the mainland, but also in building and refurbishing existing waterfronts, as well as in building new islands and islands. Then, by increasing the subsidies of maritime road transport and drinking water subsidies, further allocation of island tickets or vignettes, as well as the introduction of new, faster, more comfortable ships. In one word, our islands were never better connected to the mainland. Investments have also continued to be almost doubled in economic development. 244 employers are users of support for 4 000 220 workers, and the amount of support is more than 12 million kuna. It is also continued with a program to build municipal and social structures on islands, new schools, halls, kindergartens, homes for older or new or renovated and the application of remote schools was introduced. All these significant investments in islands due to the long-standing neglect and desertity of our islands have created only basic preconditions for development to be accelerated. It is important to point out from this report for the past period and legislative activities, namely the adoption of a Regulation on conditions and criteria, the height and the way in which state aid is granted to small-scale island employers for the preservation of jobs, whose aim was to encourage the development of the island economy through incentives for the employment of the island's population, in particular the development of the island's small economy, in the segment of indigenous island activities. The results of the adoption of this Regulation are 262 craftsmen on islands of more than and a thousand 253 employees, which is very significant. The second is the Regulation on the terms, criteria and method of labelling of the product with the label Croatian island product, which allowed support for activities that make island development sustainable, in particular products marked Croatian island product. The acquisition and use of the mark was prescribed by the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, with the consent of other state institutions. The code of the Croatian island product is allocated to 14 island producers and 22 products. The third is the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and way of exercising the right to free public island transport which has established the conditions and arrangements, which allowed the exercise of the right to free public island, road transport of pupils, students, pensioners and disabled persons. The adoption of a national programme for the protection and use of small occasionally populated and uninhabited islands and the surrounding sea is also highlighted. It is a document that contains many information about islands, makes the information base and informative structure about the present and future of an island and island group. It is actually Atlas of Croatian Islands which represents a quality basis for defining the opinion of the use or use of real estate on the Croatian Islands. Significant activities in law enforcement were made by introducing first purchase institutes for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia units of local and regional self-government, which was made in cooperation with the State Geodetic Authority. Here's the report that the Government of the Republic of Croatia invested in the development of the island 1.9 billion kuna and the funds of legal persons in 2007. Of which, direct investment in State budget grants amounts to 1 billion 167.5 million kuna and credits are 722.8 million kuna. It is clear that the funds are invested precisely in projects that achieve the objectives set by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this segment, which are the removal of negative demographic movements, the reduction of regional differences, the improvement of living conditions identified through better and transport connections, as well as many facilities of social and municipal infrastructures and subsidies, but also the acceleration of economic and social development and others. Investments have been significantly increased, but even more important is the coherence and synergy of all state institutions. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports this report, because it is detailed, quality and shows the coherence of the programme and its realization. The results are visible through the concrete projects that are listed in the annex, and are directed or realised precisely for our islanders. And our islands are 117 thousand, 109 constantly populated on the islands of the Croatian Adriatic and account for 2.76% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. They live in seven island counties. Zadar County is one of the most numerous islands, and every 7 inhabitants of Dubrovnik-Neretva County live on the island, Primorje Goranska has the largest absolute number of islanders. And all of them have received projects from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and they all feel the effects of implementing the Law on Islands and, as the minister said, it continues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15307	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15308	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I thank you, Mr. Minister, that you are personally here today to discuss this report with us, it is a rare honor, most often we communicate at the level of state secretary or staff of individual ministries, and that is for every commendation, that we have the opportunity to communicate directly with you here. My colleague Marinovic said a huge number of praises, and I agree with a large part of what you said, but I haven't heard a single review. So I will allow myself to discuss both the good and the bad in this report. The island law as such is for every praise, it deserves a high grade, but it's really a matter of implementation of that law, did we really do everything we could and should have done. Namely, I am islanders, and I am from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, now we hear, there are just the most islanders warning that unfortunately party colors play an increasingly significant role in investing in various projects on the islands, which was not good and it was not the intensity of the Island Law, it is exactly the opposite of what we wanted to achieve through the Island Law, the Law on Mountains and Mountains, etc.. We heard, $1.9 billion invested in islands, the amount for every praise. But if you analyze that report a little bit, then you'll see that 720 million kuna seems to me to be HABOR's loans. So I ask you, is that help? That amount will be paid back by those who receive the loans. The real help of the state is where? At the level of the interest difference which must be returned between HABOR's loans and those from some commercial bank. Let's be honest, so let's discuss it, that's the real help. Then, in this report there are also a number of tricks, there are all kinds of things, police vehicles, air conditioning in the post office, you remember last year even radar installed on the islands were help to the islanders. Really in the report should stand, that aid that leads to the unification of the chances of the islanders and of us living on land. It's the real help. But a police vehicle would probably get there and without the island law, I hope. When speaking of equating the bar, it would be very good to compare the investments per capital, e.g. in my River, ministers in your Zadar or in certain islands, it would be interesting to see the per capital, how much we really helped, invested in certain areas. Capital investments are listed, they're good, they're useful, they're important. But let's say capital investment in health care, I'm a doctor, so I'll talk a little bit more about them. I can only commend them, but at the same time, we need to discuss some elements that are not in the report at all. The islands lack doctors, the availability of specialists, the functioning of emergency medical care, the number of medical teams in the course of the summer when the number of inhabitants on some islands is tenfold, there is not a single word in this report. The National Development Programme of the island of '97. For years, he predicted the need for additional standards, specialist reviews and so forth. I don't know if the ministry has ever formed a team that would begin to analyze this real situation and then try to solve these problems that we've been dragging through various programs, reports, etc. for 10 years. What about the virtual infirmary? Let's say there's Mr. Kapelli, he knows that the administrative area of Cres, 3,000 inhabitants, 2959, seems to me, how many doctors of general practice? Two! Let something happen in Dragozetić, some sort of intervention, let traffic happen on the other side of the island, what about health care on the island? All day practically others can't get into medical intervention, get help. Well, I'm a cartoon now, this is an extreme, but let's just let it be discussed and my fellow doctors are in big trouble in summer, and they're in big trouble. Detention of island residents, some Mediterranean countries have programmes to see their stay in the island’s state service as a priority for employment and for progress in the profession, as they progress in the profession. I think that Mr. Ministers should try some of these experiences and we should transfer to our practical work and advocate that on the islands, not only keep but bring young experts, I know that many young doctors are reluctant to go to the islands, because they believe that after many years when they return that they are even a little discriminatory, they have no possibility of progress, they cannot regularly monitor what is happening in the profession etc.. I think we should all do that not only doctors, but all the other young experts, we actually support here, that they have essentially to carry out, not discrimination, but positive discrimination when it comes to these young people. The problem of small islands that fail to fight for funds in competition with large islands, do not have enough personnel, do not know how they do not have enough connections, spaghetti and so on. The state itself should have some priorities in its programmes foresaw. Let's say, I don't know, water for all the islands to be one systematic, one systematic solution in which direction we all have to work together. It's a basic prerequisite for living on those islands. Did, did we manage some of the island's problems... According to the European Union, how much have we actually helped these people on the islands? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is the coordination of state, regional and local authorities on individual projects? There's coordination, there's cooperation. Of course there is. But it seems to me it should be a lot, a lot more. The European Union, you know, is very much helping so-called peripheral areas. The islands fall within such areas, and surely they should draw much more funding from Brussels in the future. It's our mutual obligation. It should certainly be commended for the programme of co-financing of the staff of island employers, employees of employers. The employers are co-financed. That's a very good thing. That's what everybody praises. The project of the Croatian island product the colleague spoke of also boasts. Everyone's happy, but one big, one big objection. He says, "The manufacturers know about it clearly," but there is no Mr. Minister of Correct Marketing HOP. He's gone. We have to help them. Marketing is, it's not enough for the manufacturer to praise, to get help. We all need to know that. In Italy, the mountain product that comes from the Alps is something that each Italian particularly appreciates. It has a double, triple price. That's where we have to make all the big steps in marketing these products. So you did a good thing, and no one knows about it. Olive oil as one of these products, I helped a little EPP to work and sell these products in one action in the Primorje-Goran County. And I sell olive oil and I ask a man, on his bottle is "Extra virgin olive oil". And I ask him who controlled his oil quality so he could afford it to stand on his bottle? He says, "No one." That is, my oil is the best oil. It must belong to an extra virgin. I believe it's good oil. But he must have proof that it belongs to that category. No one informed him, no one controlled him or helped him. No one advised him that if he eventually belongs to a virgin how to reach extra virgin level and so forth? Therefore, colleagues and colleagues have much to do to help, to really help our islanders. Yes, the first significant steps have been made, but there are still many steps that we still need to take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15309	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is the Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15310	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague who's misrepresented the situation because the government really gives the islands what they've never seen before. Anyone who sails the islands can be sure of that. But the incorrect quote is next. He says: "The lack of doctors on islands, specialist teams do not come. From land, lack of doctors, infirmarys and so on." That is not true. Specialist teams come from the area health homes regularly. Ship transports are organized. Sanitation ships are organized. Emergency medical attention has been arranged on the islands. The telemedicine link is in motion, and the ministry is putting huge money and effort into it. Finally, the lack of a doctor is not specific to the islands, but to the whole of Croatia. The same is the standard of doctors on islands and on land, with the doctor’s standards on islands being more favourable, so the picture of the deficiency is actually to blame. A team is sent there to a small population. So it's incorrect that there aren't enough of them. It's true there's enough. That they have fewer insurance than on land and that's a significant incentive measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15311	Thank you. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Gary Capelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15312	Dear Vice President, here's because I'm in a way and I was called to think it's okay to say, first of all, I don't agree with Mr. Representative who said they're party colors, giving priority to investment. That's incorrect. And I'll ask that later that the minister, someone to say exactly how much on the Krka example in, has separated so where HDZ is not in power, you'll see what the figures are that has nothing to do with party colors. Secondly, if there wasn't an island administration today, we wouldn't have dialysis on Rab or Losinj. It was for the islands that launched and gave the first funds, the initiative, and that's why we have it today. Number 3 which is very important by law passed in the Assembly last year is the return of health homes on islands. Therefore, we will certainly improve what the county is unable to do at the moment. To give what homes of health once had on the islands. And the third thing Mr. Hebrang said was telemedicine. They've been refurbished with funds just now, the island administrations, all the hospitals on the islands have been renovated. At least I can say in the small town of Losinj that you, that this ministry is gone. And that was done by the Ministry before I was mayor of the coalition. The SDP, which is a major asset. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15313	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15314	Mr. Vice President, I think Article 209 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. What Mr. Capelli said wasn't a correction. This has already been a small debate. So please, when you interrupt us, when we're not correcting the quote, break this other side.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15315	I tolerate others. And we tolerate and we think that this correction doesn't exist, this violation of your Rules of Procedure has nothing to do with it because it's common, and it's from you personally. We're crossing... [[But stop me.]] We're moving on to the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go. I won't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15316	I'll take your word for it. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. Although this point is a report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act, the report we received and the discussions that were held in the Croatian Parliament in the previous years are actually one annual review of the state of the Croatian islands. It includes and should cover all aspects of life on the islands and, of course, where other laws that are more or less adapted or respect the specificities of our islands apply, other than the Island Act. The SDP club voted in favour of this report over the past years and will do so this year. Of course, though, this does not mean that there are no objections to the content of the report itself. The report is more or less correct. It slightly but not rudely embellishes the picture of the situation on the islands, but this beauty is not excessive, for example, when we get data on economic movements, inflation, standards, crime, etc. I would absolutely not want this topic to be discussed in a way that we all say that the islands are our great wealth, and that their potential has been poorly exploited as it has been in many other segments of society. And then when the debate is over, let's forget about the islands and the islanders and take care of them, let's leave them to one office at the Ministry of the Sea and a few representatives who mention the islands here and there. I think this debate needs to be reminded of some of the objectives of the 1997 National Development Programme. It was summed up in a sentence in the introduction – to maintain life, to promote demographic rebirth and economic progress, and to preserve the harmony of unsurpassed natural values. Today, at a distance of 10, 11 years, we can say that life has been maintained, that demographic renaissance is not encouraged, that economic progress has been made that follows the progress of the entire society, and that the struggle to preserve unsurpassed natural values is a lasting process because there are always natural dangers, fires, pollution of the sea and similar or other unnatural ones, or that we say the other natural ones that can most often be seen in games, games with spatial plans. So we can be half satisfied, but still content. And now a review of the report. The amount of billions and 889 million kunas invested by the state in the development of the island is indicated. Some items could certainly have left out, for example, the editing of the military, the purchase of air conditioning in the post office and similar items that did not belong in this document and which really did not invest in the islands at least in this sense that this should be. But anyway, they come in handy to make this total a little bit bigger because it's nicer to hear. It should also be said that more than a third, i.e. 722 million kuna, refers to loans to which those who have received them will return. It will even pay back a little more, because it will return interest and that the investment of the state is the difference between the interest and the commercial interest. It should be said that EUR 371 million refers to the subsidies of shipping and that is the true specificity of the island compared to the rest of the country. Despite the rise in fuel prices, this item has not been increased in this year's budget. Also, tax on income to municipalities and cities 51 million kuna measures are former coalition governments. But it's also something that's already been earned on the islands. Therefore, it remains for the islanders, or units of local self-government. These three items account for more than half of the total amount shown here. This display does not show how much more or more specifically invested in the islands compared to the number of inhabitants or other criteria in relation to other parts of Croatia, because roads are being repaired in other parts of Croatia, schools are being built in other parts of Croatia and so on, and let's see if that share is greater or smaller than the number of inhabitants. Also, as regards investment in infrastructure, it is clear that infrastructure is not only built for those people who live there in winter, but based on the number that uses it when it's the most people, so summer. When the number of inhabitants on some islands, Mr Doric mentioned 10, and on some islands 25 times larger. Then what is per capital for infrastructure for those who use it, who use it only in summer or for those who use it when it is the least. Because if it starts to run out of electricity, there's no water and there's no other problems, and there's no tourists coming, so we won't have any tourism. So for the island of Vir, for example, about 300 million kuna should be invested to address the issue of disposal. The amount of HRK 300 million is equal to the total amount invested in the infrastructure on all islands this year. The Vir has about two, three and a few thousand inhabitants. But in the summer there are 50,000 inhabitants and of course the investment for infrastructure for that purpose should be the same as in the city of 50,000 inhabitants. Therefore, this report unfortunately does not offer an answer which is apart from subsidies for the transport of ships, which the islands received especially and more compared to other parts of Croatia. And that, in future reports, may need to be more emphasized. So these numbers can also be read in several ways, there is no room for euphoria because one thing is certain. Despite the fact that money is said to be invested more and more, the danger is that people on the islands are getting smaller and smaller. What should be commended is investment in a better transport connection, in new ships and ports. Traffic connection is looking at the overall satisfactory level, although there is probably a need to introduce another departure somewhere, changes on Sundays in an hour were, for example, on Drvenik, and it would be good to meet those real requirements. How after this very good seasonal sailing order would not come too modest outside the seasonal sailing order. By introducing night lines for some islands, we have come to a situation where we are no longer talking about the categories of connection of the island, but about the category of integration of the island with the mainland. Some islands after the introduction of these lines really work as the suburbs of the nearest cities on land. What should be highlighted from concrete priorities in the infrastructure is the construction of Stinica port, which would better connect Rab island with the mainland. Addressing the port issue in Makarska. Since a recently arranged port in Sumartin would not have been left without an effect, because ships that sail from there must have landed somewhere. If they can sail better ships here, they can't dock better ships because the dock remains old. This arrangement of the port in Brestova for this line of Brestova – Porozin which connects the islands Cres and Krk, Cres and Losinj. From the new lines, I would like to highlight the need for the night departure of Split – Old Town, and another fast line for the island of Vis, where the cost may be combined with the number of departures per week, not every day, but to enable the island of Hvar to be able to do the night line where the most inhabitants live until at least, until this road is fixed from Jelsa to Sucurje. The next step may also be to reduce the cost of transporting vehicles by ferry and for a wider circle of citizens than those living on islands, especially for companies, thus reducing the difference between life costs and investment costs on islands of up to 30% more than on land. The next significant item is 178 million kunas of Croatian roads. Now, though, I'm not going to go into those discussions about whether a mile of road is now bigger than it is, it costs more than it did before. I'd just like to point out two important roads on islands that are very big that cry out for reconstruction. Sucuraj and Jelsa on Hvar and Porozin – Veli Lošinj in general. So some of the shares were made on the islands of Cres and Losinj. I will also remind the Bračanas of the Prime Minister's promise to the road for the eastern part of the island of Brac to build the road Pucisca – Povlja – Sumartin. And now about something that is not an infrastructure or an accompanying investment in the infrastructure on which we are both the Ministry of the Sea and the Department of the Islands I commended and ok here. Unfortunately, it's a good thing the minister's here, but I'm missing more people from some other ministries now for me to look at the situation on the islands. It's not just the Ministry of the Sea, but perhaps, unfortunately, it's in charge and it's affecting life on the islands. The economy. The island economy is simple, and its structure compared to those on land is poor. Agriculture is abandoned, tourism is dominated by trade, shipping and some industry with the most significant refurbishment, fish processing, stone industry and winemaking. This quote is from a '97 national program. What happened in the meantime? Remont shipyards have mostly failed, Komiža fish factory has moved to Serbia, ZERP has been abolished, and this is to achieve the objectives of the programme that we have said, far more important than air conditioning in the post office or official police cars. What's going on in tourism. Private accommodation, where the islanders actually may have earned the most from tourism has weakened, now apartments on black, perhaps on black rented by others who, therefore, buy real estate, use it for 15 days and then rent it and the islanders do not benefit too much from it. We've sold more or less hotels, so it's a question of who makes the most money from tourism on the islands. Local authorities are trying to do something sometimes. Here, I'm personally glad that the Municipality of Bol this year won the Blue Flower, and I congratulate them. Agriculture. The sun's fragile soil and water shortages of ancient times mark the development of island farming. Where there were once vineyards and olive groves today is pine. In addition to vineyards and olive trees, sheep are grown on dry karst pastures. Everything else is going down. The report does not pay much attention either. I was a witness recently and in one place in Povlja erected a memorial load because the last one in that place was sold some year ago, so the children will now be able to hear about the loads only in the cheerleading songs I think. There will be other opportunities about fishing and fish processing. We're still tired of those long debates about ZERP. As for sheep and sheep, I was asked by the citizens of Upper Humc to convey their concerns about the concession procedure to three square kilometres of state land near Brač airport, where they have been operating for decades and before that, their ancestors have been running sheep and paying for the country's pastures. All they want right now is a dialogue with the state administration, that is, with the Ministry of Regional Development and with whoever wants a concession to see how the thing can prevail to be satisfied with the common interest so that the next time a large part of the government leaves us in Brač, they don't have a lamb. Health care. One of the most significant remarks is the non-implementation of the Health Protection Act, whose 2006 changes provide for counties to establish health homes on islands. It's not done to the greatest extent. That is what representatives of cities and municipalities, regardless of party membership, have warned the county authorities again independently of party membership, but it has not been implemented. We're not happy with the ministry's position to move the ball to the county. We want another clear view of whether it's going to be done? Should it be done or given up? Because moving a ball from state to county isn't very productive. This is how we witnessed the fact that the inhabitants of Old Town were banned from using a lab in Jelsa 10 kilometers away, and they had to go to Hvar for more than 20 kilometers even though the same person worked in Jelsa and Hvar. It was an experience over the island population and showing untouchableness in the system. Another important issue in health care is the arrangement of the helipad where there is a shift. However, the problem is that failures in such cases have the possibility of fatal consequences and there is certainly always a need to be warned. You don't have to deal with the fact that it takes someone to get to the hospital for seven hours. A new school year has recently begun. Each year, it is found that the number of students enrolled in schools is lower, so that in one completely opposite way, teaching standards on the number of students in one class are met. The island's population is getting older, so any idea and project that would put the existing hotel facilities empty in the winter function of student accommodation and teaching, perhaps bring the desired demographic renaissance because in this way they would live all 365 days a year on the islands. For the end, islands have been at a development crossroads for years. They can go through sustainable development, but they can also go by means of quick and unreasonable exploitation, which will lead them to poverty. There is also a great national interest in managing island development. This need is imposed on small remote islands and in the interior of larger islands by desertion and extinction. On the shores of larger islands where some settlements are placed on land level in the most developed in Croatia, it is imposed on a burdened island ecosystem and a slightly shaken island community. The island is a system that successfully manages only fully. Today most of the islands are split into several municipalities and parts are larger counties. There is no body, either elected by the citizens, or appointed by the government that manages the island as a whole. That body should primarily take over some powers that now have counties. Islands are developed equal parts of Croatia. They deserve equal initial developmental attention and role. It is necessary to stop the decomposition of islands and land, as well as the decomposition between islands, those large and those small. The islanders must exercise equal rights to education, health care and the safety of life as well as other citizens, and the state must ensure the conditions for this right to be achieved permanently. The SDP club will support this report this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15317	Thank you. We have 3 corrections of incorrect allegations. First, the esteemed representative of Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The first correction of the port of Brestova was rescheduled and could be agreed to by the ferry that came to the area. The second is the correction of the island road Mali Losinj-Porosina is being built. We can talk about whether or not we should build faster or slower, but we are talking about that it is being built and recently the Nerezina bypass is opened in the distance of 5 kilometers and 52 million kuna is being spent and another piece of cca is starting to be built in the 11 months, and in the beginning of the next year 12 kilometers on Cres, so it is being built, and we can possibly discuss the speed of its construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15319	Thank you. The second correction is Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15320	Mr. Vice President, counterpart Bauk said that the port in Makarska did not adequately invest in needs, and in Sumartin did. Well, colleague Bauk, you should have known that Makarska was not in the interest of new traffic routes to build a port in Makarska. It should be a new port in Drvenik for the whole area that would connect, not only Sumartin, but the whole of Hvar, Brač, Korčula and Pelješac, and by the tunnel Ravča they would all be on the highway, so the traffic strategy is something quite different from what you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15321	Thank you. No benching. No throwing, please. Take it easy. Well, we're just getting started. Third correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of the guilty allegations who wanted to reduce this excellent report. First, it is incorrect that economic movements are unfavourable, you see this from the data of increasing profits on islands and reducing unemployment and increasing the number of employees. That's the most important information on economic developments. Secondly, he says there is no comparison of investment in infrastructure towards the state. If we know that the islands live in 208% of the population of Croatia, and a billion 880 were invested, if so much was invested in the mainland part of Croatia, then 85% of the budget or 90 billion would have to be invested in infrastructure, and that is impossible. So the islands are invested just a lot, a lot more. And third, health homes in the county. The late Prime Minister Racan's government has made one tragic decision for the islands, which is to abolish the island's health homes. We immediately changed by coming to power that decision. New homes are currently being organised, but after the counties pay off their debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15323	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. It's time for the distinguished representative Damir Cain, on behalf of the club and IDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15324	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. That's right. Istria is a peninsula, but Istria has about a hundred islands. And unfortunately, I didn't notice these hundreds of islands being treated by this report on the effects of implementing the Islands Act in 2007. So, what do you say? Not so much about the report now, but about these projects that are given on the back pages of this report, which shows what is actually funding public money. I read that this year's budget islands will be allocated a billion 889 million kuna. It's cca about 270 million euros and it's cca somewhere 1.8, 1.7% of the state budget that Mr Hebrang mentioned earlier. We can see from this report that it's just that there's a lot of public money being funded here, from making sopea, I'm absolutely fine with it, I don't mind. I Cres, Lošinj experience Istrian islands, regardless of their geographical location in Primorje, actually being administrative in the Primorje-Gorski County. This is where the purchase of garbage cans is funded, co-financed employment, okay, editing the halls of some fraternities, this is where vehicles are purchased for municipal waste, all the way up to the financing costs of some music school. Otherwise, on page 19 of this report is given this table and there is visible exactly how many million kunas are singled out by or for individual, for islands, for individual county. Most of the funds, as we just heard, were received by residents of the island in the area of the Primorje-Gorski County, then some others, are not now important, but it is interesting that this report does not mention or specify the Istrian County. I said earlier that the Istrian County had hundreds of islands, but of those billions of 800 and I don't know how many million kunas, of those 270 million euros, of those hundreds of islands last year went down or came down only 114 thousand and 13 kuna and 68 limes to get a fire truck on Brijuni. Absolutely and that's better than nothing, but keeping in mind what a shameful state the Brijuni National Park is, in particular, the hotel building that is in some way part of the residence, I think that the island is also being allocated to certain funds. That's where the hotels go down, that's a shame. I claim that Brijuni today are the most deserted tourist complex in Istria County. What this island looked like before, even during Tudjman and Tito, is not to be mentioned, but what we have in that island today can be called shameful. It is clear that when we have this report on the effects of implementing the Law on Islands for 2007 that today we will lamentate how one billion kunas and so many million kunas is small money or big money, as the islands are neglected, as more isolated should be, we will lamentate about how difficult life on the islands is. I believe that, but no one will talk about how money should also be created somewhere, how money should be taken and how the whole group in this country lives on redistribution. I will say that Istria has, once again, a third time, a hundred islands, although uninhabited, that some real pearls and that in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, we allocate 10 billion kuna, and they're coming back, or I'm going to say that, say, the export of the Istrian County is twice as large as the Primorje-Gorski, which has 100,000 inhabitants more, but that the county is not mentioned in such reports. Clearly I am 100% to help our islanders. And perhaps there are far more Istrians who put the most into the budget per capita than those who will be the loudest in this debate, whether it be criticism, whether it be praise. Third time I say, a billion 889 million kunas that are provided in the state budget to help the islands, that's certainly one respectable money, and that should be acknowledged. Clearly, someone will say it's not enough, we all know it, but it's about something else. When did the gentlemen of our islands grow the fastest? I say our islands were the fastest to develop in that period since the 1970s. '90s. A year. So, the fastest they developed in the period when the Republic of Croatia was most decentralised, so when our islanders had the opportunity to de facto manage the money that was being made on their islands. It's actually the whole controversy that's supposed to be run in this country. Not that someone's giving you money on a drop, but the point is that the state is decentralisation and that everyone manages their own. And that should be all wisdom. It is clear that the state has to worry about what we hear, about ferry traffic, about what is being allocated to about 300 million kuna in this report, has to worry about these larger investments on the islands, for example. about the construction of the road from Cres to Losinj. I can't do this alone, the Losinians, or Cresani, but I don't know about the construction of an airport or a helipad, he has to worry about rebuilding some state building, for example. The court, making ports, but everything else should be left to the local self-government clearly in my court so that we can leave that local self-government to be able to dispose of its own resources autonomously. I think decentralisation in this country would be the greatest aid to our islands. Everything else is clear, but everything else if we don't decentralisation is going to have one way to call it, a political background or as someone said, even though it's probably Mr. Cappelli's going to correct me, if you're not my own, then you won't get one, even though I agree with this data that's here pointed out that the most money when it comes to islands went to the Primor-Gorski County where I don't know that executive authority isn't in charge, let me put it that way, HDZ. I am particularly pleased that the local population is allowed a discount on the so-called so-called. island tickets, you'd better put it on vinjets. Here we have information as to how many of these wines have been issued, but you would also take advantage of this opportunity by the minister in the benches and want to point out one injustice that no one knows except Istran. The Učka tunnel is paid 28 kuna for 5200 metres, as is the passage through that tunnel, and only comparisons are made for the new Rijeka-Zagreb road with some 160 kilometers, with 10 kilometers of tunnels, 10 kilometers of viaducts, these bridges or whatever it is called, pay 56 kuna, or the Mirna bridge is paid 14 kuna, and for such things, I think that elsewhere in Croatia no one pays anything, and that kind of humiliates us. A man would certainly be unjust when he speaks of this report and would not admit that that money of 800, 900 million kuna does not leave a mark. Clearly that money leaves a mark. I don't know these ferry lines, night lines are being introduced, as the minister said earlier in 2004 40 ports plus 16 ports, cost 204 million kuna. That islanders themselves could never have done. Tourism is fostered, population income is increased, etc. But there's also a big problem. In Croatia the ratio of employees and pensioners is 1.44:1 on the islands 1.29:1 shows this report, and this also says that many islanders earn income beyond what the state follows. Come on someone will say it's good, it's not good not to follow it because I don't believe in these numbers that only so few people if in Croatia the average is 1.44:1 is working on our islands. The problem of the island is certainly a huge number of drugs affected, although we understand each other is no better, it may be worse in one Pula, Zadar, Split, Rijeka what I know, Zagreb, but it may be more visible in these small areas and I think that Mr. Bajic, Benko, Minister Roncevic should take one of these actions as happened yesterday in Zagreb, both on the islands and in our coast when it comes to drugs, because everyone knows it will agree. So it's a conclusion. On page 35, you can see which county has islands. Istria County is dropping again, it's not fair. It says how much money goes for employment as well. And when it comes to Istria, I would ask the minister to sort of focus on Brione. It's a collapsing island. They're abandoned, they're crying out for investment, they're a pearl, everything in a more derusive state, I don't know how to express myself. They're kind of living off the residence, and it can't go on forever. This Kupelwirer on them that I don't know rooted malaria on those islands, made them a modern site not for aristocracy but for crown heads. For World War II, everything was ruined, and Tito didn't have to push too hard to set up a summer residence. After that he continued to use Tudjman, today there and Mesic, but I think this lack of investment will lead to the fact that this island will not only continue to be abandoned but will fail. I am 100% helped, but 100% I am also sure that the islanders would be most helped if the Republic of Croatia were decentralised as it is likely in due time it will not be, so again I do not know that executive authority, meaning the mayors, the mayors are hanging under the skirt of the minister of this or whether they will get or not to receive any money or any help from the state budget. For the end, man should ask himself what is the fate of the Golog Island. If Bajic remains so up-to-date and brings in a day of 95, 100 more people for informed talks many of whom will end up in custody, we will also have to seriously consider restoring the capacity of naked islands. On land we have nowhere else with so many people, existing capacities are full, and the island's Glog may have given up too soon. So much for letting the joke aside, I mean, that's what I use and more for something else. The place should be arranged as one memorial center where many, perhaps the vast majority of them are innocent. For the economy on the 35th side of this report we see that 20 million kunas have been targeted for 429 employers, it is 50 thousand kuna per project, per employer, it is not much, it is not enough, but it is still something and it should be possible to direct that report in that direction in some foreseeable period of time how to resurrect our destroyed small shipbuilding on those islands. Is it possible I do not know how to help restore the tourist segment, the fishing industry, how to restore the crafts etc. etc. Because only two or three months of the season can't live in Istria, or in the Primorje-Gorski County, or on the islands. All in all, the money that stands out is respectable, which we have to admit, and as much as the other clubs have no reason not to raise our hand and vote for the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15325	Thank you. We've finished discussing the clubs and we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15326	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. Now, first, mine are two fundamental objections to this report. The first is what was done in a way that was numbered, which was all invested in islands through various ministries, through various programs, without seeing the effects of it. We don't see any demographic data, the quality of life of the island's population, and a report has been made in a way that simply counts these projects structurally as if we're writing one budget and to see how much is invested in certain segments of the area. I must remind you that this amount of billions and 800 million kunas, when you say that figure seems really big, but on the islands lives 2.5 to 3% of the population of Croatia. It is 4% of Croatia's territorial area, and if they put it in line with the state budget, that amount is not too much for me. That amount can and must be greater. On the other hand, we don't see, I said no demographics. The fact is, every day of every year, there are fewer and fewer people living on the islands. For what? If you invest enough money to make them have a better life, that's why people leave the island. So I think it's not enough just to count the numbers and finally say, here's what we invested a billion and 800 in one year, that's a lot, but unfortunately life is no more quality than it was last year. When we look at the structure of billions and 800, that's what my colleague Bauk noticed, I don't think it's good when we're adding to that amount the loans that people have raised for their entrepreneurial ventures. So these 700 and some million kunas were not given by the state. It will bring people back through their projects over the years, and that means we can't accept that amount that way. The state didn't give a billion and 800, but the state gave a billion and 100. What I can say by looking at some periods, it's been since '99. By 2001, a billion and 600 million were invested. In two years 2004, 2 billion and 900 were invested, but I lost two or three years somewhere, so it is impossible that nothing was invested in those years. During those years, much has been invested in the islands, and I am sorry that they are not present in this report. On the other hand, I would agree with Mr. Cain. The fact that it stands is that again I say, unfortunately, the largest investment was made in the islands twenty-something years ago. At that time, most of the infrastructure was built, water was brought to larger islands, and since then, there has been no major investments of this type on the islands. What I would like to commend is certainly this subsidy made by people and I think that's the only one, 'let's say the real help that the islanders are getting today, which is that they can have a better traffic connection and that they can travel from island to land. So I would ask, perhaps in some future reports, when we consider all this, to give us one piece of information, what is the effect of that. Billion and 800, I said the amount, and it's not a billion and 800, the government has invested a billion and 100, please let us handle it. 700 million kunas have taken credit to the citizens. The government invested a billion and 100, which is less than last year. Please give us information, how many people are going back to the islands? What environment is created on islands, and what is the perspective of particularly young people on islands? When we look at ratios and that's the only thing we can do here in a little bit in the report, employee relations, pensioners, etc., then it's as if the ratio of those who make income on islands compared to those who make income in continental Croatia is higher. Well, of course it's bigger when people rent houses. This is not what we created with our strategy and these billions and 800, but it has been created by an environment so that people can deal with tourism. So we can't take credit for the effects on this report that 90% of people make their income. That's what nature gave us. That's not what the HDZ government gave us or the implementation of this report. On the other hand, what is also very interesting is the relationship between young and old people, i.e. the number of pensioners on islands and the number of pensioners in the Croatian mainland. Unfortunately, that diameter is unfavourable for the islands. Most older people stay on islands, young people leave. For what? Because, as I said at the beginning of my presentation, it is not enough just to count projects, to give incentives, there must be some strategy to create conditions for young people to stay on the island. Also, here I think a few colleagues would disagree with certain remarks that go, that it is important to go according to the party's criteria in the award of money for projects. Unfortunately, that's the case, today. But I have a series of examples where successful SDP opposition party chiefs have created a much better situation for their island than it has been in the past, no matter what HDZ is in power today. So it can be done if you have an idea and if you have a vision of how we could do it. Here, so briefly and I'd just like to ask, maybe next year the ministers to get one, I know that it's not perhaps in the area of your ministry, you go through the projects, and you can sum up what was given, but one review of how many people felt a certain effect, how many people were left on the island and what demographic structure, whether people were moving or people were going back to the islands. I think honestly, unfortunately today we always have a situation in Croatia such as the last 100 and 50, 200 years that people leave the island, which tells me that there are more pensioners than the mainland part of Croatia. We all agree that more investment needs to be made in the islands, more than this billion and 100 million kunas this government has invested through its incentives for life on the islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15327	Thank you. We have several replicas and one correction of an incorrect quote. But before that, I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. At 10.49. Correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15328	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Maras said that these results are positive, the result of what God has given us. It is true that God has given us much, however, these results, which we have talked about in this report, are the results created by investment, large investments in infrastructure, in order for such developments to occur in the number of employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15329	Thank you. And two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15330	Thank you. There's one saying that every man is an island, and we could turn that around and say that every island is a man. About the part where my colleague Maras was talking about demographic structure. It's a natural thing that it's very important to rebuild, demographically to restore islands. But we also have to ask a question without being misunderstood, in fact, who are people, by which we are potentially restoring the demographic structure. Will it be foreigners who buy in line, according to our laws, property, settle down, will it be some imported workforce that because of the great flood of tourist zones, that's the issue now of spatial plans and so on, cry out for that type of workforce that we don't have and we have to introduce, we don't have that kind of labour force? Whether we will be satisfied when the islands of demographic restoration, but no more, I say once again that it is misunderstood, with the autoctonic population, and thus changes the thousands of years of essence, customs, culture, traditions, the suicide of these islands. I think it is one question which, it is rhetorical nature set out to all of us that we should take care of because we can make attention, a valuable decision on the Croatian island product and lose it to the islands themselves to be authentic Croatian. I'm saying it doesn't sound pathetic, or misunderstood, no one's into Robisoniades or isolation. But the question I think is based on some practice and fears that exist on the islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15331	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15332	You're a colleague of Jurevic's right. It doesn't matter what or how demographically the islands will be restored and how people will live there, because of that, and I'm saying that it's important to have a vision and strategy that it's going to develop all together. There's one other thing. This is when we talk about investing in infrastructure and what I mentioned earlier about nature that gave us such a beautiful country and environment and that people can deal with tourism. More than the state invested in infrastructure, they invested citizens building their houses, invested local communities that had arranged their seats. So let's not show it as some big venture. I'd be much happier, I say more invested than these billions and 100 million kunas a year in the islands, and I'd be especially happy to have some concept of where it's going together.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15333	Thank you. And another replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernadette. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15334	Dear colleague Maras, you've given a great boost to demographic indicators. But I am sorry, however, that there are no two-way demographic movements in this report. So, solving the problem of municipal infrastructure, on the island is only a necessary condition for the island's population to remain. And when it comes to migration within a country, within a community of countries, when it is generally talked about migration, migration should be taken two-way rather than one-way. Unfortunately, we are always talking about the terms of the rest of the island's population and that can't be good. Unfortunately, people who live, who are born on the island, cannot choose all occupations as people in large cities. It is necessary for certain strategic activities, for certain strategic activities and for designing a development plan, to attract people from other parts of Croatia to go and live on the islands. Because that's in our best interest, too. And this will happen when these people from other parts of Croatia are on their islands, so they can buy at their new homes a property that will not be 2000 euros per square, which will be subsidized when they can get a job in the activities that are developing on that island and are being provided. And in that sense, I think it is important to think that not only is the island's population kept on the island, but it should also be included in the systematic development programme of the island and that the inhabitants of the entire Croatia begin to settle the islands. And that's in our best interests. That's what's in this country's best interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15335	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15336	Thank you very much. Dear Bernadette, you have well noticed that if we want the demographic development of our country we must think that the islands are not just for tourism, we cannot be hypocritical and say that we want people to settle on islands and then that the properties there cost more than in the vast majority of our country's works. We need to find ways to subsidize people who will commit, who will want to, who will see their perspective on the islands in 10, 15 years to subsidize that all of Croatia, or all the people in Croatia, can begin to settle on the islands. And on the other hand, when we talk about the amount of people who live, millions of people live on the islands in summer. So the investment that we're talking about right now is absolutely not enough to create infrastructure for the quality of that amount of people to live through summer months as well as throughout the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15337	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. It's the honorary representative of Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15338	Dear Vice President, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So today we are discussing the report on the effects of implementing the Law on Islands in 2007. However, I would like to remind you that in the Croatian Parliament on 26 March 99, a law on islands with an emphasis on the interest of the Republic of Croatia with special protection of the island was declared. Taking into account the fact that the positive effects of the implementation of the Island Act have been achieved and the efforts to remove the observed difficulties in its implementation and to introduce further improvements in the management of island development, the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Island Act was also drawn up from the Croatian Parliament in March 2006. Amendments and additions to the Island Act included the introduction of a new methodology for the definition of the island and their classification according to the recommendations of the International Hydrographic Organisation. Definition of the implementation of the sustainable development programme of the island. So more appropriate definition of the name and extension of the task of the Committee for the Islands of the Countys. Introducing compensation for the costs of own transport for disabled persons who cannot use public road transport services. A clearer and more precise definition of the provisions relating to game and island hunting. A clearer definition of the provisions of crediting island investors subject to preferential conditions encourages investment by natural, natural and legal persons of craftsmen and legal persons who start or expand the activities of certain Article 15 through their lending programmes. The island law, which is also the answer that is not only credited but also subsidized by part of the interest that HABOR places on the islands. Harmonisation of provisions in support of island employers with the law and the State aid Regulation, i.e. with the legal property of the European Union, which must have prompted employment. And here's one of my cases in town where at this point, as the largest island city, we have over two thousand and two hundred employees. And one of the reasons that there are so many employees of 8 and a half thousand inhabitants on the island has just been the support given to the islanders through these, harmonising those provisions. Redefining the provisions on... the name of the Croatian island products in accordance with existing legislation, the extension of the authority of the island council as an advisory body in implementing measures and activities of the total sustainable development of the island. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And very important that the institute was introduced to protect the island's real estate. The positive effects of the introduction of the first purchase institute are certainly more points because they are certainly important through the protection of Croatian islands from inappropriate sales as we have seen today. Determination of maritime good limits in accordance with the Law on maritime good and seaports on islands where this has not yet been established. Protection and use of small, occasionally populated and uninhabited islands and the surrounding sea, preservation and improvement of existing biological and landscape diversity. In addition to the main priority of the government's island development policy, the protection of existing values and the preservation of all resources, all projects and activities are designed with the aim of demographic, social and economic progress and sustainable development. The island's development policy is based on documents and legal regulations that directly concern the area. This is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the National Development Programme of the Island, the Law on Islands and its sublegal acts as well as other legal and sublegal regulations and development documents that regulate different areas of life. The island law and its sublegislative acts as well as the measures resulting from other laws whose application is also reflected in the islands necessary for resulting investments. That is why the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, has often stressed that this law should correct many decades of long injustice against our islands, whose untouched natural beauty we used to admire, but we did not do too much for them. The government was the first to launch a programme of Adriatic orientation but also the first to set up a separate Ministry of the Sea, thus returning the old debt to islands that have been without state support for decades. As part of a special programme of care for islanders, the government launched several investment cycles and invested a million, a billion 889 million kunas on Croatian islands during 2007. It should be noted that our islands in the last 4 and a half years have built 70 water supply systems, 33 disposal systems, 31 schools, 5 kindergartens, 34 buildings for health care and 56 ports built or renovated. The government of Dr. Ivo Sanader has created good foundations for economic revitalisation by introducing new ferry lines, raising business zones and providing support to entrepreneurs who establish companies and create and create jobs on the islands. The government returned to the islanders the health homes that had been abolished in previous times by a decision in 2007. She retained island courts that did not enter the rationalisation system of Croatian judicial institutions. Thus, in order to improve living conditions, a number of increasing resources are invested every year in construction, reconstruction, recovery of ports, island road infrastructures, construction of water supply and disposal systems, in rebuilding or building numerous island schools, kindergartens, homes for the elderly and the like. As I come from the island of Losinj as the largest city on islands with the highest net income of all categories and with the highest number of employees of 3,000 and 210 just one of the main reasons for these positive numbers is special care for the islands of this particular government. Comparing data Reports on the implementation of the Island Act during the period for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been submitted through numerous indicators, the obvious and positive impact of the state's care for the islands is evident. The conditions of life of the island's population have been significantly improved by introducing and implementing a number of measures and creating conditions for the island's demographic and economic recovery. So I support this report for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15339	Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15340	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, here's a colleague of yours speaking and mentioning this institute first as one of the government's safeguards against the sale of above all islands and shores. The institute would indeed have been commendable if the state budget had been in place since this institute has been providing funds. Unfortunately, however, there is not a single case when a citizen wanted to sell his own land, according to law he must turn to the state, that the state bought that property. Therefore, this institute does not exist at all, unfortunately. Why doesn't he exist? Because the state didn't secure the funds for this. Unfortunately, the state sells its own land here and there, but unfortunately it doesn't buy it. Especially not on the islands. That's big, that's a big problem. And we're all, we weren't very skeptical of it just because the funds weren't provided, but we still had the hope that the next year after the arrival, or this institute, the funds would be provided. And you're still saying, I don't think it should be mentioned as a success that there's concern about islands is that the government hasn't abolished a court on any island. So you won't do what you haven't done wrong yet as your success. These are then, if you will in this way government, your government, our common government, characterize it, you're making it a very bad ad. That it's a success, that you attribute to her something that she didn't do badly, and then it's good for the government. Give us a minute to be more careful with our government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15341	Replication response, Mr. Agent Gary Cappelly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15342	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad my colleague talked about it, that's all. ... I think it is, I was talking about the laws the government passed to sort of protect and be the first to buy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's all I ever said. I didn't tell you about these details further and the government's taking care of it. And as far as the courts are concerned, I also mentioned it because in smaller places that are more distant, it's been lifted. But it's not on the islands. So, I just wanted so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15343	Representative Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15344	Thank you. My colleague Cappelly mentioned the development of the island and I'm sure that this problem is one of the strongest problems, which I think it is, I want to ask one question to all of us. So it's not just about this government. It seems to me that he is constantly wandering between two models in a long line of years. Whether to invest in the most developed islands, so they will either stay or need first of all help to those who are the most underdeveloped, thus raising the level there, etc. Keep people and things like that. It seems to me that it's one question that is in itself and that in a number of years it's been lagging out on this side and on that side. It was mentioned just before and health care. I happen to know one example because it was a big problem for people in Sućurje could not possibly reach a doctor, a doctor of general practice. Because people out there obviously didn't have the ambition to come. So obviously you should also in some way stimulate doctors if it is already islands to go there and di is not so attractive. The other one seems to me to really question whether one island can stand to be in two counties. As far as logic is concerned, I'm thinking of Pag myself. Some boundaries on the islands. Here on Korčula they changed a lot. I don't know how much of a problem that is or isn't, but it seems to me that these things should end eventually. But at the end of the day, I'm appealing to basically everything we're going to miss if we don't keep what's called the island's cultural identity, so whatever we're doing. It's not about that. It's about some measurable, real numbers, so we say now there's more to it than that. If we lose the island's company, we lose everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15345	And the third replica, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15346	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I would like to replicate the claim that the island has been neglected for over a decade. I come from Brač Island. We've had all the roads in the '70s, water too. And that's why I mentioned that road through Cres because I surprised her that big island has such a bad road. It's about certain shares and you'll probably keep working. What is it really about when we talk about those times, at least as far as the island of Brac is concerned. We had one municipality and from one place it is written in the National Development Program of the Island that the island is a system. One place was to manage development, we were left with more money because something was centralized, and with what we had, we were able to manage. Now I know, they say to us Bračana that we're a little bit more rational at our disposal, but we knew how to do it. And now we're adjusting to the same thing. Therefore, I would not agree with this assumption of 20 years of neglect as far as my island is concerned. I'll let it happen somewhere, but I'm inviting you to come and talk to me about the years ahead. So maybe if the next year's report were to be more comprehensive, to make it even better, we supported it over the past few years regardless of who the government is. We'll probably do it next year. I hope there won't be any big reasons for the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15347	Replicate response, Mr. Agent Gary Cappelly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15348	Thank you, Vice President. I'd just like to replicate that this government started building exactly that mentioned highway D-100, so it's pretty clear there, and all those many years ago no one was moving them. That's why I have to point out that this government has set this thing in motion and hastened the construction of this stock.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15349	Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15350	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since 1244 the island, islets and hills of the Croatian Adriatic is a significant number located right in the Zadar County area. Of the inhabited islands almost 1/3 belong to the Zadar archipelago. It is this fact that gives us the right to say that Zadar County is the most accurate county in the Republic of Croatia. Just in the Zadar County area except for the islands connected by the Pag bridge, Vir, and the first ring of Ugljan Island, Pasman who had relatively good connections. All the other islands until recently, and some are still struggling with depopulations and decades were the most endangered Croatian islands. Mr. Bauk you were talking about those islands big, but here in the Zadar County area are the other islands we're talking about today. The tradition of investment only in the large islands that you were talking about was interrupted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to go this way on the basis of the Island Act, as well as other positive regulations. Of course, the local and regional level was ready to accept such a programme by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Development documents, deadlines and programmes for sustainable development of islands and islands, as well as programmes for the overall development of local self-government units on islands, have been developed. Large islands were built in the area of port infrastructure to have traffic availability. The ferry ports of Premuda, Olib, Ista, Zverica, Mali Rava, Rivnja were built. Travel ports in Brbinj, Preka, Bršanje, Iža, Ravi were built. The plan is Preko and Brgulja. More ports of Poljana, Pasman, Stone, Silba,... Biograd and Starigrad are under way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gats were built for fishing boats in Kukljica, as well as for fast ships in Zapantel. Sanitated gats in the port of Ždrelac and Zdrelascic on the same but also communal links at the port of Hrvatin on Sestrunje. A project for the construction of the Gaženica port has been agreed, but a project for the expansion and deepening of the Mali Ždrelac water channel has been launched. A significant shift is also in investment in the water supply of the island. Here, Mr. Bauk, you said you had water on some islands a long time ago, and this year the first ring was only connected, essentially water came to the island of Ugljan. Rehabilitation and construction of plumbing facilities on our islands is ongoing and on Iz, Dugi Otok, on the island of Pag. Watermen are organized quite a good transport of water. There are large investments in the drain and in Preko, Doll, Kalim, as well as in Pasman and Pag. Large shifts have been made to preserve the environment by resuscitating the dump, but investment is also important in road infrastructure that was not so good. Health care, many medical hospitals, schools, and homes for the elderly were built. And here, the concrete results of such a single approach to the systemic and other islands are great except that our islands are much closer or never closer to the land, that it is a better, faster, more quality link, and for all of this it was necessary to do what I had to do before I listed a number of ports to make them available, and then closer and more quality. Our islanders are no longer as thirsty as they were. There are families left on the islands. Our families used to leave the island by going to school. Now they stay because they have the possibility of schooling on an island or school or e-school. Older people live better on islands, health care conditions are improved, but social care homes are also built. We have craftsmen coming to the islands, but investors are coming, but precisely thanks to this basic infrastructure that was built on the islands. No government has ever invested as much in islands as this and this report confirms it. The island's national development programme has given its results, and I think it's time to revise it because large funds and large programs have been implemented from that national programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15351	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15352	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. By reading the Report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands, which the Government is obliged to submit to the Assembly under Article 38. The island law, or rather, which is mandatory to submit to the Parliament, which has so far been done by this Government twice, is spontaneously imposed on the reminiscing of the previous period, for the period prior to the adoption of the Law on the Islands of 1999 or even earlier, before the adoption of the National Development Programme of the island 1997. According to that old navigation rule to know where we are today, we need to know where we were before. The introduction of the national programme states that islands are rich and valuable in Croatia and that according to the Constitution, they have special protection of the Republic of Croatia, but there is also a conclusion that here has just been replicated that the entire century has invested little or nothing in them so that they have returned economically and demographically. In order for this may not be a replica again, I will dare comment that first of all, this finding is part of a national programme that I remember by consensus in 1997, so I should replicate to all those who raised that hand, but in addition, it does not mean a political qualification of a period, but merely a finding of the island's situation and requirements, an imperative that investment and care should be accelerated in a special way so that they are at short notice with the rest of Croatia. I will quote something else that has been said here from this national programme: "save life, promote demographic rebirth and economic progress, and in addition preserve the harmony of unsurpassed natural values are tasks which tend to achieve this programme" so the national programme. I did it again because it's so good and summed up that repetition certainly doesn't hurt. It is a quote from a document that has over 60 pages of summary text full of valuable data that was hard to collect at the time to get a real picture of the situation and also where there are so many wise projections that they are worth today. The assembly adopted it on 28 February 1997 and thus established a commitment to a different relationship with the islands. Today, on the basis of this 2007 report and personal insight, we have reason to conclude that a well-organised permanent and long-term concern for islands, that the programme is implemented and that we are sailing in a good direction. The amount of investment in islands is growing and expanding, including all kinds of life on islands. Therefore, the legislative instruments referred to in the report, the Regulation on the exercise of the right to grant state support to small value island employers for the preservation of jobs, the Regulation on the right to free public island road transport and strategic documents, the State programme for the protection and use of small occasionally populated and unoccupied islands and the surrounding sea, the strategy for the development of nautical tourism of the Republic of Croatia, the strategy for the use of UNT, on islands or the market promotional Regulation on the conditions and manner of product labelling, the Croatian island product, are evidence of deepening genuine care for islands. This is where the introduction of the first purchase right institute is to be included, but it is certainly a useful institute for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia, units of the regional and local self-government units, which was arranged for real estate relations in 2004. The follow-up of state investment in islands from the adoption of the Law on Islands in 1999 to this report is a constant increase and has tripled to noticeable, which is a billion and 890 million kuna in 2007. They are invested in water supply, disposal, roads, roads, bridges, ports, airports and helicopters, health, education, information, social care, retirement homes and care for elderly persons, culture, construction heritage and sacral heritage, economy, agriculture, fisheries, tourism, environmental protection, waste management, national parks and parks of nature, facilities and equipment of public use, subsidies, cadastre, land books, electricity, forestry, telecommunications, postal service, studies, technical and project documentation etc. And I finally conclude that this report should be accepted and positively assessed, and encourage the government to continue on the path that brings good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15353	Thank you. The replica wasn't there. Then Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15354	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, associates, colleagues and colleagues. Human species is one strange plant that calms one another, which is nice to another, so I would start with one finding of a respected fellow on the other side of the assembly that says that the economic progress of the island is practically at the level of the entire society and that no particular value should be sought in terms of the situation on the islands. I am, however, drawing a very positive conclusion, because I have an impression, not reading the papers of the report, but bearing my own impression and talking to people on the islands where I come from. The islands live significantly, significantly better than they were before, from which they should draw the conclusion that they live significantly, significantly better than they did before. I think that the islands, regardless, live better because the islands were recognized compared to what they had not previously been identified and despite the fact that on some islands especially on Brač, the infrastructure had already been made 20 years ago. It is important to conclude that the brothers roads that have come extremely well and connected the island places to each other, especially the ones that could not have been reached before the ship because they were inside and thanks to one lover and politician Brač who, with the help of the committee, then managed to fight it. But the fact is that these roads were created as a substitution for the abolition of the ship's lines. So, at that time, the ship lines to the island were lifted and this interconnection of the ship that went Sutivan, Supetar, etc. now compensated for road traffic. How and why island life is better shown by many who have lived on the islands and those who come to the islands. Of course, on the islands there is no biographical one that was previously present and welcome. And I am glad that the debates began to overcome the subject and problem of demographics, because demographics are not only the problem of the island, but the whole country is the problem, and in a certain part and a whole area of the world where a certain number of people die. I was fragrant when I found out that the 600,000 Russians a year had fewer than there were before, and probably more of them disappeared a year. In general, one movement in the world is recognised in the urban problem that deals specifically with habitats, that one movement towards cities is expressed and that this is not specificity related to islands but in general to areas of life. They're leaving villages, going to expect a better life in cities, and that's how many straws and even more improbable are created, living under better living conditions than where people came from. Demography is certainly important, demographics are the key and meaning of even coming to the island, if no one on the island has any reason to come. However, the demographic problem of at least Croatian islands was conceived more than a hundred years ago when disease occurred etc. left and went down. So, the problem of demographics as a foundation and economy on islands is worth discussing, I think that might be the case. However, I wouldn't talk from the point of view... but from the point of view of changing the structure of the housing, because if it hadn't been for some time since the century 7 here some came and changed the structure of the population that was, who knows where we would be today so I believe it's a different topic entirely. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's been an awful lot of investment in the islands lately. This testifies everything that can be found on the islands. The story of islands was always the same, that all that was on the islands was that it was built in the time of Austria, that only Austria had made mules and everything else. We can bear witness to how much time or in a few years has already been done and if the state of Croatia could be given for as many years, and I believe it will be much more than Austria itself had in this space, that it will far exceed what is said in the people at the time of Frana Bafara, etc. I think that information is extremely important. The island law and everything else that follows is the basis of all this together, the island development strategy, in fact today when we talk about the effects of the island law, I think it is much more likely to talk about the effects of a policy towards the islands, which is trying to level with all other parts of our country because it is really hard to live on islands. And that bračska starch that is spoken of and about how Scots are actually wasteful Bracans, and the Bračans are an illustration of the islands because the Splits do not recognise other islands, all the islands of Brac and only the other, third, fourth, left or right, actually shows the difficult conditions of life on the islands. That dirt that the earth gives and the story of the real ones that tells the islanders that they are asparagus and not stingy, that means that every kuna they turn or dinar, then a good thought should be given to why they spend. After all, it is like all the mentality of people who live on what God gives them, climate conditions because one year he gave birth, the second year he did not give birth. But the fact that islands live significantly better, that 9,000 miles more traffic in the past year to the island than before, that this island connection is much better and when we realize that the continuation of Brac or Hvar to Split, forward towards Zagreb, is all three hours, then we see how much Croatia has connected. The fact is that there was no Split-Zagreb road at the time of the last state, that it was part of the same policy why it was not there, so this same policy... and a relationship to the islands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's changed a lot, and it's more important, as a little bit, to tell you how much better it is on the islands. People are trying to get as many islands as possible and even the Bracans and the Soltans are fighting over... To attract her to herself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This year they competed in it and Brač won by 97 cm he pulled... Although it's supposed to be just snakes and nothing else, it's also said to the Braccans that even though one said it wasn't so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, it's my impression and the impression of everyone else that it's important on the islands is better, there are intellectuals, there's a lot of them who are left to live on Brač, Hvar, Solta, the islands are ours to recognize as ideal places for the lives of people who have the opportunity to retire at an early age, or to get off the island laptop and so, electronic communications maintain their job. Of course they're changing the structure of people, and mine have come to Brač from somewhere before, so it doesn't concern me that way. But, of course, we can't be satisfied with the state of the island, in a way that I can say that islands can live significantly better, that we can still better connect islands to each other, that the standard can grow, that certain incentives should be given further, but the fact that 2.4 inhabitants of the island have one car, shows that still on the islands is not bad. They say that many actually survive with poor pensions selling land, but it should also be kept in mind that they had this land before but that they were not allowed to sell it to anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15355	Replica. House Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15356	It was not easy for a respected colleague to appear on the replica of a respected colleague of Roshin, a lover of the Croatian islands. However, I have reported only for one reason, it seems to me that you have repeated too many times that the islands live better. I don't know if you thought about last year or whether to live better than in other parts of the country, because in either sentence, you might recognize a fraction of the truth. But despite that, neither you who are islanders nor I who are just going to the islands are people who live on the islands. It is one thing to come to the islands to observe positive changes and the other to live on the island. It's hard to live on an island. And you and I know it very well. I responded to this replica just to actually speak for those who face everyday problems that I can't solve. For example. on behalf of some entrepreneurs whose tourist orientation makes it impossible to work for a good part of the year and they need to hire and pay people. They call for help, please, I won't say that the state doesn't respond at all to the calls of entrepreneurs, but we don't address the issue effectively, and then there is still a further departure of young people from the island. We don't, we have some indicators that are compared to other parts of the country good and correct. But the fact is that young people who are the bearers of development, they still leave the island. And it's nice that we may be many as pensioners and as many do today, go live on our islands, if we're still healthy, because if we're sick, we're not going to be easy on it, but pensioners aren't the ones who start development, we need more young people in the islands and we need to invest more than in other parts of the country. And this average development of the economy or the development of an island economy according to the average in Croatia is not simply enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15357	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Zeljko Roshin. Jerko, right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15358	Thank my colleague for the intervention and replica, of course, I don't understand it by any intentional means, though, well-intentioned. Because this results in a desire to live better on islands. However, I have repeatedly pointed out that living on the islands is better because I wanted to make it clear that it really is better to live. I can show you examples of people who permanently live on islands, so, constantly, they don't come just for summer. I can show you one family or mention it, if you can mention the name and name of someone in the assembly as evidence and so, whose child studied in Rome and returned to live on Brač. It's not easy, but it's easier and easier. That's what I'm saying. There is a growing number of people in Brač, even though some object to me and say it is not true, that the population is growing because they move in rather than by natural growth. It's true and they move in, but they never moved in before because they didn't have living conditions. It is possible to live well on islands and to live better and better. But it is true that there are entrepreneurs who can't solve but there are entrepreneurs who have a problem with the tourist season, so at the time of the tourist season they can't work so that some other activities can work. You understand, it's not easy to coordinate, and I'm not saying it's good on the islands and I'm saying it can be better, or it's good, but it can be even better and it should be better than it was. It's my only intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15359	And is it true that lizards came from Scotland to feed on Brač?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15360	May I intervene? If he's allowed to intervene, that's how Jump came about because he was fed to the Bracans through the glass.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15361	And the sub-levels agree with that, too. Now, don't hurt my Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15362	Mr. President, I think, and you probably thought it was an injured article, too, I think it's 214. A Rules of Procedure that speaks of the demeaning of a certain group of citizens, because what you said is not jokes, we say it's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15363	No one was disrespecting anyone. There's one, I know another. What about fireworks? In Brač, they don't organize it because they hear it from Split. [[Intruder: He was good in Split.]] Today, we will continue the debate on this law and end this debate and still have a debate on the final proposal of the Law on Cereals and Industrial Plants and thereafter, it is foreseen that in half two discussions will be concluded, and then in half two immediately vote on the remaining points of the agenda. That vote is 15 minutes, so in two hours this session would be over. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15364	I thank Mr. President, I hope this situation about telling jokes about islanders like, and there's always some metaphor for Bracani, so the island I come from won't keep us away from the problems we talked about today. From the perspective of someone who started elementary school in 1979, where there were almost 30 students in the class, so that today in the same school that is now going, so 30 years later, there were 12, in the best way to describe what actually happened in the last 30 years. And I don't think it's an excessive guilt of any government, and I don't want to call anyone for it, but I'd just like to warn you of the state it was. Mr Puljic quoted the National Programme on the Development of the Island as talking about the number of inhabitants in this National Programme on page 8 as visible data that from 1971 to 1981 the number of island residents fell to 127 to 114 thousand, but it is also visible that in 1981 to 1991 he was increased and returned to 127 thousand. Therefore, there were times when the population was falling and the population was growing. There were times when they were better or worse for the islanders, and most often the islanders could not decide for themselves. The most common thing for them was nature's decision, so we remember, I don't remember me, peronospora from the 20s, then some other rodentic movements, world wars, and wars, among other things, the Homeland War, which, as a result, had a reduction in population. And I hope that the period, regardless of which government it was, was the end of it or that at least the reduction had stopped. When we talk about living on an island of me on that life they associate two TV shows. One is Our Little Mist, and the other is what is now shown on one TV "Life in the North". Indeed, in many aspects of such a small community relatively isolated community, I recognized a lot of similarity to what it seems to be, in fact, that the day of those who decided to stay on the island, whose choice it was, or whose it was, in some way, determined what they could not influence. In fact, the decision - making process of whether a family will remain on the island, whether they will go off the island, or whether someone might come from the mainland to the island, can best bear witness to numerous examples. The first intersection in any case is going to school, and I have to admit that as far as going to elementary school is concerned, that kind of intersection is always meant to stay on the island. However, when going to high school, those who have opportunities usually sell some land, buy an apartment where the child goes to school because he calculated that the loan war is about as low as the rent price, that the child is slightly higher and then the child goes to school or the whole family moves and after school has a property, or has an apartment in a big city and has a finished school. And it's another dilemma whether to go back to the island or stay in town and, of course, look for your perspective. There's a bigger choice in town. So how long then is a young adult profession where he can find a good job on the island he will return to the island, unless he's tied up before with family or something else, and if that's not the case he'll stay. And the fact that there's more choice on land than on the island comes to this other decision that people stay to work on land. My question here to the government's present representatives whether they have forces within the government, was working alone in the state administration and I know what the burden of relations between other ministries that the island's problem remains not only the primary concern of this island administration. All I was saying on behalf of the club, I was actually saying more about other ministries, other people who weren't there, because as far as infrastructure and traffic connections are concerned, we don't have any big objections, so it's cases of individuality, I don't know that this port in Lopar was because of an inadequate ship that had to be repaired, that the line had been broken, there were some other cases, but in general there were more, so that level was reached satisfactorily. These individual cases somewhere one line more or less is now a thing that is no longer a strategic nature and I must probably thank the largest number of islanders on the nightline and I have no need to see whether this or that government did it now. Many debates in this House were, you didn't do this, you didn't do that. As far as the island on my side will always be, you did this, those before you did what you did. And let's just say that during the last government, the coalition government introduced a free ticket for pensioners, some other good things were introduced, and there were probably failures like in every government there are failures, but it's unnatural for me as an islander to try to make life worse for those who are trying to help the islands. And I expect that if there's someone else in that opportunity that they do that. We're not going to read chestnuts about the island, because there's no chestnuts on the islands. And that's why it's no wonder that that National Programme adopted by consensus no matter what it was there might have been a sentence that I deeply disagreed with, but what was good there was more than what was bad. And that's why it was adopted by consensus. That's how the SDP got up the radio, and that's why he got the biggest support for the citizens on the islands, and he'll get it again. You don't have to get too upset about it. As far as some other matters are concerned, it is not a matter of whether people born on the island live on islands or living on it. It is important that they contribute to making life on the island better to contribute to the community. And we are often proud of the islanders who have moved either to Split, Zadar, Rijeka, either to Zagreb, either outside Croatia, outside Europe and who have contributed to the improvement of that community and so we expect those who move to the islands to contribute to the improvement of that community. The enthusiast Mr. Roshin mentioned him was Ivo Marinkovic, and he is one of the people to whom the Bracans owe the most because the most in those times there was Brač developing perhaps even stronger than the rest of the state. In 1987 there was no loser in Brač, no one in '86. there was one cooperative they'd liquidated. Tourism and agriculture were also developed, and the stone industry, there was a Pliva factory in Nerežišče, there was a Brač plastic in Sutivan, there is none of it today, but it was seen that the development of the island from one place was being considered. He was in Bol tourism and today he is. Brač has an airport, has good ferry ports, good roads and good connections. Nevertheless, the problem of population growth has not yet been solved. I'll bring it to an end. As someone who is from the island in this assembly, I therefore feel the need to represent those who need more than the state, and I will always warn people who decide to keep an eye on it, and just as Mrs. Marinovic said, there are large and small islands. I'll dare say, we're not really an island anymore on Brač. We are a peninsula, because we are not connected to the mainland, we now have one 75% of the island, we know how it was and we know what other problems are, and so I was saying, for example, if you know that one ferry ticket for Lastovo for the car costs as two Slovenian vignettes almost there, what we said was expensive. Can that change? Can you turn that down? Does the state have the strength not to count for one doctor and several teachers on Lastovo and on other small islands now, to allow his entire income tax to remain there, and then he wouldn't have maybe six but would have nine thousand kuna. Maybe he'd come. Maybe you'd stay. These are individual cases. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, islands in any case want to go as close as the rest of Croatia goes on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15365	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15366	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Arsen, your colleague Arsen said earlier, you mentioned that life on the islands reminds you of the series. Well, that's why I thought of a group of people on the islands, and they're doctors. I'm sorry that when we discussed today in the debates, there was no news of how difficult it was for a doctor to live on the islands, and we all know that we were working on the ground alone. As many doctors on the islands are essentially facing themselves, they are condemned to themselves. Surely they have a very demanding and physical and psychological job. Unfortunately, our islands are also very far away from each other, traffic between small islands and weakly connected, and that is why we have a lack of doctors on the islands, not that finding that they are previously said to be gone throughout Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15367	Replication response, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15368	Not just the doctor's question, the question, the teacher's question, perhaps the civil servants. All this imposes the need to discuss the island's problem in government beyond the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and only one administration. So if you need help to criticize those who don't work enough, if you work enough there, we'll be at our disposal anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15369	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15370	Thank you, Mr. President. Europe has a land with a thousand lakes, Finland and has a land with a thousand islands, that is Croatia. It has 79 islands, 526 islets and about 650 rocks and sea rocks. The divorce on a relatively short coast, it is just amazing, the diversity of the entire Croatian coast is indeed a story to itself. The view of our observers on this paradise on earth could be harsh, but also pytomo. It's rare where it's really possible to see such an amazing, amazing combination in such a small space. And that's why I think this recent statement that the government should surely react to, the local coalition partner of HDZ, that Pavelic is a hero, a war criminal who sold Dalmatia, Istria, the coast and islands. I think that for principle reasons we should react to such things, because then we wouldn't have had neighbouring Italy from Deblusconi's administration, every little bit of verbal claim that there was Dalmatia and the islands were always other Italian historical countries. I think it's something to react to, and above all when it comes from some of our politicians, even if it's them and the locals. But here's to going back to the subject itself. Personally, I do support this report, but something I'm going to say was based primarily on the direct speech of people living on our islands. Indeed, there is a serious situation in the depopulation, and that is why I think there is no place for politicisation because the problem is being overcome by party bickering. And what can really be done for this worrying situation, first of all, is missing people on islands from year to year, because that's one of the biggest problems and then selling our islands. In fact, the islands have been experiencing economic stagnation and depopulation for a long time. The traditional way of life disappears, and that's all we're offering and what we're witnessing is this mass seasonal tourism. What no one will deny is what is invested and that has passed by the governments and these investments in the islands, but there are few long-term integrated projects that need islands, which can only guarantee success and a real change for the better. When the government adopted the National Development Programme in 1998, the implementation was meant to improve life on the islands. Eleven years after the islanders say life on the islands has not improved, yet a certain population has also disappeared over the past 11 years. The fact is, and that's what we need to be concerned about here and see what else can be done or what isn't enough and in which direction the other one should go. Namely, the Adriatic islands are extinct. The crying of an unborn child has long not been heard in many Adriatic islands, especially in most of the Zadar islands, and funerals are daily. The islanders are not as pleased as many of us here in the Parliament. They point out that the big problem is the sale, the sale of the island, the exodus. The islanders are really afraid that the foreigners will buy the islands. They detect the most important problems, and the connection of the island to the mainland, although it's done quite well. Employment is one of the biggest problems. Care for elderly people, decentralisation, and they believe that this is exactly the main lack of money on islands, not the educated island population. Unsolved property problems are the biggest on the islands right now. There we still have the last entry 100 years ago that was made in land books, and all this is holding back a private initiative. It is often mentioned and it has somehow entered our jargon when it comes to islands, about the revitalization of the island. Revitalization means new life, restoration of life. But our islands are especially those smaller islands that are practically dead in winter. The policy of promises and even the policy of asphalting, concreteizing, and here and there building which the ferry port obviously had this problem, the main problem could not be solved. Double-dead versus born, that's a fact, that's the data that we all should be worried about together. Young people just don't have the conditions to live. It can't be said, therefore, that not enough has been done specifically in terms of infrastructure. But on the return of young people and the resuscitation of the island, not much has been done. That can't be the problem of one ministry. That must be the government's problem. That should be our common problem. We often hear very little from citizens or individual stakeholders who have a lot to say when we do different programs. When it comes to islands, and then more than in what other case should he listen to the islanders. Here's what the chairman of the local board of the island of Žverinac says. He says: “A dock has been built. And the roads were made on the island. We have," he says "and a fast shipline." He says, "We also have a ferry line that should, but that ferry line should be arranged so that we can live on an island and work in the city, work in Zadar." If young people don't stay on the island, and a growing number is leaving, and if these problems don't solve, they will, and the rest will. Here's what the fisherman Dusko Vidov says from the island of Ugljan. He says that schooling, health care and expensiveness are the main problems on the island. That people need 200 kunas who live in the city and have farm properties and land on the island. That's how people would come over the weekend to process the country, but it says, "Many don't have those 200 kunas because it's a huge amount." And it's precisely because of the cost they don't come. They are left with raw estates that would be very much welcome, especially with these high prices. The water problems, the ownership relations, they bother us, too. The development of olive industry is just limited to us for these reasons. People have on, land on the island but that's why it stays unworked. They'll probably still have to pay taxes on that unprocessed land now. There's a lot more to be done in health care. In order for a man to perform a medical examination, he says, he must stay in Zadar for 8 to 10 days. We need a home to health on the island. School, sell a piece of land, educate children in Zagreb and Split, and they stay there. A fishing port in Kali, whose construction began seven, eight years ago has not yet been completed. The problem is that too. Fisheries remains a major problem. The fish market, why isn't it working? Here's to the island of the same as the brother-in-law Ante Smoljan says. He says, "After 100 years, the Christian school closes. She didn't sign up for a single student. You ask me," he says "about revitalising the island". It's a safe word that's connected to life, but here on this island there is no life. He says it's more valuable to have a doctor on the island than water. But there's no water. "We have" says "electricity, but we don't have a priest," he says. "Since he died a few months ago, Don Angelo and I were left without a priest." The captain of long sailing from Molata says, "On this beautiful island," which is also employed here, he says: "The young people are gone. They're leaving us. This is our biggest problem." Because the first step right in preventing the sale and sale of the island is to keep the residents. When there's no people, there's nothing. That's what the priest from Molata says. He says, "Please do something to stop the sale on Croatian islands." He says, "The last baptism I had was six years ago. In 1986, I had my last wedding. And here I have 6, 7 funerals." Here is a picture of our islands. Let's do something. Here is the island of Brač, which my colleague Arsen Bauk often mentions, in Nerežišce, my mother still went to kindergarten there. And now the grand school is restored without a few students. There wasn't one factory there. He's a little further from Pussy, so he doesn't know. There were three factories there. So what other than this infrastructure that is certainly needed, it needs to be continued, but now we need to do something that is most important to us and the industry that is appropriate to our islands to employ people. Because people only like to live on islands if they can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15371	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15372	Thank you. I knew a lot of people didn't want to know how many docks were built. That's why in my presentation, I listed a number of over 20. I think that at least a colleague Marinovic should know about the Zadar area how many ports were built in the Zadar County area.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15373	It's not the correction of colleague Marinovic. That's a comment. We go to corrections all the time. And Mr. Agent Gary Capelli, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15374	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would only correct, there were a lot of corrections, but I would correct it if it wasn't for people not to come to the island for reasons that they couldn't be hired and so on. I'll just say one example of RBD that will invest in Losinj in the next 7 years 80 million for the renovation of all hotels and plans to employ more than 200 people. So that's enough, enough correction to make the island really want to invest and to hire people. And the rest of them would take a little more time to fix them all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15375	Final review. Final review. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we have been keeping an eye on everything we think is important and important and everything that can improve the life and development of the island. And I really thank everyone for, I can really tell by constructive discussions. After all, all the representatives of the clubs also said that they would support this report, and we are doing so today and we realized this debate that it is primarily aimed at making all of us even more effort, even more resources to make life on the islands better, to make it easier and to make those negative trends that have already been stopped in the other direction, which is towards a positive direction. So I'm just going to comment on a few things that I think are important. I won't and I can't and I don't have time for everything else. First of all, I want to say that, clearly, it is absolutely not true that the island is being invested in some kind of party, party colors. The islands are invested in how many places they need, and all of this is done knowing the situation on the island and in communication with the leaders of local self-government units on the islands. I can also list a few examples of where they are here, where the Croatian Democratic Community has not managed these places, and large funds are being invested from Korčula, I do not know Vele Luka, Krka, Vira, etc. So I absolutely reject it and it's just not true. Secondly, there was a speech that the report stated that I don't know how to edit military, build a radar system, police car, etc. etc. and loans. That's true, because we really wanted it, and that was a few years ago and the demands of the Lord of Representatives to make it transparent. And that report is really transparent, because if it's listed in it I don't even know the trash can, is it a bit of a cartoon now, then it's really transparent. And I keep that one cop car and it's a radar system, and somebody's gonna be working on the island. An arrangement of a military station on the island. So that's something that goes in favor of the island and the islanders. When it comes to loans then the fact is that the loan was raised at about 700 million kuna, but the island law made it possible because the interest on these loans was between 2 and 4%, which means that no such interest would certainly not be so favourable. Stica, here's the answer. In ten days there is a public competition for Stinica along with the access road. So, that's one of those, there were other projects mentioned, but they're mostly all in preparation, or these projects are now going. I won't comment on the health care home. There is also Mr. Hebrang indeed gave the answer both as a representative and as a councilman and as a professor and as an expert so that I do not have to comment specifically. What I'm still trying to say is that, when it comes to selling out often. We all know that the Croatian Parliament has passed a law in which there is no law, so it is not allowed to sell out small islands, islands, but that if the owner wants to sell it clearly at market price it should first be offered to the state, or county or municipality or city. If not, it can only sell on the market and those islands that are defined by the programme to be of interest to the Republic of Croatia. But I'm saying that because it's said that the funds are not secured for any such first purchases. Those funds are secured. These funds are located in the position of this Central State Property Management Office. And so we have the means to buy such islands. I want to say in the end that I agree clearly with the representatives who spoke and we all know it, the island will stay if you can work and live there. Because the fact is that a good ship's connection is also a prerequisite and infrastructure, etc. etc. But ultimately, a man must be able to live there on an island and work on an island. So we're at the end. So we're not done, far from that, but we're almost done with this base infrastructure, with municipal infrastructure, with society infrastructure, with social infrastructure, which is actually the basis of any development. Because there's no economic development anywhere on the island unless you have developed infrastructure. We also have an example on land. He's the best example of the character. Until she had developed infrastructure, she was one. I don't know what economic indicators are today. It's completely different. It's on top today. Therefore, it is necessary first to build this base which, unfortunately, has not been built in decades and is not invested in it, municipal infrastructure, the connection of the island to the mainland, etc. etc., socio-social and then work on a new cycle, and this new cycle is programs for the development and promotion of the island's economy and about tourism and about agriculture and about fishing and when it comes to shipbuilding on islands we know that we have a few small squires on islands and when it comes to indigenous activities on islands. Therefore, what we will base on in the next period is this – the development of an island economy that is now much easier and better to develop, given that it is built or at the end of the construction, this fundamental infrastructure. Here, I thank all the MPs once more for the debate. I thank you for your suggestions, your remarks. We have heard all of this, appreciated it, and when it comes to islands we will surely, in a few years when the census is restored, have a different picture than it was a few years ago, or year after year, we have certainly heard it from all of you, a better situation on Croatian islands. It's not ideal and there's no euphoria as Mr. Representative Bauk said. There's no euphoria and there's no room for euphoria away from it. But we are going towards life on the islands to be better, better quality and better quality and to be what we all always say, and these are Croatian pearls. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15377	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote by Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15378	Well, I actually want to correct one of the allegations said by the minister that he is investing in the islands according to the needs. I don't want to paralyze or correct the assumption that it doesn't happen on the party key, because it can be one way or the other, but I have to fix this as needed. The minister cited several examples of islands that confirm his thesis, but he kept quiet a few examples and I will list only one that completely deny his thesis and correct it. The island of Mljet, a beautiful island that has for years, although it has great needs, has not received from the state budget a single kuna. And the Milky Way gets from some other sources, but from the state budget for projects nothing, and the Milky Ways and many others can find out for themselves what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15379	And Madam Representative Ingrid Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15380	That's right, Mr. Minister said about this first-bought institute that the state introduced him, but it's not true that the first-timer works. The first one turned into a buyout because the state won't buy. Here, you and I know it was sold, I know a few small islands in the Zadar archipelago. The state didn't buy any, and that's how much of the opportunity we've all been looking forward to, and we've been looking forward to keeping that sale together, nothing's been done. So the state didn't buy anything. I don't know if the state doesn't have any money or isn't interested, but I think both are a little true.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15381	Okay. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15382	We are going to the report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2007. The Proposer is the Government. The vote shall be decided. The report shall be adopted on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2007. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find most of the 97 votes in favour and one abstention accepted this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15383	We're going to the next point eight. Final proposal of the law on grain warehouses and industrial plants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 137 Proposer: The discussion was conducted by the House of Representatives of the HSS and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ Committees on Legislative, Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. The government has delivered its opinion. Who's going on behalf of the proposer? Okay. Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15384	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Seeing the unfavourable situation and the uninvited situation in which domestic farmers are located, the Croatian Peasant Party's Club and the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives modelled the countries from the environment and the new member of the European Union who in their legislation have laws governing the system of warehouses and warehouses have developed a bill that legally regulates the issues of grain warehouses and industrial plants. The purpose of the law is to offer an alternative solution to the short-term financing of all activities carried out by farmers and processors during one season using the collateral as a guarantee of the use and return of credit funds to the bank. The legal arrangement of storage will benefit domestic farmers and cereal and agricultural plant processors as well as traders. This law establishing a foothold in the Law on Agriculture and the Strategy for Agriculture and Fisheries regulates the issues of transfer of ownership to cereals and the provision of adequate guarantees for short-term financing and the guarantee for the sustainability and security of storage of the deposit is a confirmation of the authorised warehouse. The main objectives of the law are to create conditions for the sustainable development of the production and processing of cereals in all parts of Croatia, to ensure effective and favourable financing of agricultural production based on the warehouse, to establish a stable market for cereals and industrial plants in the country. Basic issues raised before this law: the regulation of a single and legally regulated system of storage of cereals and industrial plants, providing depositors of cereals and industrial plants, the protection of quality and quantity of deposited cereals and industrial plants as well as depositors or warehouses. Introduce a warehouse and public and practical use on the domestic market as a guarantee document on ownership and on the function of short-term financing collateral. This proposal provides that the warehouse is issued by an authorised warehouse which has met the conditions, the owner of the warehouse proves his ownership of the delayed goods kept in the regulated manner of the authorised warehouse. By way of a warehouse, the owner may request from the bank a credit for the financing of the production where the bank introduces a right to the pawnage of the warehouse. The amount of credit the owner will receive depends on the value of the collateral and the risk the bank is willing to bear. The functioning of this system shall be ensured through a system of market lines which will provide and lease storage space for selected authorised warehouses which will be partly used for public interventions and in the second part for commercial storage. In order to coordinate activities between the participants, and as regards law enforcement, the Directorate for Market and Structural Support has been designated by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. The expected consequences of the application of this law will result in confidence in the system of storage between farmers, processors, warehouses and financial institutions. This system of storage of cooperation of all interested in the economy of the Republic of Croatia places it at a higher level. It is thought of the producer of cereals, industrial plants, merchants, financial institutions and authorised warehouses. The State also has its own interest because the necessary order is being established on the cereals market, industrial plants, an active record of the quantity of products is being kept and everyone in the chain is being made possible. There will be an increase in capacity and storage space. Farmers have the ability to earn better money because they are not forced to sell goods at a time that is not suitable for them because of the estimated value of the goods, so they become more satisfied. Finally, the adoption of this law will achieve multiple positive effects on the economy of the Republic of Croatia, agricultural producers of cereals and industrial plants will be able to decide on the best moment of selling their goods and achieve the best profit. The selected warehouse owners filled with capacities and other dynamics will increase their revenues. The banking sector will be actively involved in its interests, and the state will also achieve a positive economic climate where the introduction of order in the cereals and industrial plants market will be as one of the objectives. It is intended to restore satisfaction to the faces of farmers, and one way is to pass this law. On the committees that we were on as promoters, the government's opinion has also come, which has put forward its proposal that this law goes into 2 readings, which the Proposer has also accepted, means that this is the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15385	Thank you. The Legislative Committee. Here you go. The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 27th session held on 16 September 2008, the Croatian Parliament Legislatives Committee discussed the proposal for a Law on Cereals Storage and Industrial Plants, with the Final Proposal for a Law. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law in the first reading for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was also adopted by the proposing representative. The text of the proposal shall be accompanied by the following comments and proposals. First, to review the name of this law because it is not only a warehouse, but also the obligations and rights of a warehouse, or warehouse. For this reason, it is possible to consider the proposal to regulate the content through the name of this law as a law on the storage of cereals and industrial plants or the like. At the same time, the pronunciation should be regulated in such a way as to show whether it is a specific type of warehouse, by choice of the Directorate for Strategic Stocks, or whether this law applies to all grain and industrial plant warehouses. This is especially because the term "authorised warehouse" is used. The majority of the provisions should be regulated in a transparent manner so that there is a visible difference with regard to the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, which governs the issue of the warehouse with 18 articles. Of course, this special law requires these differences to be arranged as an exception. The concept of the owner of the warehouse is questioned because it is essentially the owner, because the warehouse itself is not a paper, but the rights arising from it can be used and available, and in this case Article 21 is unnecessary because the content is covered by Article 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15387	Thank you. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development? Madam President, dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15388	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on the Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, in the capacity of the home working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which the Government supports the draft law in question, but suggested that the Croatian Parliament accept that proposal in the first reading. The proposal was agreed by a representative of the proposings and the present members of the Committee. A representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the adoption of the law proposal in the first reading, as it seeks the systematicity of the resolution of ownership rights, the standard of storage as part of market lines, intervention buying-in and market management. He made several comments which were not made in the opinion of the Government, which was submitted to the representatives on individual articles, or proposed amendments to some articles and the addition of new articles, which would subsequently be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. The debate highlights the legal obligation to introduce market lines for all agricultural products. The importance of available storage goods is also highlighted so that it does not happen that the warehouse owner gives priority to the storage of the goods of his co-operatives, or to those of whom he will finally buy the goods. It is pointed out that it would be good to simulate the effects of the law and to determine how much storage space there is to receive goods, how much financial institutions are interested in such storage mode and to see opportunities to encourage the construction of storage facilities and to assess the time when the law could give effect. The debate also stated that the consistent application of the storage contract governed by the Mandatory Relations Act would ensure that Articles 744 to 762. It is also said that it is necessary to bear in mind and price of storage in all entry and exit segments as well as manipulations, so that there is no situation where the price difference cannot cover storage costs. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament, with a majority of votes, 9 for and one abstention. The proposal for a Law on Cereals and Industrial Plants will be discussed in the first reading. Secondly, the Proposal for a Law on the Cereals and Industrial Plants Storage is adopted. Thirdly, all the comments and proposals tabled in the debate shall be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15389	Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Stjepan Mikolčić will further explain the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15390	Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Storage Act, as the applicant put it, should aimly resolve the relationship between farmers, warehouse processors and financial institutions and therefore support the adoption of this issue by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, such a proposal for a Law on the Cereals Storage and Industrial Plants does not provide a complete solution and is not properly linked to the system of implementing the market lines that Croatia is obliged to apply as part of the harmonisation of our system with the European Union systems. In order for the system to act in the desired way, we believe that the existing proposal should be updated and that there are certain shortcomings that could lead to it not having the desired effect. In doing so, I would like to stress the following: First, the Proposal for a Storage Act for the absence of an insurance fund system guaranteeing the owner of the warehouse a rapid and effective payment of the value of the goods in cases of alienation, accident or similar situations in a significant part of the system’s feasibility, and the interest of the banks in using the warehouse as a guarantee document will be very small or almost zero. Secondly, the existing model in which deposit insurance must be guaranteed by a warehouse within its own framework, or by means, is generally not a new situation that will attract the bank to accept the issued warehouse as a valid guarantee, that it will collect its goods. Legally speaking, relations that establish the bill already exist under the Law on Mandatory Relations. The silos can still issue a storage document confirming that they have goods on behalf of the owner. So far, banks have accepted such circumstances from case to case largely in extreme need, since this forces banks to engage in the market and report as cereal providers. It also raises new issues, in which banks will behave in sales, since their philosophy is that they have to settle the debt as soon as possible and collect from the stock. This would probably put some banks in a position to stock up on the market and below market prices, which would then simply further disrupt established market relations. And thirdly, when the warehouse guarantees everything, a second important question is raised, which is the interest of the warehouse to include it. The fact is he carries all the risk of dealing with his assets. At this point, Croatia has a storage facility at its needs and currently has no significant surpluses of silo storage space that would bring warehouses into a position to compete more seriously with the price of storage, i.e. to be included in the storage system in order to fill their storage facilities. It's final. We believe that such a system can benefit producers, that the underlying deposit addresses the insurance issues for credit loans necessary for the financing of production. However, for the good functioning of this system, a quality arrangement is also necessary, and a high-quality market environment is necessary that will give banks security, including the incentive to engage in such a system. Therefore, once again, the Government supports this initiative of the club representatives through this legislative proposal, but we believe that it needs to be done through another reading and to remove these shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15391	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15392	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the Republic of Croatia, there are a number of storage spaces for agricultural products that are not numbered and are not officially monitored in terms of capacity and are therefore only approximately evaluated. According to the structure of storage facilities used exclusively for agricultural products, about 40%, in the food industry about 52, in trades about 1 to 2 and in the rest of 6 to 7%. The volume of storage rooms for cereals and olives is estimated at around 2 million tonnes in about 65 silos and warehouses. In the last ten years, smaller silos have been raised on family agricultural holdings, in fact, additional storage facilities with droughts. It should be pointed out that these existing storage facilities are mostly exhausted, mainly in Eastern Slavonia, and the associated equipment is technologically outdated. It also lacks warehouses for other demanding agricultural products such as fruit and vegetables. The system of authorised storage consists of three essential components, which are the authorised warehouse, warehouse and supervision. The proposed law expects better integration of important market operators, farmers, processors, financial institutions and business entities with recognised storage facilities. The system functions shall be provided through a system of market lines which will provide and lease storage space for selected warehouses, which will be partly used for public interventions and in the second part for conversion storage. Competent institutions that would supervise the rights, obligations and responsibilities of all involved entities for co-ordination and activity between participants, and with regard to the implementation of the Law on the Economy of the Republic of Croatia, the Directorate for Market and Structural Support has been designated by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. The proposed law has a foothold in the Law on Agriculture and the Strategy for Agriculture and Fisheries of the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of the law is to offer an alternative solution to the short-term financing of all activities carried out by farmers and processors during one season using the co-agetal as a guarantee of the use and return of credit funds to the bank. The basic questions are raised before this law: Regulation of a single and legally regulated system of storage of cereals and industrial plants, providing depositors, owners of cereals and industrial plants with the protection of quality and quantity of deposited cereals and industrial plants at the depositary or warehouse, and introducing a warehouse in public and practical use on the domestic market as a guarantee document of ownership, and in the function of a short-term collage. The main objectives of this law are to create conditions for the sustainable development of cereals production and processing in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, to ensure effective and favourable financing of agricultural production based on the warehouse and to establish a stable market for cereals and industrial plants in the country. The idea of introducing a warehouse within the system of authorised storage contributes to the achievement of those objectives. Although the warehouse in our formal legal sense could be used in practice as a guarantee document, precisely because of the absence of a stock deposit control institution in the warehouse its role as a guarantee document was risky. According to this proposal, the warehouse shall be issued by an authorised warehouse which has met the prescribed conditions. The owner of the warehouse shall prove his ownership of the goods stored in a regulated manner by the authorised warehouse. By way of a warehouse, the owner may request from the bank a credit for the financing of production whereby the bank introduces a final right to the finalisation of the warehouse. The amount of credit the owner will receive depends on the value of the correlation and the risk the bank is willing to bear. As a rule, it would amount to 60 to 85% of the market value of the stored deposit. At the time of maturity, the processor pays the credit to the bank, and from the rest to the sale price first covers storage costs to the warehouse, and then pays the difference to the manufacturer. This ends the credit relationship and the warehouse is stored. Of course, for the sake of interest, traders will be involved in the system to buy warehouses. The proposed law provides for several measures to protect the operation of the warehouse and to extend these measures by additional regulations. The warehouse for obtaining a certificate of authorisation must meet the financial and technological criteria. The fulfilment of these requirements as the source of the warehouse shall be based on a public tender through the Ministry of Agriculture and authorised warehouses, intervention centres shall be authorised for this job for a period of 5 years with continuous monitoring of the warehouse. Through the market order system, we also receive a written register of warehouses for the introduction and monitoring of all changes in the cereals market, as well as a storage deposit and warehouses. More important data from that register shall be entered in a public register that is transparent through a public computer network. The register shall be managed by the Directorate for Structural and Market Support in Agriculture with the Ministry of Agriculture and shall provide accurate information on the prices of storage services, busy and available storage facilities, issued and stored warehouses. The law also provides for supervision through an institution of agricultural inspection which oversees the work of an authorised warehouse on the ground and checks the compliance of their operations with the law and standards. This framework is the basis for the launch of contemporary trade in cereals, industrial plants on the market and for the adaptation of the domestic market to such market conditions in which it can be sold when it is most favourable. The system of storage, as set out in the proposal for a law, puts the cooperation of all interested in the economy at a higher level, which refers to producers of cereals and industrial plants, traders, financial institutions and legal entities engaged in storage. The state also has an interest in using a stored deposit within the meaning of this law. In addition, the inclusion of existing supervisory institutions and administrative organisations and construction units of the Ministry of Agriculture which would play their part in the provisions of this law is understood. The important advantage of this proposal is to fit into the existing administrative inspection supervision that guarantees the exercise of the legal rights and obligations and any activities provided for by this law. The development of an authorised storage and publishing system as an appropriate guarantee document for this storage is necessary as soon as possible in the legislation and economic practice of the Republic of Croatia. In the first instance, such arrangements will benefit domestic farmers and cereal processors, agricultural plants, as well as traders for simpler transfer of ownership of cereals and the provision of adequate guarantees for short-term financing. The risk of proper storage of cereals, industrial plants present on the domestic market, is too high for financial institutions to accept deposits under such conditions as collateral too high to lend credit. However, the guarantee for the stability and security of deposit storage in this case is a confirmation of an authorised warehouse whose operation has been secured and monitored at a higher level. The concept of the warehouse will be able to use processors, mills, livestock factories and similar, and manufacturers will decide whether to sell the product immediately or to store it and sell it afterwards, of course, with the expectation that the price on the market will rise to cover storage and interest costs. It is crucial, however, that the manufacturer, regardless of how he will benefit from the concept of the warehouse, has the option of choice, means safety for his goods and greater availability of capital. Due to all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the draft law in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15393	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zlatko Koračević on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15394	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal of the Law on the Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants with the Final Proposal of the Law is one legislative proposal proposed by representatives of HSS and HDZ clubs, and I must say that in our parliamentary practice it is rare that key majority, MPs clubs that make up most of Parliament propose law proposals and, as an initiative in any case, should be supported but only as an initiative. This bill was included in the agenda at the last fifth session, which adopted an emergency procedure to look for a proposal, although we are discussing a law on the draft law that does not comply with EU legislation just realizing problems in agriculture that something is being resolved in agriculture, even though it is in the rule of practice recently and for many years. Since the government did not then deliver its opinion on the bill because of the government and parliament's business procedures, we were denied the opportunity to discuss the legal initiative at that time. The government delivered its opinion on this bill at the end of August in which it actually gave no opinion or concrete remarks and proposals, but only to support the bill and propose that the Parliament accept it in its first reading. on a regular basis. Not a word about why it supports the bill, which is why it gives up the emergency procedure and why it proposes first reading. regular procedure. Whether it is a matter of indetermination, a lack of technical faults of the bill's proposal, or if it will suggest a different overall solution than it always does when it gives an opinion on opposition proposals, we have today come to understand this from the oral presentation of a member of the Government and a Mr. Secretary of State. This simply gives the impression that this bill's proposal as an initiative at that time, we speak in summer, should serve as a kind of shock absorber of the entirely justified dissatisfaction of agricultural producers and barrels that rose around the purchase price of wheat in 2008. The buying-in prices of cereals not formed with the support of the Government, but rather the price formed the market, and the similar problem in the current clock was discussed by the distinguished colleague Stipe Gabrić, who was conditionally quoted as blackmailing in the formation of the price of mandarins. Did this bill then have to offer something to farmers as a hope that their wheat might, after proper storage under the state's cap, be able to offer on the market when it suits them most. If that's why they weren't allowed to do that? By proposing first reading it seems that the truth should not be speculated in advance, as the Government already knows that the second reading of this law may not be, or may pass, on purpose or by chance, the business deadline and the matter will have to be returned to the beginning, the time will be bought, and by then we will have a second situation and negotiations on the purchase price of wheat in 2009 or a request from the European Union that excludes such a law. Principles are raised, what is to be achieved by passing this law, and what is its purpose? Namely, what the applicant states in the introduction on the basis of the question, which is to create conditions for the sustainable development of the production and processing of cereals in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, to ensure effective and favourable financing of agricultural production on the basis of the warehouse and to establish a stable market for grains of industrial plants in the country. It is not clear how we are going to achieve all this by passing this law and what agricultural producers are getting. And that many questions are being raised and the position of the president of the Committee on Legislatives, and I repeat the oral position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What do agricultural producers receive by adequate storage of their cereals and plants? What do authorized warehouses from the state get, and what does the state get? Agricultural producers receive another possible form of financing their production, obtaining credit through stocks of stored cereals, which is good and which should be supported in any case and which I support. But which, apart from the possibility of getting credit, motivates them to give their cereal to authorized warehouses. Will it achieve any other benefits? Will there also be a market for farmers who store their cereals in authorised warehouses and will only those who store in authorised warehouses buy grains at the determined price? Will these producers be able to participate in the creation of a buying-in price for cereals and may they be encouraged from the state? What are the minimum amounts that must be put into storage in order to achieve something from the state? Furthermore, what do authorized warehouses get from the state? In addition to the price for the storage service which should be determined by the directorship but which is not read from the specific provision of the law? Will the state encourage the opening of authorized warehouses if it is intended to ask, the question is how and how? What is the market interest that natural and legal persons would have to engage in the storage activities? Authorised warehouses for systematic monitoring and changes in the market for the country, the Directorate shall provide data on the quantities of cereals and plants. What does the state give them in return? Do you encourage or something? And what does the state get apart from the data it receives from the authorised warehouses on the quantities of cereals for systematic monitoring and market change and what is the interest of the state and what is obtained other than the data on the possible organisation of the market, the adjustment of the financing of agricultural production on farmers through a possible loan through the stock of cereals? These and open questions are not answered by this bill. The government has proven no vision of what and how to do in this segment, so it just says it supports the first reading. I'm talking about the government's written opinion. This area really needs finally and quality systemically solved and the question arises in exactly this way. The reading of this legislative proposal imposes a dilemma as to what legislation, directives and regulations of the European Union say. Do we have a foothold in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the Common Agricultural Policy? It would be a good idea if the Proposer told us something about it. Let's not waste our time, and just so we don't waste our time, we're starting a whole mechanism on a law that we won't need in the European Union without saying that we need to secure additional funds for its implementation in the 2008 budget if the proposings assume that we will also bring it in 2008. In the end, please... Government to explain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Has the Government or anyone in the Government made a simulation of the possible impact of this law and whether the warehouse is acceptable to financial institutions as an instrument. Whether agricultural producers are at all ready and whether they trust to give their cereals to storage. I have to remind myself of the bad experiences that farmers especially cereal producers have with the state... and everything that's been going on, it's happening, and it's still not clear about possible malversions in the state supply, and the fact that the grain that's been handed over to the state supplies that in many... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's not with all those explanations that we've had the opportunity to hear and in any case they're inconclusive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do we have sufficient storage capacity and under which conditions and under which the price of storage services is paid and whether this law is necessary since the Government adopted a regulation on the market order of cereals that regulates this area to a large extent on 30 June? I repeat at the same time that we are in the parliamentary procedure and we are given this bill. We in the Croatian People's Party will support this Bill in first reading, hoping that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will agree with its representatives clubs and finally propose optimal and acceptable legal solutions in favour of all agricultural producers and in this case the producer of cereals and industrial plants. But at the same time in Croatia, we reiterate that quality and systematic insurance of the conditions for income and sustainable agricultural production is one of the key to the sovereignty of our country. In order to responsibly analyse the complexity of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia and to propose systematic measures to begin with, it would be necessary for the Government to comply with the obligation to this Parliament and with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to make a commitment made by the Government by law in agriculture in 2002. I would like to remind myself of article 43, which I quote, which is paragraph 1: "The Annual Report on the State of Agriculture in the previous calendar year, in the following text: Green Report, produced by the Ministry and delivered to the Government by the end of May 15th of the current year..."... I repeat May 15th of the current year, "...and the Government delivers it to the Parliament no later than 30 June of the current year." And I repeat again by June 30th of the current year. Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). Until today, since 2002, this Parliament has had no opportunity to discuss a green report in this meeting. We gave an answer. The government does not respect Parliament's decision, we are talking about a green report. I hope that Minister Pankretic, as one of the authors of the idea in the coalition government when the Agricultural Law was passed, had probably had a vision of why and why, and a completely justified vision and a justifiable reason why and why in this House we should submit a green report and I hope that from Minister Pankretič to Parliament we will get a green report, even if for the last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15395	Thank you very much. It's SDP's turn. On behalf of the club will be spoken by a distinguished representative, colleague Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The legislators of this law define three basic objectives which he would have had to achieve. It is also necessary to create conditions for sustainable development of production and processing, that effective and favourable financing should be resolved and that market stability should be resolved, thus seeking to pretentively define the objectives of one warehouse. This must be the result of actually one complex system of agricultural policies, not just one document. However, since such a law is proposed, I think we should say a few words about it. It will certainly not achieve the realization of these objectives, but we would like to warn that the same problem has been solved by the Law on Mandatory Relations and that it is true that I will back you to the part of the Law on Mandatory Relations that regulates the Storage Treaty. It regulates the concept, exclusion of responsibilities and certain obligations of the warehousekeeper, then insurance, duty of insurance, limitation of compensation for damages, mixing of replaceable items, inspection of goods, cause, search of warehouses and the right to stock, lifting of goods and selling of unsolicited goods, deficiencies in the receipt of goods, change, application of rules in storage, duty to issue a warehouse, ingredients and content of the warehouse, warehouse for works of goods, the rights of storekeepers, the transfer of receipts and hostages, the rights of the holder of the certificate, the rights of the holder of the pawn, the protest for the failure and handover of goods and the request of payment by the holder of the pawn. So, in other words, it seems to us that in a more systematic, more systematic and better way, the Law on Mandatory Relations is actually solving a storage contract and part of that contract relating to the warehouse. That is why we think that, and when it comes to agricultural products and the way they are stored in quality, it should be extended not only to cereals and industrial plants but to products that are of a higher quality in financial terms. Why not also talk about the storage of fruits especially because these warehouses are missing, quality storage is lacking, and these are products that are missing for Croatia and which have a significant impact on the import of agricultural products. When we talk about warehouse owners, then who today, when we analyze who has warehouses today? They have companies and food industry. Their warehouses are capacitated in a way that meets the needs of their processing. If it relates to agricultural companies, then they have capacitated their warehouses mainly to their level of agricultural production, and when it comes to producers, then their warehouses are capacitated to their processing. In other words, very few of us have free storage facilities that would be available to those who would only like to store the goods and wait for a more favourable time to sell or wait for price increases, prices for their product and can therefore benefit from certain financial benefits or that they can raise loans based on the warehouse. The question is also how much of today's financial institutions want to monitor, credit monitoring of agricultural production. So the total agricultural production is not just a particular segment. The state has something more warehouses than it was in earlier periods, but they are now somewhere at the capacity level of the supply needs. Small commercial warehouses, the question of what they are in today's condition and whether they can satisfy such, such a quality of storage as would be necessary. On the other hand, those who have therefore larger companies do not always have quality, quality storage spaces. Still, you won't believe in Croatia using so-called floor warehouses, not modern storage silos. What some, some of the companies dealing with the processing of cereals today use is a deposit but this deposit is not actually storage and waiting for a more favourable price than it is a clean trade or trade. You give them raw materials, and they'll give you at a certain point when you want to make up for it with your product. Most of the time, that applies to wheat. There is also a question of the availability of a warehouse, a storage space which is free and whether every agricultural producer interested in stockpiling their goods at a distance of some rational distance will find a warehouse that would like to take over its goods. We therefore believe that this problem should be addressed in line with the market lines that were adopted months ago and certainly cannot, it will not, quality will not be achieved unless a certain state guarantee fund is provided. This is also the role of the Directorate for Market and Structural Support in Agriculture, which should be maintained by registers or at the disposal of service prices and the list of warehouses to be used for such commercial purposes. We do not know whether this should be the function of the Directorate for Market and Structural Support in Agriculture. And the question is, what would be the price of such a storage? We know the storage prices are pretty high. That in the price he tries to push a lot, and whoever has some spare capacity is the kind of price that a farmer actually in the price structure of his product can't actually pay. The remarks of the Government which were subsequently made on the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and these remarks brought before us today by the State Secretary, I think they are good, rational. We at the Club will accept this law as an initiative to address this problem in the first reading, but we suggest that the Government consider the whole problem of storage agricultural products and to assess whether it is necessary to pass a special law in relation to what is already regulated by the Law on Mandatory Relations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15397	Thank you very much to my colleague Zgrebec. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic is next in front of the HDSSB Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15398	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, my fellow ladies and gentlemen of my fellow MPs. This is unlike the previous point where we talked about investing in islands where more was said about where and how it was invested relatively smoothly nearly two billion kunas were spent in 2007 to build infrastructure and everything else, and which brought positive results. Somehow in this segment in agriculture laws that should be adopted and helped already by the measures that this government has made in terms of change in, in encouraging agricultural producers are somehow very slowly born, slowly going and thinking that they are slowly and obstructing what should actually be done and what should have been done long ago and which is very important for the region from which I come for Slavonia and Baranja. The laws that regulate and support therefore are not only those on incentives, they regulate relations in agriculture and the Law on the availability of state agricultural land which was in 5th, at the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament in the first reading and as I see from the point of this session, it is not in the second reading. How many dots are there? 60 and more, but the second reading did not show the Law on the availability of state agricultural land. This law that's been proposed here, the Law on the Cereal Storage and Industrial Plants is also proposed to be the first reading, right? And to be complemented after certain arrangements and after certain proposals that will clearly fall and we have them, but that's exactly what it says, it confirms what I said earlier, which is that somehow it all gets harder, stalls and actually I think it does to our agricultural producers. It is clear that it also seems clear that it agrees with this, and therefore there are reflections in the ruling coalition. But personally, I think that this can be completely over-explained, considered and reasoned, and passed a law that would certainly incentivise what in the opening part of this bill and which is why it is being passed and what needs to be arranged. It is clear that the Strategy for Agriculture and Fisheries of the Republic of Croatia has drawn the experiences of agriculturalally developed countries. Perhaps someone has not seen that the countries around us already have a fully developed storage system and warehouses. So, Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Bulgaria, all those countries that have already entered the European Union have this, already have a regulated storage and storage system. I don't see any reason why we have a little bit of the proposal of this law to be regarded as questionable clearly with some kind of shy support in the first reading. But in doing so, I would also clearly respect the opinions on improvements and such that I would say by hasty improvements to this proposal, a legislative proposal so that the second reading and the final proposal for adoption could be put in place during this sixth session. Because there is no time to wait and why farmers would wait for this Storage Act, and it has its own good side especially if the proposals are passed to ensure, or to introduce, regardless of the market order and the laws on mandatory relations that my colleague used before me, to introduce the security fund as a seventh element, the seventh factor in the basic issues that the law needs to be regulated. So other than that, when we take and factor out the parchment of what the Storage Act does, then we have general provisions. I would not repeat them, which is why this is important except for farmers to encourage the market economy, the slave economy about Slavonia, especially in other parts of Croatia. In addition to these general provisions, this Storage Act applies to the authorised warehouse and warehouse, then to the warehouse as a document with two elements. It is, then, supervision and institutional support, a security fund that would be formed together or that would be established together and invested in it by both the Republic of Croatia and warehouses interested in the warehouse, storage and this one to say one branch of the economy such as storage. In doing so, I think we need to find a balance between the role of the state and the warehouse to actually be economical, rational for those who are thinking about dealing with the storage economy. And there are certainly those who are interested in it. We know that our warehouses are quite unconditional, between 15 and 35 years old, is about the age of our grain stores and industrial plants. It should certainly be noted that this law also applies to the storage of fruit and vegetables, as it will also be of interest. I personally know both in my county and in the electoral, fifth constituency of people who have large fruit plantations, apples especially who are right now crying out for this law and regulating storage in this legal way. It is very important that the warehouse is actually a document that can be traded, which can be loaned to the bank. That should be made clear from this pay phone that the farmers know that. So it can be used as some kind of cash instrument that can be invested as a mortgage in banks, which would certainly trigger in areas where these warehouses would be driven by a faster one, it would give a swing to trade in goods, cash transactions and everything else that goes in, and what is proposed here in this law. That is why, in the first reading, we will clearly support, as well as as the club and personally this Proposal for a Law on Cereals and Industrial Plants, noting that in the second reading in any case, a security fund is to be classified as a guarantee for cases where there may also be elemental disasters, and in some other cases that have happened that someone here mentioned as a gentleman seems to me from the HNS when there were malversions and other things that are actually police and court, rather than security agencies. But if that happens, I'm also talking about natural disasters such as fires, floods, and so on, it's clear that there should be a single safety mechanism that would protect a warehouse, but also those that will be the owners of a warehouse of creditors or producers of agricultural products. Without that element, I think that, therefore, the security of this fund that should be created, and yet in agreement between interested warehouses, one balanced agreement and the ministry of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think that other reading will actually make sense. I hope that the ruling, therefore, position will assess that and I know personally that I may not be able to say and project exactly how much this security fund would cost and everything else that would go. But it certainly doesn't require much extra money in Mr. Shucker's cash register. Because when we see and hear the point before that that was here and when someone was talking to Cain or someone who had all the money being spent on the islands. When we see how much sports halls cost, Zagreb Airport in hundreds of millions of euros, Zadar port in hundreds of millions of euros, I think this is a minimum cost and it's funny, so I would say boldly that we are talking about some kind of expensiveness that we would spend or some kind of great money that could be implemented to the satisfaction of farmers, especially those who have given so many votes to this ruling coalition in Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15399	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as the vice president announced, we'd be discussing it by 13:30, and then there'd be a vote on these points of the agenda, and now I'm asking you. We have two clubs and three individual discussions. Should we finish the debate on this agenda point and then go to the vote? That would be rational. And otherwise I'd like to tell you on Fridays as a rule I don't have a break, we're working on opportunities, one and a half, two hours, voting, and so I intend if you don't mind such a practice in principle, I don't say there won't be exceptions sometimes, but let's say we do so, so here's the thing, three days of work, is the vote, and so let's say we take that rhythm. If you agree, I accept and respect other opinions. Okay, so we're gonna finish this agenda. Now it's on behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15400	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Here, on the first page of this proposal for a law on grain warehouses and industrial plants is literally said that the system, I quote: "authorised storage consists of 3 important components, these are authorized warehouses, warehouses, supervision of the proposed law is expected and more quality integration of important market entities, farmers, processors, financial institutions, business entities with recognised storage facilities" etc. On page 3, among other things, the basic objectives of the law are to create conditions for sustainable development, to ensure effective favourable financing, agricultural production based on the warehouse, to create a stable market for cereals and industrial plants. Is this law going to help us? I doubt it, to be honest with you, but I'm sure there's something you should do about it. So far, the practice in this country has been stockpiling and stocking, it's free to say whether it's a thief. So far, the practice has always been, I dare say, to the harm of the peasants. It doesn't matter if it's to the damage of the Slavonic or whatever. Until these people, these peasants sort of organize themselves, until someone honestly starts representing them, until they find someone who's really going to be an opposition, I don't mean politics here in Parliament, government, but capital, so let's go to the governments. They will plant, they will reap, they will hope to live on agriculture, but surely the cream will be harvested by others. In Croatia, we can say there is no policy of these stocks. In Croatia, however, some data indicate that from 2000 to 2007, in the seven, eight years, 1.1 billion of these stock stocks were written off, or rather this is some loss that can be shown in 1.1 billion kuna. Well, that's gentlemen, so to speak, these are donations for our islands in one year. Well it's about 50 small schools, it's 2 general hospitals, it's 1/4 of that Danube-Sava channel, etc., etc. And the stock situation at the end of last year was only 30% of that lost or stolen amount. 2007 is a planned purchase of stocks worth 201 million kuna. Clearly, none of the kunas in the budget are provided for this. But what's the state doing now? Whether by accident or on purpose, she buys expensively, and on the other hand she exports cheaply. It exports when the price is low, and it imports when the price on the world market is high and nothing to anyone. What does the Government do? By 1.7.2008, the intervention-free duty-free imports of 100,000 tonnes of wheat per tonne, and last year, in 2007, 400 thousand tonnes were exported for about 100 euros per tonne, of which 200 thousand tonnes were exported from the stock reserves. In fact, we're kind of buying that same wheat we took out earlier. We exported 400 thousand tonnes by 100 euros per tonne, so for 40m euros, we then imported 100,000 tonnes by 250 euros per tonne or 25m euros. So the math or logic of someone sitting in a government that's dealing with it is just catastrophic, not to call it maybe a real crime name. 160 thousand tonnes of imported wheat Croatia has paid as many as 400 thousand tonnes of exported. And all in a few months. Well, if that's all clear, I'm not gonna say that we're jerks, but no one in this assembly, I mean, when he's looking at that data, he's not naive to not knowing what's going on. Look, we do everything we do before harvest because we don't know what she'll be like. Will she be good, will she be bad? Well, that's amazing. Well, every farmer who enters his field, in his field in the fourth month, not the fifth month, clearly knows what he'll be like that year. I argue that all this is done in the area of these stock reserves, etc. is one thought-out policy, in one word nothing seems random because no one in this country, least people in the government are as naive as these figures show. What will this law bring? I don't know, but I know this area should be regulated. On these stock reserves, many in this country have made a lot of money, or rather a lot of money, so now that this area is likely to be regulated, let me put it that way, and they can be fair. But better late than never. But I'm going to say again, the point is out of the law, it's important in politics, and the policy in the area of commodity reserves is catastrophic. To understand ourselves, there was nothing better than during the former collapse of the state, but God damn it, it can't go any further, because in the end, the only real benefit in all of this is the biggest employers in this country. What should also be said is that the total record imports of agricultural products were in the first four of this year's months. The imports amounted to HRK 49.5 billion. It increased by 14.4%, with food imported by 3.3 billion kuna. The increase in imports was 14.5%. If importing food into nine basic product groups is observed, it is observed that only two groups export more than we import. These are fish, these are fish processed, i.e. sugar, honey and sugar products. In all other groups, imports are much larger than exports. In food imports, almost a quarter refers to fruit and vegetables. Nearly 760 million kuna or 11.5% more was spent on imports than in the same period last year. Imports of cereals and cereal products amounted to 441 million kuna, and the increase was very high in the first four months of this year by as much as 35%. The largest on the other hand, and that should be said, inflation pressure in Croatia produces a understandable price of food as much as it does, or a largely contributes to one non-existent over-supply policy, and therefore absolutely something must be done in this area, which is likely to introduce among other things and a warehouse in that people's, if it does not go differently, I guess it will be fair after that. I said I'll do it again. Croatia's government approved an intervention duty-free import of 100,000 tonnes of wheat at the beginning of this year to cover the deficits until a new harvest. This quantity, as I said, is imported at a price of 250 € per tonne, while 400 thousand tonnes of wheat were exported from Croatia last year at a price of 100 € per tonne, of which 200 thousand tonnes were exported from the stocks, without any consequences in this country. In other words, in a few months, the state has almost directly produced wheat collection on the domestic market by about 150 percent, which naturally flows to the price of bread, which I know flour and everything else. All they made was skilled speculators. First of all, Agrokor made the most of all other large companies that mobilized capital and immediately after the harvest expensively exported cheaply purchased grain from Slavonian peasants before the state realized what was happening in September 2007 and introduced high export customs duties. After that, the exports of wheat stopped, stopped, but the exports of flour started, and no customs duties were introduced, and the taxpayer finally paid, or he who must buy bread every morning, I don't know flour, pasture and so on. We'll probably be looking at these stock scandals in the future, but what we're talking about here today should be regulated, and maybe we should send Mr. Bajic to those warehouses.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15401	Thank you. It is up to Mr. Representative and Vice-President of the Parliament, Josip Friscic, on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15402	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Surely by putting into debate in front of the clubs of this issue, as set out in the Storage Act, we wanted to discuss here too, look at, offer certain solutions, simply agree, that we are all together here and our families and citizens in general depended primarily if we start from the "cruise of our day and day" and now through this looked at the positions of the one who has been doing it all year, creating and producing and when he decides. We had a situation for decades that the state bought, the state determined the price, and the one who produced it had been thinking for several hours, from field to house or silo, because, as a rule, the grain was stored and only later learned and what the price and any observations would be, part of it was deposited, but there were numerous defects as well as fellow Caine talked about, because there was no security. If you put your grain in a deposit today, regardless of the purposes that my colleague Zgrebec was talking about, in exchange for handing over the wheat, take the crops, take something else you need, very often the one who took it was sold at the right time and then resisted the country again, the politician who let it, who would have it, who would have it, and in what way. And surely the arguments here that have been presented, the draft that has been given can be even stronger, further elaborated and otherwise set up. I believe and therefore we from the HSS Club and support that the law goes into two readings, that between the two readings we hear and how they look at the government, i.e. the ministry on regulation of this issue because we are asking them for a different responsibility, and there is an explanation of one of the concepts, which means the authorised warehouse, someone has to be the one who will give a certificate to someone to guarantee given the technical equipment that the goods will retain quality and in view of all their other indicators of business and guarantees that this goods will not be swallowed by the market, and the manufacturer remains without their own compensation. It is certain that and I don't want to, and we've all defined ourselves together for the market economy, it's certainly hard to expect that we'll be back to test the stock or someone else buying out the entire annual production. But it's also certain that we are experiencing manufacturing specialization processes. They are linked, from the structure of family economies on the one hand, the privatisation of state agricultural land or the place of land in service to family economies. One process that has long been expected, because it has always been said, the peasant is a swastika, he produces everything he needs and extras of the plastic. It is now structured through family economies, heading towards goods production, but in this we must help it because it must have both the guarantee and the safety that the product it produced, the product that it joints, that it will be paid and that it can dispose of it. It is said that, even today and now, we have a part of the regulation by which we could in principle say that these products can be trafficked or guaranteed, but we do not have that in practice. Bankers ask and speak bring that lease. I'm not afraid and we're not afraid at the club that there won't be those who, according to real relationships, conditions and prices, will be willing to accept and store these products. A part of the entrepreneurs are already entering this sector today to do accommodation silo capacity for their needs, their economies and beyond. In that part he will be the organizer, the one who supports production in his space and area. After all, we encourage this through capital support from the Ministry of Agriculture programme, but surely we both desire and interest not to see order go away, that one who produced it loses its product. It's a guarantee. Here we have spoken and surely and we agree, it will be necessary to form a certain guarantee fund, but the law states that the ministry is giving authority to someone, determining that someone is capable of being a warehouse. In this way, we, or the ministry, become a guarantee, and we expect one line of responsibility to be created there. It is certain that there are risks in every business and that these risks should also be predicted and provided for by certain means. Whether through the Guarantee Fund or in some other way through the funds of the Ministry, the Government, the budget, I believe that we will present this to another reading together with the Ministry and the Government. And surely this is the beginning of regulation of relations in this area of management, that it will need and take a broader view. There were also talks here about fruit growing and vegetables because let's now take what's now in the autumn as they are here in Slavonia, Slavonics were saying here I see no one is against, and I'm often in Slavonia. Everyone's asking when you're going to pass a regulation like this, I expect that through their debate, they will help us to make the regulation even better. But there's fruit trees. And now we're talking about the ransom price of an apple 2.8 guaranteed, 2 kn and 80 is that going to be 3. We were all at the malls in January and February, then that apple or apples like that were 11, 12 to 16 kuna. It is certain that conditions should also be created in this area to adequately stock the warehouse, to ensure that the needs of its market are met. Then these import data will be much smaller, but it is certain that the manufacturer must adequately participate in that price. Because he is also left with two, three or ten days of harvesting, and all that remains is a space where someone else forms prices, is carried on the market, and many will say bearings and risks. Yeah, he's taking some risks, but he's usually making a profit. And that's why the HSS club will support the adoption of this law both as a proposing and after the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15403	Thank you very much. We still have two individual discussions. Mrs. Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15404	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that the system of authorised storage and publishing of the warehouse as a guarantee document for this storage is not regulated and needs to be regulated as soon as possible in the legislation and economic practice of the Republic of Croatia. The arrangement will benefit farmers and processors of cereals and agricultural plants, as well as traders for a simpler transfer of ownership of cereals, but also the provision of guarantees for short-term financing. The risk of proper storage is present on the domestic market and is a problem that could be used as a guarantee. The system of authorized storage shall consist of three components. It's an authorized warehouse, warehouse and surveillance. The warehouse is like a guarantee document that has not been brought into practice by the existing Law on Mandatory Relations. The law provides for a better integration of important market operators, farmers, processors, financial institutions and business entities with recognised storage facilities by authorised warehousers. The functioning of the system would be ensured through a system of market lines which would provide and lease storage space for selected warehouses, which would be partly used for public interventions, and in the second part for commercial storage. The competent institutions would monitor the rights, obligations and responsibilities of all the entities involved, and coordination would be within the competence of the Market and Structural Support Directorate. The main issues covered by this law are the regulation of a single legally regulated system of storage of cereals and industrial plants, as well as insurance to depositors, the owners of cereals protection of quality and the quantity of grain deposited at the warehouse and the introduction of the warehouse means public and legal and practical use on the domestic market as a guarantee document on ownership, which would be in function and guarantee for credit. The State has an interest in using a deposit deposit in the sense of this law, but because of its inclusion in the existing administrative inspection supervision which will be a guarantee for the exercise of legal rights and obligations under all the activities that this law provides. I expect that this bill, regardless of what is stated here today, will be of interest to all farmers, processors and financial institutions, and authorised warehouses to improve unfinished irregularities, and thus allow for the introduction of more order into this and still insufficiently arranged segment of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15405	Thank you very much. And finally Mr. Representative Dragan Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15406	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on the Cereals Storage and Industrial Plants that we have on the agenda today is very important for agricultural producers and processors of cereals and agricultural plants as well as traders. It is important for all entities in the chain of production, processing and transport, but it is also important for end-users of these products, because this law will ultimately give us better quality products on the market. Why is that? For the simple reason that cereals and other industrial plants will be kept in storage facilities that will be authorised for storage, and storage conditions will be clearly prescribed by sublaws. Who can be the authorized warehouse? Any legal or natural person established in the Republic of Croatia is registered for the storage activity, which is selected for storage operations through a public tender conducted by the Directorate for Market and Structural Support in Agriculture. The authorised warehouse selected through a public tender shall be entered in the register of warehouses held by the directory. When the whole procedure is satisfied and the authorised warehouse is entered in the register, all conditions shall be met that the warehouse may receive the goods. What is important to point out is that at this point, it is not selling, but handing over goods to storage, which will greatly help the Croatian peasant, because he will not be forced to sell goods at the time of the harvest when prices are at least, but will be able to wait for a suitable moment and the price to sell... The goods must be of particular quality why the control houses are in charge of the warehouse and the owner of the goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The warehouse is obliged to issue a warehouse, i.e. a guarantee document proving the ownership and existence of deposits in cereals and industrial plants, as well as the obligation of the warehouse to deliver it to the warehouse owner. The warehouse is a guarantee to the Croatian peasant that his goods are safe and can be available at any time with the same. The warehouse is required to keep a storage register, i.e. records of all changes made during the storage of goods, as well as records of published and stored warehouses. The warehouse is obliged to provide the warehouse and the goods, i.e. deposit in the warehouse and is obliged to compensate for any damage caused by the deposit due to failure in its work, which will be determined by the inspector responsible for the work. A warehouse is issued for the goods delivered, and the warehouse form is an integral part of this law. Each has its own serial number and consists of two parts, receipts and publishers. The owner of the warehouse shall have the right to use the same for the purpose of the conclusion of legal and other transactions, including trade or any other form of traffic. What is new in this law is that the owner of the warehouse can obtain a loan, i.e. to make a deposit of stored cereals. This option will greatly help the business of our farmers, as the law offers an alternative solution to the short-term financing of all the activities carried out by farmers and processors during one season using the trade collateral as a guarantee of the use and return of credit funds to the bank. The adoption of this law introduces more order and establishes a stable market for cereals and industrial plants in the country. Conditions are created for the favourable financing of agricultural production on the basis of the warehouse. This law creates the basis for the launch of modern grain trade and industrial plants on the stock market and creates conditions that can be sold when most favourable. The ministry's role through the directorship and inspection, the ministry has full supervision and insight into all the issues related to the storage process. In the proposal for this law, Articles 26 and seven refer to penalties. I think you should consider increasing the amount of these fines. These laws introduce a lot of newspapers and will take time and education for him to live in practice. Its application will also lead to problems that we cannot see now, so it will likely have changes and additions in the near future. But for the sake of good sides and quality solutions for Croatian peasants that are visible from this bill, I will support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15407	Thank you very much. Would Mr. Zdravko Kelić's representative like to conclude? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15408	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We're running out of time. So here I can finally just say that through a constructive debate where here's a part of the parliamentary MPs involved in this debate we tried absolutely to extract everything that was given as a proposal, what was certainly given as a suggestion to try to improve this bill. That's why we said right away at the beginning that we accepted this to be the first reading, so that through two readings we could come up with the solution that I want, and that's the interest of this law all those in this chain can find. So I thank everyone once again and, of course, I call for cooperation through another reading so that we can make one quality and good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15409	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide the fee. And the final proposal of the law on the grain warehouse and industrial plants. Since the second reading is accepted, it is not in the first reading, and in the first reading we are actually voting. The proposal for a law on grain warehouses and industrial plants is hereby adopted. And two. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 98 votes for and 1 abstentions have been accepted by these conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15412	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The selection and appointment committee for the administrative affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 19th session held on 19 September 2008 most of the votes set out the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Croatian War Veterans Committee. The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament is appointed as members: from the order of representatives of defence associations and associations from the Homeland War Mile Dedaković, Branko Borković and the Master of Science Miljenko Crnjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15413	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate and putting it to the vote. Please refer to the Committee's proposal for selection and appointments. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 92 votes for and 7 abstentions. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15414	At the 19th session held on 19 September 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the Committee of State Sports Award Franjo Bučar. First, for the president of the Committee on State Prizes for Sport Franjo Bučar is named professor of science Dinko Vuleta, dean of the Faculty of Kinesiology at the University of Zagreb. Second, for members of the National Sports Award Committee, Franjo Bučar is named: Ratko Rudić, water polo coach and menu, Tamara Boroš, Croatian national team member in table tennis, Damir Šegota, assistant chief secretary for the Olympic programme of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Gordan Kozulj, top athlete, winner of several medals at European and world swimming championships, Vjekoslav Lovrić, international handball judge, Joško Vlašić, coach Blanke Vlašić, Croatian record player and world champion in the high jump, Janko Goleš, director of Sport news, Edo Trivković, former first-class international football judge and professor of kinesiology. Third, the appointed president and members of the Committee of State Sports Award Franjo Bučar take office on 15 October 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15415	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 98 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 1 against the adopted proposal of the Selection and Appointing Committee. Thank you. The choice of appointments. I ask Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic, representative of the board to make a statement on the proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15417	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 21st session held on 24 October, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the resolution of the president and the election of the chairman of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. First, the chairman of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament Ivo Grbic is dismissed. And secondly, Anna Lovrin is elected president of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15418	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting the motion to the vote. Please, Mr. Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15419	Mr. President, we are proposing a vote for the committee's proposals by hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15420	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this proposal please raise your hand. Do you mind? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 113 votes. Who's restrained? I didn't see it. Restraint? Please, who's restrained? Please count. It was accepted with 100 votes for and 3 abstentions to this proposal. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15421	The Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held at the 21st session held on 24 October unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament Tomislav Culjak is hereby resolved. And secondly, for the member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, Anna Lovrin is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15422	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting the Committee's proposal to vote. Who's gonna raise a hand for this proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 107 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15423	The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held at the 21st session held on 24 October 2008 unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Finance and the state budget of the Croatian Parliament, Vojislav Stanimirovic, is being resolved. And secondly, Mile Horvat is elected as a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15424	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who would please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 107 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15425	On 24 October 2008, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Assembly. First, a member of the Committee on Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament Vojislav Stanimirović is being resolved. And secondly, Mile Horvat is elected as a member of the Committee on Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15426	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please, who wants to raise a hand? Thank you. Against? Are there any abstentions? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 107 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15427	At the 21st session held on 24 October 2008, the Committee for Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament was unanimously established in the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament: from the field of telecommunications Dr Mislav Grgić, from the area of maritime science professor Paval Komadin, from the area of railway Milan Brkić, from the area of road transport Tomo Vidović, from the area of the post office of Branka Sudan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15428	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15429	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Some colleagues told me not to answer because I had no chance of correcting the proposal, so now let's see. So, it's about the outside members of the Transport Committee, it's about these outside members reporting for the competition we've called. It is that these potential external members have reported to certain areas, so as you read about maritime transport, air traffic, traffic safety. And today and not just today, we've been discussing security in a broader sense, but I haven't forgotten that the safety of road traffic is still limping as you know. Well, then we need to make an effort, I appeal to my colleagues and colleagues, that this institute, the institution of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, seems to be as professional as possible, as best as possible, and therefore I don't know why you, even though I contacted you yesterday and personally, did not go through the party, but I contacted you personally, and I warned you of one proposal, which came from the Institute of Transport and Communications, to run for that place, so for road safety as an external member of the Committee on Transport, I've been emphasising Ivan Dadic since 1.10 this year and the dean of the Transport College, and when someone asks someone in this country about traffic safety, they ask him. So I don't understand why you proposed to Mr. Tom Vidovic, director of the Croatian Roads sector, who doesn't have that biography that he has. So I would not like to enter your motives now, but I would like to point out that for these reasons that I have said here, instead of Tom Vidovic for traffic safety, Mr. Prof. Ivan Dadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15430	We have one replica, Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15431	Mr. President. I'm actually going to put it this way, but unfortunately, I don't think there's any way that your proposal will pass. Because when it comes to outside members and board members, unfortunately, they often clearly judge other matters rather than expertise in a particular area. I will use the example of the Committee on Gender Equality, where this Assembly of three members has chosen one member, a member of the Foreign Committee living in America. Who reported neatly to an open competition, but he lives in America. He can't come to committee meetings, of course, but he called me yesterday and said that it's perfectly okay for him to take part in the work of the Committee on Gender Equality. And what does it have to do with the problem that this committee is dealing with, that I'm just saying that in his biography he wrote that among other things, he was an expert on UDBA issues.... UDBA. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I guess that was his qualification or maybe his living in a diaspora, qualifications to be elected a member, an external member of the Committee on Gender Equality. Well, here's colleague Šprem, this is my contribution to the debate on how and how members and board members, external members and members of individual committees are elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15432	Thank you. You could say that he's a correspondent for gender equality, and he might exist, right? Mr. Shream's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15433	I'm sorry, Mr. President, just yet to say, I don't like to say it, but here are my colleagues warning me that I forgot. I didn't forget. I don't like to say it. Mr. Tomo Vidovic is a local HDZ official, but we need experts here. If he were a prominent expert, I wouldn't mind, but compared to Professor Dadic, don't be angry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15434	Now who's going to judge who's an expert and who's not? Mrs. Majdenic, there's something you'd like to say on the occasion of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15435	Well, here's the thing: I just have to say that our Board of Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs has been working on the Rules of Procedure. So we put out a public call, which was published on September 22nd in "The People's Newspaper" on the websites and "The Newspaper". The deadline was 15 days. We got really high-quality suggestions and the board decided on these candidates, I wanted to say unanimously. I confirm that you spoke to me and said there might not be any members of the SDP so that you would suggest, but today at the meeting of the Committee on Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs was one member of the SDP. So you had the opportunity to suggest the gentleman concerned. Otherwise, we think we've chosen really high-quality people.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15436	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting the Committee's proposal to vote. Who's in, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I note that the proposal of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament has been accepted by most votes, 77 votes to, 23 against and 5 abstentions. Please move on, Madam President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15437	Thank you. At the 21st session held on 24 October 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the election of a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme. First, a member of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, Damir Sesvecan, from the MPs' order, is hereby authorised. Second, for a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, Ana Lovrin is elected from the MPs' order.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15438	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in, please raise your hand? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. The abstentions? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 105 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, the continuation of the session is therefore on Tuesday at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on aid and cooperation in the field of protection and rescue, and then the Report on the application of the European Union's access programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June. So, we're still on the agenda, and then we're going to include that minister's address. Thank you very much, and have a nice weekend, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15441	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held at the 22nd session held on 30 October 2008 unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution and Selection of Members of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Vesna Buterin, is hereby authorised. And secondly, Anna Lovrin is elected as a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15442	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Sir... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15443	Mr. President, I suggest a hand-to-hand vote for speed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15444	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 118 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15445	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 22nd session held on 30 October unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Davor Huška, is dismissed. And secondly, Ivo Grbić is elected member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15446	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 118 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15447	At the 22nd session held on 30 October 2008, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. Vesna Buterin is elected as a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15448	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 119 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15449	At the 22nd session held on 30 October 2008, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament. Branko Kuti is elected as a member of the Committee for Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15450	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal to the board, who's in favour, to vote. Who's in? Let him raise his hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? One. Thank you. This proposal was accepted by most votes; 118 votes for and 1 abstention. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15451	At the 22nd session held on 30 October 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to resolve a member of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. A member of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest in the order of prominent public employees, Desa Milkotin-Tomic, shall be dismissed on a personal request.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15452	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who's in? Let him raise his hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This proposal was accepted with most votes; 118 for and 1 abstention. This is how we ended today's vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we will conclude the sixth session of the Croatian Parliament. As things stand now, there are suggestions to begin the 7th session of the 19th month because many representatives are on the way, on, in various institutions and delegations that are mostly around half of the 9th of this 11th month, but if there are any proposals and changes then we will inform you in time. You should count on the 19th to start with that, if necessary, because the budget is being discussed and adopted, as well as some other legislative proposals that are in line with the legislation of the European Union. If necessary, then we will be sitting on Tuesday, and sometimes on Mondays to reach 15.12. while the constitutional time limit of the session is to finish what is necessary for us to finish. If we agree with that, I'd like to welcome you all together and get a good rest and, of course, see you when you get the call. Please, we're moving on to the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. Mr. President of the commission, Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15454	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 11th session held on 19 September 2008 the request of the County State's Attorney's Office in Dubrovnik from 15 April 2008 through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 14 August 2008. the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Stipe Gabrić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for reasonable doubt that he has committed criminal offences of abuse of power in economic business and forgery of the official document referred to in Articles 292 and 2 and Article 312(1). Penalty law. Mr Stipe Gabrić is a representative of the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be able to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, submitted a request for authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Representative Stipe Gabric and after the hearing of the Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 5 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following decision: Appropriations are granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Stipe Gabrić, at the request of the State Attorney's Office in Dubrovnik, the number of CDO 55/07 is sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by Act No. 536/08 on reasonable suspicion that he committed the offences referred to in Articles 292(1) and (2) and 312(1). Penalty law. You have an explanation below.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15455	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal from the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's get on with it. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 94 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 1 against. Thank you. We have a report from the mandate-immunity commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. Sesvecan, to take his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15457	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. First, we have a report on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Representative Ranko Ostojić. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 12th session held on 2 October 2008 the request of the Municipal Court in Split for the authorisation of the initiation, i.e. the conduct of the criminal proceedings against Ranko Ostojic, as it was brought against him by Prosecutor Dubravko Jagic of Zagreb for the criminal offence referred to in Article 199(2). Penalty law. Mr. Ranko Ostojić, the representative is the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same may not be initiated or prosecuted. Following the debate, the Mandate-Immunity Commission under Article 104 and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously gave 7 votes to propose the next decision to the Croatian Parliament. During the term of the term of office, authorisation for the initiation is denied, i.e. the conduct of criminal proceedings against Representative Rank Ostojic following the private suit of Prosecutor Dubravko Jagic of Zagreb for the offence of the offence referred to in Article 199(2). Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15458	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who's in favour of the commission's proposal? Thank you. Against? This is a principle question, I'd say no. Restraint? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. This proposal was accepted by most votes – 104 votes in favour and one against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15459	Report on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Marin Jurjevic. At the 12th session held on 2 October 2008 on the request of the Municipal Court in Split for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Marin Jurjevic, as against him as the subsidiary prosecutor Drago Maček of Zagreb submitted an indictment for the crime of spreading false and disturbing rumors referred to in Article 322(1). Penalty law. Mr Marin Jurjevic is a representative of the 6th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament, it shall not be possible to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings against it. The commission found that the municipal state attorney's office in Split had ruled out KDO646/07 since 29 May 2007 the criminal charges against Draga Maček, and it took over the prosecution as a subsidiary prosecutor. Following the debate, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 7 votes to propose a next decision to the Croatian Parliament. During the term of the term of office, authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Marin Jurjevic shall also be denied following the indictment of the damages as the subsidiary prosecutor Draga Maceček of Zagreb for the criminal offence of spreading false and disturbing rumors referred to in Article 322(1). Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15460	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I put this proposal to the committee for a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The result? I find that, unanimously with 105 votes, the commission's conclusion is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15461	And another report on the start of the term of office of MP Vojislav Stanimirovic and the start of the parliamentary mandate of deputy MP Mile Horvat. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 12th session held on 2 October 2008 the written request of MP Vojislav Stanimirovic from 19 September 2008 informing the commission that he was putting his representative mandate on the stand for personal reasons on 15 October 2008. As Mr Vojislav Stanimirovic was elected representative in the 6th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate of the stand-alone Democratic Serb Party in the 12th Election Unit, the stand-alone Democratic Serb Party is in accordance with Article 12(1). The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has determined that Mile Horvat as deputy representative in that election unit has begun to act as representative instead of representative Vojislav Stanimirovic. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Vojislav Stanimirovic, as well as the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy, Mile Horvat, were laid down. In accordance with Article 104, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, after the debate has been carried out, be based on Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputy MPs. On 15 October 2008, the rest of MP Vojislav Stanimirovic's term of office shall begin in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 15 October 2008 began acting as Deputy Representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15462	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am giving this proposal to the Mandate-Immunity Commission for the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal for a Mandate-Immunity Commission was adopted unanimously by 105 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask once again that if I can clean myself up a little bit of our bench material and another, I announce that on 15.10, we will not have a session this week because of, among other things, the celebration of Independence Day, etc. and other events, and we will continue the session with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. So, with that and so on, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. So, we wish you a good holiday and we'll see you at the session on Tuesday and then on the 15th of the sixth session. 11 o'clock on Tuesday. Thank you. I would like to ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to report on the request to suspend the term of office of representative Ana Lovrin and to suspend the conduct of MP Tomislav Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15464	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. So, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 13th session held on 16 October 2008 the written request by Ana Lovrin to continue her duties as President of the Croatian Parliament on 10 October 2008. Since the duty of the Minister of Justice ceased on 10 October 2008, the reasons for the suspension of the parliamentary term of office of the Minister for Deputies as set out in Article 9(1) shall be suspended. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The commission found that the stay of Ms. Ana Lovrin's parliamentary term as elected on the Croatian Democratic Community list in the 9th election unit began on 1 January 2008 because of the incompatibility of the minister of justice's duties under Article 9 of the Law and that her deputy, Mr. Tomislav Vrdoljak, began acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament on 11 January 2008. How Mrs. Anna Lovrin is in accordance with Article 13. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament submitted a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the Commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, so that the rest of the parliamentary term of office of representatives of Ana Lovrin ceased 8 days after the day of submission of the application and the same day ended the parliamentary duty of her deputy, Tomislav Vrdoljak. In accordance with Article 104, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, after the debate has been carried out, be based on Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously, with 7 votes in favour, proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision to suspend the term of office and to suspend the parliamentary term of office of deputy MPs. On 18 October 2008, the term of office of representative Ana Lovrin ceased to rest. Deputy MP Tomislav Vrdoljak on 18 October 2008 ceased to act as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15465	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a proposal to the Mandate-Immunity Commission to vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission was accepted by the majority of votes, 103 votes for and 3 abstentions. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15466	The next report on the request for the suspension of MP Radiir Cacic's term of office and the termination of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Zlatko Horvat. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Radiir Cacic at the 13th session held on 16 October 2008 to continue the conduct of the parliamentary office to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 9 October 2008. The commission found that Mr Radimir Caic was elected representative of the Croatian Parliament in the elections for the Croatian Parliament on 24 and 25 November 2007 and that he delivered a written statement to the Croatian Parliament on 21 December 2007 which puts the term of office at rest because he would continue to act as mayor of the Varazdin County, which was based on Article 9. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament is incompatible with the duties of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Accordingly, at the constitutive session of the Croatian Parliament held on 11 January 2008, the Croatian Parliament adopted a report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the elections held for MPs in the Croatian Parliament, which was held on 11 January 2008 in accordance with Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament established the beginning of the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Radimir Cacic and the start of the conduct of the representative's post as Deputy Zlatko Horvat. Mr. Radimir Cacic was relieved of the duties of the mayor of Varazdin County on 20 June 2008. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament is prescribed that upon termination of incompatibility, the legislator shall continue to act on the basis of the termination of the term of office if he submits a written request to the President of the Parliament within 8 days of the day of the incompatible term of office. The commission found that Radimir Cacic had missed the 8-day deadline, as he was relieved of the duties of the mayor of Varazdin County on 20 June 2008, and the request for re-launching of the parliamentary office was filed on 9 October 2008. The debate, which followed, highlighted the majority opinion of the members of the commission that the prescribed term of 8 days is not too pervasive but instructive, since the law did not provide for consequences for the non-activatement of the mandate within a certain period of time. In addition, Article 10 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed four cases in which a representative ceases his term before the end of the time to which he was elected and if he resigns, if he is deprived of his professional capacity by a final judgment, if he is sentenced to an unconditional prison for more than 6 months and death. Therefore, it shall not be stated that missing an 8-day period is the reason for the termination of the term of office before the time for which the representative has been elected. The Commission also considers that the legislators, based on constitutional provisions, have the right to a term of office which shall not end until after 4 years of election, Article 72. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Following the above, the Commission found that Mr Radimir Cacic had the right to activate the parliamentary mandate on the basis of the written request of 9 October 2008 and that the stay of the parliamentary mandate would cease on the 8th day following the submission of the written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the meaning of the provision of Article 13(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 104, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall carry out discussions on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote, 7 for and 1 abstention, proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the suspension of the term of office and the termination of the deputy representative's term of office. On 17 October 2008, the rest of MP Radiir Cacic's term of office ended. Deputy MP Mr. Zlatko Horvat on 17 October 2008 ceased to act as a representative. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15467	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club, Mr. Chehok. Here you go. Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15468	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. It is obvious that we will defrost the mandate of counterpart Cacic, but equally perhaps to some less obvious that today we will freeze and I would say and freeze all the legal and legislative role and dimension of this honorable House. I'm already freezing to think of what we're doing today. Not only are we changing our beliefs, especially you, dear coalition colleagues and partners from HDZ, but we are still trying to explain to ourselves something that is quite clear and complete legal ignorance to a small child. Man doesn't have to be skilled in the legal profession, man can be a complete legal alphabet, sound logic and common sense says he doesn't want to speculate, but I'll say my impression that it's a political trade couple excellency. And we're not going to be part of it as a club. We do not deny the right, but we believe that representation status is something that no one can take away, that representation status is something that ceases as the chairman of the commission said because of the higher powers. All these four are more forces, or one is when you die or because you have been convicted or for some other reason, the other is when you put your term of office on hold and when you miss deadlines. And it's not what I'm talking about just because here and let's not get angry, but our prominent constitutional expert, my colleague Seks and our colleague interpreted one thing in the summer, today interprets the other, but because all of these reasons are mainly the reason why we missed out on Bagaric, and then let's miss out on some of the other times which is actually why they question legal logic and legislative logic, so of course the idea of justice and honesty and consistency of the legal system. So if we've missed one and done something that means we're wrong about the law, we're going to miss it every time. That, ladies and gentlemen, is really questioning the entire legal system. I beg you, we all think together about what we're doing today. These are dangerous precedents for these or those reasons that a higher political force would not condition a higher legal force, you know. Because when politics will condition respect or interpretation of legal norms, then I'm afraid the legal system is over. And I think that we colleagues and colleagues are the first to warn and fight hard to respect positive legal regulations. Therefore, HSLS and HSU will not vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15469	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15470	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It is touching to listen to this pledoia for the preservation of legality in the High House, but it would be much more instructional and touching if we had listened to it on other occasions, so that coalition partners from HDZ were also called when it was defrosted to Mr. Bagaric. I appreciate Mr. Chehok's efforts, among other things, and because it is known that he is a fan and a great admirer of Mr. Cacic as a great political rival in Varazdin, but it should be said that it is not easy to talk about political trade and corruption from the position of the Mayor of Varazdin and HSLS leader in the Varazdin region, because it was not so long ago and we know very well that Mr. Cacic is here with us today in the benches precisely because by acting round around Mr. Chehok he was removed from his duty in a brutal way that is contrary to the will of the voters in the Varazdin County. But it's not a problem that we're going to discuss here today, because it's a question that voters in Varazdin County are going to be dealing with, but it's not good when we talk about high principles and goals to hide under this pay phone real motives. The fact is that there are numerous misunderstandings in our political system, and also in the regulations under which this High House works. It's not yesterday and year after year, it's being promoted. However, the fact is that the Constitution has defined that the mandate of the elected representative is incomparable. This should be respected, as Mr. Cacic has won his term at the Croatian Parliament with the will of the voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15471	Thank you. Correction Mr. Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15472	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption. I only mentioned political trade, not political corruption. And it's equally incorrect that the activity of my circle has been replaced by Mr. Cacic. He was removed because two HNS councilors decided to become independent and did not agree with Mr. Cacic's mayoral policy, and Mr. Beus knew very well, so let him clean up in his ranks first and let me be left alone because I really had nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15473	Thank you. On behalf of the club? In the name of the Club, Mr. Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15474	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I didn't come out to talk on behalf of the SDSS Club in any way about someone's clumsyness. Neither individual representatives nor us representatives of individual committees or representatives in this House in general. And there was this awkwardness. But I'm also not here to listen to the introduction to pre-election gatherings and pre-election local constellations in certain environments. And if there's anything else to say about this dispute and it really is, in the wake of a single dispute, it's better that we don't talk about it. And the dispute is in my opinion, and I'm not a legal or constitutional expert, I'm just one representative layman in this matter here, but listening to this and starting to think about this, we're actually in charge, and I'm not going to call any experts here because they've already called themselves in this matter, but we owe the public and we owe ourselves an answer to that question when the elected representative who has frozen his mandate can reactivate that mandate? No matter what the reasons for the freezing of that mandate are. Are the reasons for the conduct of a duty incompatible with the duties of representatives or are the reasons private or some third nature? And if the law is not clear enough then this House needs to find the answer that such two cases as these, first with counterpart Bagaric, the second with counterpart Cacic would not be withdrawn as a cause for the discrediting of the business we are dealing with. And we owe ourselves and the public that answer. If the above response of 8 days is not enough or is not clear enough, we must provide adequate interpretation. And this Parliament has this institute of interpretation. And we need to reach out to that, and we need to start discussing it. About someone's awkwardness or about someone's ambitions in political confrontations and something else about it, of course, is possible but not this occasion. Don't be angry that I'm on behalf of a small club, but this is really a serious issue for me as a representative and as a public debate participant. When is a indeed elected representative or advocate possible to reactivate his mandate after he has been frozen for this or that reason? And can it be limited by eight days, by 10 days, or by whatever deadline is possible? So if someone froze their mandate 10 days ago and who's going to defrost it within 10 months, can that someone do it? Can his list, his party, make a decision to change such things? We're obliged to give that kind of interpretation. So I would like to discuss this rather than discuss someone's awkwardness, our lack of knowledge in this matter, and especially I would not like to hear things that we don't really need to listen to right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15475	Thank you. Is there anyone else at the clubs? On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Andri Hebrang. Here you go. Club. Club or is it individual?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15476	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, we have found ourselves in a situation that is more legal than politically small incursions, and we at the Club discussed it in a way that the integrity of this High House and the respect of Croatian legal regulations do not in any way rock or damage the interpretation of positive laws. Our coalition partners have said in part that they cannot accept the vote on the return of Mr. Cacic. One part of our coalition partners suggested a postponement of the vote. We at the HDZ Club think it would be wise to postpone the vote for a week. This is a deadline within which the committees in charge can also be declared and in which we can carry out additional consultations, so our proposal is to postpone the vote by 7 days, president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15477	On behalf of the Club, Mr Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15478	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen representing. Here's what Mr. Hebrang says we're here to discuss and discuss the controversies created in connection with the Mandate-Immunity Commission reports. Me personally like... Although we do not have a club here in full composition not interested in the confrontation of HSLS and HNS in the Varazdin area or Varazdin County but we are here because of this, because of the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission in which it is, there are clearly numbers of regulations regarding the loss or return of the status of the Assembly representative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The rules did not therefore include a period of 8 days and therefore the Commission made a decision on the basis of this. I wonder here and all of us together ask ourselves and the rest of us whether we're going to classify this regulation so it won't be the third case, Bagaric, Cacic, Bagaric, Cacic, I'm sorry to mention names. But that's right. So, are we going to put that regulation into those measures, along with the others that already exist, by the way? So the death of the MPs, the termination of the work capacity and everything, so that it doesn't happen again. I'm not going in and I'm not going in and I'm not going in and I'm not going in and I'm not going in, and I'm not going in, and I'm not going in, and I'm not going in, and I'm not going in, and I'm not going in, and I'm not going in, and I'm not going in, and I'm not going to say, so by name and name, and I'm not even interested in who is based on the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, but to make a regulation once, to put it on and then we're going to do it and then we're going on. Because from mistake to mistake, there's no need to go. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15479	Thank you. On behalf of the club? Here you go. Arsen Bauk, on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15480	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Yesterday, members of the SDP club at the Mandate-Immunity Commission voted for Mr Cacic, to return to the Assembly in a Colloquitious manner because we believe that the Mandate-Immunity Commission has proposed and the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission in its legal interpretation because we consider the 8-day deadline to be an instructive deadline. Thus, the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, when reading this, also read a small legal lesson to all those who went to interpret the law quite rigorously that Mr. Cacic could not return. And not only Mr. Cacic, but before, Mr. Bagarić and all the other MPs who are in a similar situation, and this could be a lesson in making a similar situation happen. Any delay, making this decision will also be open to doubts about some kind of political trade, as most of the Mandate-Immunity Commission made clear yesterday as to what kind of decision it is, regardless of who it is, whether it is about Mr Cacic or anyone else, we think that this story should be interrupted and that today we should support the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15481	Thank you very much. Are there any more clubs? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We have two suggestions. One proposal is for Mr Andrija Hebrang, on behalf of the HDZ Club, to postpone the decision by one week, and another is for Mr Arsen Bauk to make the decision today. These are mostly two proposals, more or less these others were not formulated as proposals. Now it's up to us to decide what. I put the proposal first, Mr. Hebrang, who first put him to the vote to postpone by one week of making this decision. Who's up for this proposal? Let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 69 votes in favour, 26 against and 2 abstentions. This way, this second proposal has been consumed, because it has received most of it, so we will decide on the next Friday on the issue of this mandate. Sir, what do you need?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15482	Excuse me, on behalf of the club, Mr. President, I'd like to ask why we're going to be deciding next Friday what we don't know now and whether the Mandate-Immunity Commission will resign after this?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15483	I think it is up to the competent parliamentary authorities to decide, let's say for the Constitution in my opinion, and the political system should present its opinion. After that, we'll have, uh, the whole thing will be a little bit clearer, so we'll decide on that Friday. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15484	Mr. President, unfortunately, your opinion... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-19-0.u15485	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the next session is held on Wednesday 22 October. We begin with the point of trust to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Then we go to the point of today's tenth final proposal for a law on public-private partnership and so on. Good day and good-bye! Proposal for a decision to suspend the term of office of MP Radiir Cacic and the termination of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Zlatko Horvat. The Proposer is the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision, as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which is contrary to the Decision on the granting of a credible interpretation of Article 13(1). Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament that we just passed. Please, let's get on with it. Please, who is in favour of the proposal for a decision proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which is contrary to the Decision on the granting of credible interpretation. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? This decision, this is the vote. For this decision 46, 75 against, therefore, the motion for a decision has not received the required number of votes, I find that the decision has not been made.
