ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8660	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the session and debate on: - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the European Charter of Local Self-Government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 56. The Proposer of the Law is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary, the Central State Administration Office, Mr Antun Palaric, will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8661	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The introduction of a local self-government system in the Republic of Croatia in 1992 proved to be a full hit because it is a very, very successful project that we have worked hard to reach today's level of local self-government, and we can say that it is at the level of the best experiences of European countries. Back in '92. In the year when the first laws were passed, the Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion that it had committed itself, and thus the Croatian Government, that it would respect all the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. We were certainly not a member of the Council of Europe, we were not able to ratify the European Charter, we did so when, when we became a member of the Council of Europe, we did so in 1997 and after 11 years, here we are slightly returning to the memory of that time, because so life wanted me to personally represent that ratification in this honorable home. Then we ratified as many norms as we had to and continued to develop local self-government. It is difficult to mention now what has been done from this period to today, but I would point out only those specifics that we have done in the past term of this government, which is that we have established, we have passed new legislation concerning the electoral system, we have circled the area structure, following the new model of elections, we have introduced direct choices of mayors and models of resolution between mayors, mayors, mayors and municipal mayors on one hand, and possibly different political wills of elected councillors in local councils or mayoral assemblies. Furthermore, we have introduced special units of local self-government, large cities that have proved to be carriers of further decentralisation. And of the large decentralised jobs, I would particularly like to place an emphasis on the authority, on the issue of all permits and authorisations concerning the management of space, the issue of building and location permits. So in the application of all the laws, we have reached a level that represents the best practice in local self-government. There remains another unresolved issue which I believe this Parliament will address during this month, which is the Law on Working Relations in local self-government, the law has been drafted, it has been sent to all the authorities of the state government, but also to the national associations of units of regional and local self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the power of the units of local self-government, given the government's clear will to develop local self-government according to the highest standards in Europe as well. In view of our extraordinary relations, with the congress of local and regional authorities, as well as the high rankings of local and regional officials who are members of the Republic, Croatian peoples and come from the Republic of Croatia, we continue to develop and we propose that the European Charter of Local Self-Government be fully ratified. And we are determined to fully apply such a ratified charter in the Republic of Croatia. Please support the adoption of this law in order to bring this story to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8662	Thank you. The Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government, Legislativeness? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative's club, Mrs. Dubravko Shuica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8663	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam and Madam Representatives. Here, it is before us, as the Secretary of State said, the Law confirming the European Charter of Local Self-Government with the Final Bill of Law, which means ratification of the Charter as a whole. We heard from the secretary of state details about the history of our local administration and self-government. But here's a few words about the charter itself. Built in the Council of Europe on the initiative of a permanent conference on local regional units of Europe, opened for signing on 15 October 1985 and on the occasion of the 20th plenary session of Congress, ratified in 47 countries, our country, as the State Secretary of State said, joined ratification on 19 September 1997 as a Member State of the Council of Europe. The fact is that Croatia is making significant efforts to improve the framework for local self-government. What is the objective of the European Charter of Local Self-Government? Correct the lack of common European standards for assessing and protecting the rights of local authorities that they are, should be closest to citizens. Then enable citizens to participate effectively in making decisions affecting their daily lives and achieving greater unity among the members of the Council of Europe, all in order to preserve and achieve the ideals and principles that are our common heritage. What does this Charter represent? First of all, this is the first multilateral legal instrument, which protects, defines the principles of local independence as well as one of the pillars of democracy that is being advocated and protected by the Council of Europe. It is also considered an expression or test of true democracy, an expression of political will that at all levels of territorial administration, local and regional decisions can also be made. The Charter also provides standards for the effective operation of local self-government and standards guaranteeing political, administrative and financial independence of local authorities. It is also an essential contribution to the protection and strengthening of common European values, and they are, as we know above all, the rule of law with a special emphasis on human rights and freedoms. So we know that the legal basis for the exercise of human rights and freedoms in local self-government units also represents the United Nations General Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 and the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which was adopted in Rome in 1950. These are two documents that form the basis of the European standard of democracy. Let us not forget that our Constitution in Article 134(3) also said that when granting jobs, priority should be given to those bodies closest to the citizens. What will be the ratification of this charter in full? It means that public powers will primarily be exercised at the level of the nearest citizens, that relations will be specified on matters assigned to local and regional self-government and with real opportunities to carry out them in an economic and efficient manner. Also, after the ratification of this Charter, local units will have a greater possibility of adapting certain transactions that have been transferred from regional units. We're talking about county. The funding system and the financial resources schedule that we from the local administration are also going to be upgraded very often and what we are particularly interested in. It will also give rights to local and regional units, or regional units, to international associations of local units. So this charter sets basic common standards for establishing and protecting the rights of local authorities. It then provides an environment that leads to economic development and strong civil society and requires communities to develop a secure policy, to build structures, institutions that improve local development processes. The adoption of this law would achieve the highest degree of consent of the national legal framework in the area of self-government with the achievements set out in the Charter as one of the basic international contracts for that area brought by the Council of Europe. It would also remove objections from the Council of Europe, which are sometimes highlighted by the fact that the Republic of Croatia has shown its willingness to be bound only in part by the provisions of the Charter within the meaning of Articles 12(1) and 2(2) of the Charter when ratified in 1997. But then, as we have seen in the light of this law, the level of development of local self-government in Croatia was taken into account. Over the last 10 years, we have witnessed a permanent process of reforming local and regional self-government and, as I have said, certain provisions of the Charter have been incorporated even into the Constitution. In the meantime, it was passed as the secretary of state pointed out a whole series of laws that are right on the trail of this charter, and one of the fundamental principles that we advocate is decentralisation and precisely on the trail of decentralisation was passed a series of laws in this House. I can only mention a few. So, one of the most important direct choices of local and regional leaders, that is, regional self-government. Then, fiscal decentralisation in one part. Then, the status of large cities with the fact that, as the large cities have already been pointed out, were given powers that they had not so far. So all cities over 35,000 inhabitants who are county headquarters and who have more than 35,000 inhabitants were given the opportunity to issue local and construction permits. It's just one of the jobs that's been assigned to big cities, and there's going to be a whole series of trusts and new laws, as well as sublegal acts that will allow big cities to do these jobs, and everything on the trail of this charter that we're talking about. So, making decisions at a level that's closest to the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, by passing this law, our country will be classified as a group of countries that have adopted the most standards in the area of local and regional (regional) self-government. As regards the role of the Congress by the State Secretary here mentioned the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, which I happen to be one of the vice-presidents has an extraordinary cooperation with our central office and with our state and one of the topics at the plenary session at the end of May in Strasbourg will be exactly the state of local and regional democracy in Croatia, where both in the Council of Europe, i.e. in the Congress, and I am sure that adoption, means ratification of this charter will make a significant contribution to what we will discuss there in late May. And that's why I believe that all clubs will be today, that is, on Friday, agreeing to ratify the charters entirely. The HDZ Club is as you've seen from exposure for.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8664	The club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8665	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The European Charter of Local Self-Government sets out a minimum of basic principles of governance that each democratic system of local self-government should respect. It provides basic standards for the effective operation of local self-government and standards which guarantee political, administrative and financial independence of local authorities. It was adopted with the status of the European Convention, which means that the states have concluded legal obligations, and implies that articles adopted by ratification form an integral part of the legal order of the state bond charter, and national laws should comply with its standards and principles. We know that the charter contains so-called. System mandatory core, i.e. Member States shall be required to take over at least 20 of the 30 items of the first part. We confirmed that charter in '97. years and accepted that minimum number of her provisions. Due to constitutional and practical obstacles, and we can say the lack of political will at the time of accession and ratification, Croatia has decided not to take over the remaining provisions of the Charter until today, although Croatian regulations are actually in line with some of them. Today, however, I believe this, by the will of this House, I believe that we will accept the remaining, ten years ago, unaccepted provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Local and regional, or regional self - administrations, play a key role in the functioning of modern society. It contains the key to democratic principles. The right and duty of citizens to participate in decisions directly affecting their daily lives and sharing responsibilities for the functioning of common issues in their community. In addition to being important from the point of view of democratic responsibility, they are also important for the economic efficiency and well-being of the entire community. This should balance the size, organisation and employment of local self-government units so that decisions can be taken at the level closest to citizens, while at the same time effective in carrying out their tasks. Of course, there is a question of how to ensure the effective work of independent local self-government, and what standards should be respected. The answers to these questions are found in the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which sets out those basic common standards for the determination and protection of the rights of local authorities. The Charter is the first multilateral legal instrument to define and protect the principles of local independence. What are the provisions of the Charter that we haven't yet, and now we're going to accept them? In its own sense, it deserves to be explained more clearly, especially that public powers will be exercised in such a way that they prefer to belong to the authorities closest to the citizens. The Charter therefore requires that businesses be entrusted to those levels of authorities that are the lowest in the local region and which are able to carry out the task in the most effective way. We know that's the principle of subsidiarity. This provision sets out the general principle that the exercise of public powers needs to be decentralised. This does not mean, however, that powers should be decentralised if the local unit is not provided with the necessary capacity or adequate means to exercise entrusted powers. There's a rabbit in that bush, of course. In the register. A lot of good and much better than the central government could be solved, repaired, or built in municipalities and cities if we had some of the money at our disposal of the central government. Although Croatia has not declared that it is bound by this sentence, Croatian regulations are actually in line with it, because the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia contains this important principle. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution states that when granting jobs, priority will be given to those bodies closest to the citizens. But was that so? Is decentralisation enough for us? We all know together that not, that too often and too much local life has been influenced by the central state, that it has been too often and too often marked by the mark of carrots and beatings, i.e. the award or punishment system, depending on whether it is in a municipality, city or county policy and politicians at the will of Mark's square or not. There have been too often and too many cases in Croatia of Djapic Osijek, when some local project in the morning is magnificent, brilliant, phenomenal, and the afternoon is no good. The following provision is that local units should have a certain level of independence when performing tasks that are normally entrusted to central authorities. to adapt the application of delegated powers to local conditions. There is no provision in the Croatian legislative framework that would allow local units to freely decide on the exercise of delegated powers by adapting their implementation to local conditions. Therefore, local units are not independent in the exercise of delegated powers and are not allowed to take into account local conditions in the exercise of delegated powers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The law on local and regional self-government, local units must comply with mandatory orders issued by central authorities or the relevant ministry. I believe the word command will soon disappear from this article of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. The Charter also takes into account the fact that the implementation of any decision of local importance largely depends on the ability of the local community to offer sufficiently favourable conditions of implementation. The procedures for obtaining an opinion shall provide appropriate mechanisms to conclude whether or not the unit of local self-government has the capacity to carry out entrusted tasks. The acquisition of an opinion is also important as a mechanism for local self-government to ensure that changes in the local duties proposed by the state administration are in line with decentralisation, and that the state administration is not trying to transfer powers, the financial support test, or to delegate duties without the simultaneous transfer of powers which allow the local self-government unit to carry out the task. Croatian legislation does not provide for an appropriate process of obtaining an opinion that local units could influence planning and decision-making procedures on issues directly concerned. Procedures for obtaining the opinion of local units should be introduced in such a way as to obtain real opportunities to influence and comment on decisions and changes that the central government plans in local affairs. I also want to believe that local self-government will build its capacity to advocate and convince, and the state's ability to accept, especially through associations of cities, municipalities, counties. The Charter, further, accepts the principle of proportionality which obliges the supervisory authority to apply a method which has the least impact on local independence while simultaneously achieving the desired result. In the event of an irregular application of the supervision of the Charter to a local self-government unit, it provides for the right to access the legal means that the conditions and means of supervision can be subject to supervision. So we can say surveillance of the conduct of surveillance. In the first of the five paragraphs of Article 9 of the Charter requires that the system of financing of local units be relatively dynamic so that it can follow changes in economic factors. Local units should have available funding sources capable of responding effectively to their needs in a constantly changing economic environment. This implies that revenues should be provided through a system of local incomes that come from different sources and that react differently to the impact of inflation or other economic factors. It follows the provision of the Charter which requires the application of financial unification procedures intended to protect the financially weaker units and mitigate the consequences of the unequal division of the sources of funding. In order to better balance their fiscal capabilities, Croatian central authority should grant donations from the state budget to local and regional self-government units. For example, areas of special national interest i.e. areas where the Government seeks to support accelerated economic development through tax relief, particularly in coastal and war-affected areas, they receive grants from the state budget. However, we must recognise that there is no clearly defined and transparent methodology for determining and allocating funds for financial balancing that would be based on the overall analysis of fiscal capacity and the needs of all cities and municipalities in Croatia. This provision of the Charter should be considered in relation to the next provision that stresses the need to obtain the opinion of local units in all directly related issues. The allocation of financial resources is certainly one of these issues. Local units should be asked for an opinion in a way that enables them to have an effective influence in the planning and decision-making process. As already said in Croatia, there is a lack of adequate mechanisms to enable local units to play an active role in the decision-making processes of direct influence on them and this is one of the conditions for a charter to be faced and implemented in the Croatian legal framework in the future. The Charter further recommends to the extent possible the independence of local units in the spending of funds transferred from the state budget and to enable local units to set their own local priorities on the basis of the need for their competence. The Charter also requires respect for the rights of local units in access to the national capital market to borrow loans for capital investments. The countries were left with the right to determine procedures and conditions for access to these sources. The right to access the national capital market in Croatia is contained in Article 83. The law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government that says local units have the right to contract loans and issue bonds, of course within established limits and with the prior consent of the central government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on local self-government belongs to the national association of municipalities, cities and counties with one important restriction only if the decision on association is made by most municipalities, cities and counties. By accepting the 10th article of the European Charter, the space of integration extends beyond our borders. Here, these are very welcome changes in the functioning of local self-government that create preconditions for solving and the remaining weak points of the local self-government system. It is up to the legislator to decide quickly on the mechanisms for implementing these additional conditions of the Charter. In the belief that even before the summer break we will see some of the mechanisms of the Croatian People's Party club will hold this final confirmation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8666	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8667	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Vincelj cited an incorrect claim, which is that local self-government units do not have the same status by the central government, so that's not true. This government as well as the previous government certainly takes care of the even development of all our neighborhoods, so all units of local self-government, Mr Vincelj, or you don't work there in local self-government units, so you don't know enough about it. It is also false that local self-government units have no authority. They have the authority to plan. We plan and we create plans and we are the ones who purposely spend money. So it's in our control but certainly clearly justifying. Therefore, it is not nice here to hear such falsehoods this is nevertheless the highest House of the Croatian Peoples.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8668	And another correction by Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8669	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, here's a colleague falsely claims that the government is playing carrots and beatings, that it's dividing by similarity which is absolutely incorrect. I'm going to give an example that's totally the opposite. Here, the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants to build the Zagreb-Sisak highway that passes through Velika Gorica. Velika Gorica is doing everything to prevent the construction of the highway, thus preventing that investment. But this is how he behaves, for example, as a colleague claims Zagreb County because only the funds are shared by the similarity of school, city and similarity and similarity. So, all those who are not in the coalition power of Zagreb County have no chance of getting anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8670	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8671	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The SDP will support this addition of the European Charter of Local Self-Government for the following reasons. The three most important things that are complemented or changed in this European Charter. These are public authorities at the level of the nearest citizens, it is the participation of local units in decisions concerning them through surveys. So there is no more process of direct influence on local units without them, so without their participation in decisions that directly concern them. And that is what is the most important model if we want honest decentralisation of system building, financing and distribution of financial resources. Local self-government actually stems from constitutional provisions. But I must remind myself that in 1993, the property of local self-government was ethylated. So hospitals, schools, courts, everything that belonged to local self-government until then was returned to state level. It proved to be a bad experiment, unfortunately. That's why today and right now we have the addition of this charter, precisely because of '97. When we signed this charter, we couldn't sign something that was in conflict with what was law back in '93. I did. The most important thing that is not signed then and is now being complemented is the participation of local units in decisions that concern them because of the political establishment at the time. But the process went further. In 2001, a fund for balancing and enabling decentralised functions in education, health care and part of powers was transferred to local self-government units in line with the European acquis, so in accordance with European examples, and in some ways it was a process that had actually started already at the time. However, the process is not enough to stand there but should continue. What's actually the problem in Croatia is that powers, delegated powers do not monitor fiscal capacities. So in Croatia hospitals, schools don't have enough money because the process isn't continued and that's where the government has to find solutions. Some shifts have been made, but in administrative terms, in a declarative sense, but not fiscally. In hospitals and schools, every Croatian citizen deserves to have the right to equal health care and adequate health care wherever he lives. Every Croatian citizen has the right to equal, or adequate schooling and school conditions. So no matter the region, he was living in Petrinja which is poorer or in Zagreb which is richer. This is precisely the result of the constitutional law referred to in Article 137, so that the income of the units of local and regional self-government must be proportionate to their powers provided for in the Constitution. So if that's not there, then those things can't work too well. The best way to put it is to set an example. 92% of all revenues, everything achieved in Croatia is controlled by the central state government. Only 8% of income remains for local self-government units and only 8% of local self-government revenues are managed. In this process, there is obviously no fiscal decentralisation. And this last year's Law on the financing of local self-government units is doing exactly that. So for last year, it's statistics, so it's numbers, it can't be intonated. The higher income on the side of the income tax is 1.5 billion compared to the increased income tax for local self-government units. So again, this has gone beyond the central government, not to the local self-government units, and what's not good is that it's not the fiscal decentralisation process. And it is precisely this profit that is achieved in Croatia, which all Croatian citizens make, should be focused on two things. The unit of local self-government can not be motivated to attract profit unless it has nothing, unless it has that part of a financial cookie, at least one part. And also because the profits are being distributed, meaning that the profits are being made throughout Croatia, the profits should be essentially aimed at balancing. It means to balance the undeveloped parts of Croatia against the developed parts. So it's about tax redistribution, not tax, i.e. fiscal decentralisation. It's facts, it's numbers, it can't be entered, right? Unfortunately, what is still a problem in Croatia and what is seen as a key problem is redistribution by political criteria. So no matter what, I am a mathematical profession, but there is no clear and exact criterion how and where a part of a financial cake should be compared to means undeveloped by developed parts, municipalities, cities, counties go. There's no exact criterion and that's what's the main problem. There is no exact criterion for supporting entrepreneurship zones beyond the necessary entrepreneurship zones. There is no exact criterion. There's a kind of discretionary criterion. And what I would actually conclude with is that, in some ways, this charter, both in all senses and in some ways, in which it has strayed, and in some ways in which I hope that the next period will have to be supported and everything needs to be done in order to continue the decentralisation process. Unfortunately, he's been stagnating for five years on a fiscal plan, on a declarative and administrative plan there are some shifts, and I'm not contesting that. But on the fiscal plan, however, he stagnated for five years. And basically, the law on this charter should actually be called a law on decentralisation to return property to the units of local self-government, because what was recorded in 93th kind of way we now through the process of decentralisation want to go back because it proved to be a bad experiment. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8672	Thank you. We have Mr. Damir Cain's correction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8673	Mr. President, it is alleged that local self-government has only 8% of these fiscal capacities throughout the country. Local self-government if we count Zagreb and 20 Croatian counties, has a 16% stake in the total monetary mass that is shared between the state, the City of Zagreb and some 560-thousand municipalities, which cities, which county. Clearly these 16% are insufficiently mainly when it comes to counties whose fiscal capacity is the weakest, insufficient and there should be some changes because otherwise the entire system will collapse. What it looks like in the actual financial indicators of a billion kuna, I'll talk a little later at the pay phone. But the truth works out, out of those 100% budget capacities of municipalities, cities, counties and states, local self-government has 16%, the state means 84%, but it is understandable that it is absolutely insufficient for one accelerated development mainly of those areas that are not the favorites of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8674	Thank you very much. Another correction, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8675	Thank you very much. My colleague incorrectly said that in the 1990s it was a wrong move, quote: "the ownership of hospitals has been transferred from local to state level". That was a great move, buddy. I had the honour of chairing a meeting of 50 health ministers in the early 1990s, 50 ministers in European countries, and the conclusion is in all crisis situations to centralise property and finance, as savings are 20% to 30%. So decentralisation costs 20% to 30%, and that's why we did it. It is also an incorrect assumption that a decentralisation of ownership of hospitals, but not of fiscal resources, was subsequently made. That's incorrect. Those counties that want to finance their hospitals have neat hospitals, good maintenance and good health care. Those who don't want it or don't know it like Sibenik, say, have hospitals that are falling apart. Why is there a hospital falling apart in one county, and... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8676	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8677	Dear President of the Parliament, you can correct something I said, Article 209 and Article 214, but if I didn't say it, I said something else, that you don't follow fiscal capacities, so you can't sort of correct me, you can correct something I said. I am so, interpreting the Rules of Procedure, yes, something I said, not something I didn't say, so I said something like that, but I didn't say the same thing. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8678	The correction was in line with the tradition in this House and I think it was correct. Oh, let's move on. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8679	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, the HDSSB Club will not only accept this, but will accept this by hand to say to the Charter or the Proposal for a Law on Amendment and Completion of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. We regret that the provisions of this Charter have not been fully accepted before, but only partially. And here is how the entry into the European Union is actually coming, and all of these to say the Charter and the validation of the Law of the European Union, or the proposals of our legal acts, are being accepted, and so is this Charter that was on offer, let me say 10 years ago and which Mrs Shuica was talking about, but part of it has been silenced, which is that parts of this Charter were then, that is, at that time, not accepted. What did that actually result in? The result was that units of local administrations and self-government in Slavonia and Baranja experienced therefore an economic and demographic disaster. When I talk about it, it doesn't matter if that Cain model is 85. 15th or this second 99th to 8th was in use, therefore, 99th, 92% of the fiscal capacity of the state, 4% of the city of Zagreb and 4% of all other units of local administration and self-government, which is actually unbearable, which actually led to, and most of all led to, economic and demographic disasters in Slavonia and Baranja. This actually allowed fiscal centralisation and decentralisation of functions to units of local administration and self-government, and then let me say from the central register as someone has already stated here either by similarity or by some other criteria, but not according to clear criteria. If we look at the gross social product of Slavonian counties, if we look at the unemployment rates of Slavonian counties, there may be an exception to Osijek-Baranja County, then we see that these counties are quite certain after the war in the great economic lag behind the rest of Croatia. I am not saying that the adoption of this Charter will, therefore, change something quickly and quickly, quickly, but in any case it will be necessary to bring mechanisms, instruments that will include the provisions of this Charter, and then I think that they will be given some fairer distribution of exactly what, in fact, the most talked about, which is what it is about, and that is to balance economic development and gross social products in all the counties of Croatia. And what he talks about and what he can therefore complain about, but she clearly talked about it, and the experts of the World Bank talked about it, so that I don't mention here unless it's unnecessary perhaps the Croatian diocese agency which clearly detected the lag behind the municipalities, towns and county of Slavonia and Baranja compared to the rest of Croatia, especially some parts of central Croatia and the city of Zagreb. How vague is the law that we have received here, which says that, therefore, the applicable law is unclear, so the former to say the law is unclear in terms of the provisions of local self-government, administration and self-government, and that in the provisions in the articles that I am speaking here, the first part of Article 2 says this, in the internal legislation, and as far as possible, so one volunteer position as possible, is that. We also have here, from local units in an appropriate way, so completely vaguely defined, in what way, in an appropriate way, something is going to solve whether. Or says this, in Article 9, Article 9. Article 4"The systems of financing the income of local units must be sufficiently diverse...", etc.,...as much as is practically possible.". So again, as much as it's practically possible. It's just that centralization, fiscal centralization has made it possible for Croatia to develop unevenly, which is evident to all those who watch, who listen, who have eyes and ears to see it, when they come to Slavonia and Baranja, when they pass away from Novska compared to that part of Novska West. That is why, I say, we are going to accept this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law confirming the European Charter of Local Self-Government with a final draft of the law. And I hope that, while I say mechanisms, or tools, as the elements that will follow the Charter say, will lead to a more even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, I do not ignore any end, but in any case, it is obvious that some of the provisions and fiscal centralisation have led to the unbalanced development of the Republic of Croatia in that section relating to the units of local administrations and self-government in Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8680	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Drabraka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8681	Mr. President, I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that I've been keeping something quiet. So I didn't say anything. However, I have just explained the reasons why in 1997 the Charter was ratified only partly because it was taken into account the degree until then at that time of the development of local administration and self-government, and since the circumstances have now been met today, the text of the Charter is fully ratified by all its provisions. So I didn't say anything, but Mr. Representative or Mrs. Representative didn't listen very closely.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8682	Thank you. It's the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8683	Your Honor, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. President... [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8684	No, no, no, no. There is no correction or replica to the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8685	Shall I begin? Okay. [[Intruder: Start.]] Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, I think all those who think that local self-government will solve the functioning of this local system are in one great error. On the contrary. I argue that at these times when the external debt of the Republic of Croatia is EUR 34 billion, when only EUR 8.4 billion is due this year, and in order to do so, we will be in charge of an additional EUR 11 billion. So the functioning of local self-government is going to slow down this year and in the years ahead of us. The functioning of local self-government will be limited and the fiscal capacity of local self-government will weaken. You can't hope that they'll come years ahead of us to some financial redistribution. You can hope if you want some faster development of your end only in the mechanisms that will support the people who live there. Which will strengthen its economy and therefore draw on some new revenues. In one word, when it comes to local self-government, you should rely on your own pecs. Or as one of my neighbors would say, "There is no lie and the English will bring you." If I were right, I would say this redistribution of income and income taxes. So now the state leaves income entirely to the local self-government but also to the full if we exclude areas of special state concern and mountainous areas retain all profits. With Zagreb, Istria is the only one who loses significant financial resources on this basis by having all national companies stationed on its premises. One HEP, one INA, one THT, and the banks, and so on. And when, but no matter what, that receipt for Istria under this new law is either terrible or extremely unfavourable. For example, Zagreb has reduced revenues due to the loss of profit tax of 7%. The County of Istria even 13%, and the city, for example, Rovinj, is 30%. Here, in reason on page 1, I must quote this, it literally says that over the past period there has been a continuous process of reforming the system of local and regional, regional self-government, certain provisions of the Charter are directly incorporated into the Constitution. The adoption of a series of laws allowing, among other things, the direct selection of the executive body in the units of local and regional self-government. The normative conditions for the process of further decentralisation were created both functionally and fiscally. A number of specific laws have also been passed for the area of local, regional and regional self-government and so on. The truth, however, means next. Everything will be reformed in this country but local self-government won't. Why won't local self-government reform? Because that would mean strengthening one government structure. The one closest to the citizens at the expense of, say, the state central government. And no authority as things stand in this country will be able to transfer some of its power to any other power. It wasn't the case we see until January 3, unfortunately, after January 3rd. This is neither the case nor the return of HDZ to power. You'll all agree with me that power is money. If some government is left alone enough to say without the Government as the City of Zagreb can with 7 billion kuna, although I dare say Bandic needs Sanader far more in such situations than the Sanader needs Bandic, then you will clearly have less influence on that local government and that, or on that structure of government, and that is the one in power who does not want to afford it. When was Croatia fastest developed? Whether it's about Istria, whether it's about Slavonia, whether it's about Dalmatia and so on. It was fastest developed under the 1974 Constitution. True, after 1990, there was a war, the economy collapsed, markets were lost, and so on, but then after the 1974 Constitution, at some point, as many as 60% of the fiscal capacity of a middle, for example. One municipality of Buzet remained in the middle where the money was made. Today local self-government has its own, so now I'm talking about municipalities and cities, with 9% of that fiscal state capacity. The county has two percent. The city of Zagreb with 5%. It's 16% total. Or as the State Audit Office said last year. Of the 107.7 billion kuna, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, of the $128.3 billion in the country's waste is 107.7 billion. That's 84%. To the City of Zagreb 6.6 billion kuna, 5%. Countys, cities, municipalities of 14 billion kunas or that 11%. The claim I read here in this explanation, I quote, "That normal conditions for further decentralisation were created" simply does not stand. I don't want to believe that scenario he mentioned at one point, Mr. Rohatinski's financial breakdown, but while this country should return just this year as I said 8.4 billion euros and in order to do so we will be in charge of an additional EUR 11 billion decentralisation in Croatia will not be. I'm afraid we won't be watching that movie. And as shown by this 2008 budget A budget in which more than 80% of all resources go to pay, health care, social services, defenders and so on. The budget when Istra is, for example, 4 and a half percent of the population fills the budget even in the same amount of 10% represented when we look at capital investments with about 30 or 40 million kuna which clearly offends the team more that Istria itself had to allocate its own resources, not as other shipyards received from the state, for example, for the rehabilitation of the shipbuilding system. Just as we had to resuscitate our banks with our money, unlike others in Croatia, etc. Here it is said here and to this I would particularly like to refer that and the direct selection of the mayor, the mayor, is in the function of decentralisation. I claim that those who write it or lie it or are let me use a milder term in one great delusion. IDS that we understand absolutely welcome the direct selection of these local officials, but we also advocate a direct election of MPs. What's the problem, gentlemen? The decentralisation problem will not be solved by local officials because they do not pass or create laws. It's not the authority of a mayor, of a mayor, of a mayor. They can do that on their own. Thus, the direct selection of MPs directly leads to strengthening local self-government, strengthening decentralisation, etc. However, this is not clearly what the two largest parties want, and until a direct election of MPs is made possible, there is no decentralisation once again, there is no strengthening of the role of parliament, there is no weakness of the executive authority as there will be no gender equality in Parliament, as it is to assume that this choice would get the right way of saying the best. So once again, if Croatia wants to decentralisation, it is not enough for local officials only to be elected, but also for MPs. But I said, this most democratic film in this country is not going to be watching for a while, unfortunately. Second, as public pressures are being put on, the social authorities will surely lower certain functions to the local government. That's what we see, but unfortunately it doesn't drop or drop money. The money will keep the state to itself. Why? Among other things, like someone said before to blackmail local self - government, that is to say, to rule in those environments where there is no team in power today. There by the Constitution of '74. when Croatia was most decentralised, when Croatia was the fastest developed both Slavonia and Dalmatia and Istria and Zagorje, etc. The municipality's congregations were elected by judges and inspectors and head of national defence and head of territorial defence and head of finance and police and catastra. And today, local self-government can't even affect the behaviour of the matrimonials, and even local self-government won't soon be able to determine the working time of trade in one Poreč, Dubrovnik, but it'll be decided by representatives from Bjelovar or by the honors. Everyone has a legitimacy that absolutely doesn't understand how tourism works in the season and so on. What? Yeah. True, something here has changed a little when it comes to construction, etc. However, I think that is precisely because Croatia is not decentralised Croatia is going through a crisis that we are going through. True, someone here will say, come on, the councils of the municipalities may not have chosen judges or police chiefs in those councils. They chose the committees. Okay. which may not be far from the truth, but the truth is that never before and never after local self-government developed faster than it was when congregations of municipalities as it was liked to say then had the status of almost small Federation units. What we're proposing here is here on the other side. Public powers are primarily exercised at the level of the nearest citizens, further precision or in relation to the tasks assigned to local, regional and regional units with their real ability to carry out them in an effective, economic way, etc. etc. Everything, come on, it's all in principle, but at the end of the day, things will be nothing in Croatia, but give at least one. Strengthen gentlemen, first of all, to convince the team in the government, strengthen the capacities of Croatian counties. These capacities are absolutely insufficient. We used to talk about health care. The centralization of health care may be '93. I was absolutely and then against it was necessary in some parts of the war, etc. But it's not so much a problem who owns it, it's where health care funds go. The best health care I'm saying is again from the point of view of Istria we had when the SIZs were there. At that time, the health care system was closest to the citizens. In the 1990s, the health system in Istria achieved some 18 million marks of surpluses, and we had a lot of construction, and today our system is falling apart. It may seem a little better than in Sibenik or in other counties. I agree with her at the administration, in the county, but first of all in a state that, all this time with miserable limits, I dare say, has been punishing some places. Countys today are spaces that do not have a single square centimeter of land owned, whether it is building, agricultural or touristic. All that was said before by a colleague nationalized in '93. without companies, without the possibility of borrowing what the minister decides. It is clear that this charter should be ratified but I am afraid for a long time there will be no bread, and what I would also say as well as what I think should be done to redistribute funds between the state, local self-government, that one third of all funds are shared between the county and normal cities and municipalities. So 33% of the county, the cities, the municipalities, the 60s and how many 7% of them to the state. For last, what's running out of time? It is. Nothing, if it's over, to end, nothing should support this charter, how honest we were to the local self-government testifying that we were '97. adopt a minimum of rights, this is something else, but all together more than insufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8686	Thank you. We have one replica and two corrections. Replica. Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8687	Here, thank you, Mr. President. I would like to replicate my colleague Caina who said a lot of things and said nothing at the end, and especially that claim that Croatian Istria was the best living according to the '74 Constitution. I wish that were the case, but dear Damier, we can't stop time or live in the past because the past is something that's gone forever, and that past is better to forget. When today from the point of sociology of the state we take what rights were then, which was with democracy, which was with private property, which was with the protection of nature and environment and a series of other gains, those civilization values that today developed world thinks belong to that greatest zenith of development, then I have to say that in Istria it wasn't so good in Croatia either, and that if those times remained, we would still be much slower, much harder to develop. Just consider that today in Poreč in the best places of the square meters, who wants to build his villa or the house is a thousand euros, that we have a chance to capitalize your space, but we have a chance and live ourselves, we have a chance to produce your life, we have a chance to be subject to life. On the basis of that Constitution, if I were to speak in person, I could give very unpleasant examples of what the committee was doing and how he practiced his fingers on someone else's back and how no man could think or say what he wanted. But I'll say there were some good things. I'll say it was nice to walk around Buzet when the chief of police was, which you put on the committee, when the chief of the court was when you did what you wanted, and when you put your foot up someone's ass to go look for bread somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8688	I've never been on a committee or in a party.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8689	I didn't say that to you, I said that in general. I just want to say, and I don't want this to be a chance for anyone who will, but a chance to grow out of ourselves, not wait for that Englishman to bring it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8690	Thank you. We have one correction. Here you go. Mrs. Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8691	Mr. President, it is not possible for our Rules of Procedure to submit a replica when a representative speaks in a club. It's done here now and I don't think it's supposed to happen anymore because it's never happened before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8692	It's absolutely right. I appreciate the warning, that's exactly what it was. That was true, and whenever we make mistakes, we'll admit it, unlike some who never make it. So, I apologize to Mr. Caine and everyone because there's no replica to show in a lot of clubs. So it's my fault. Let's move on, correcting the incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8693	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague incorrectly stated that local self-government was elected by the presidents of courts, police, etc. in the former system. In fact, each choice of such person was exclusively within the competence of the committee. The committee. In the totalitarian communist system, it was the only committee that appointed and appointed, and the only criterion was political party resemblance. Second thing, you said it was '93. The Croatian state nationalised. The Croatian state has not nationalised, nationalised, Yugoslavia has nationalised, kidnapped, taken, stolen people what was theirs, and the Croatian state is bringing back to these same people today what is possible to bring back. It is not Croatia, therefore, but Yugoslavia did. It is truly amazing that your attempt at historical auditism and I think you must be careful what you say in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8694	So the Croatian state took all agricultural land to municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8695	We have another correction, please. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8696	Well, here you go, Mr. President. Say Mr. Cain, the new state will keep to itself to rule in areas where it is not in power, which is absolutely not true. Because according to him, so if the state doesn't give these environments money, it definitely won't attract people, if it does, to invest there, it means it's good for those environments. But the fact is, with all this untruth, I imagine the railroad should be, say, a river that's being designed, how is this railroad supposed to go? Probably Carlovec's. Then she'd go around Zagreb, and in the end she'd definitely go around Koprivnica, right? And the track is projected and the track will be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8697	Before Mr. Palaric, on behalf of the promoter, I would like to inform him that the chairman of the Committee on Economy, Mr. Dragan Kovacevic, has scheduled a meeting of the committee at 2.30 p.m. today at Janko Draskovic's hall. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Secretary of State Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8698	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Every time it comes to local self-government, the thesis is imposed that once they were municipalities, and at that time they were municipalities as local units in the former Yugoslavia had greater powers and were trying to impose the thesis that local self-government was working better then. A lot has already been corrected by respected MPs, but I will point out once again on behalf of the government, the local self-government before democracy did not exist and could not exist. It was necessary to create a political situation so that political parties could be established, that different political options could be heard, that citizens could be organised and that assumptions could be provided that free democratic multilateral elections could be held and only then could local self-government be introduced and could be introduced. As far as property is concerned, I know very well that the large assets of the former municipalities, former social property remained available to the counties, cities, municipalities and they were able to share the property within 6 months of the election. Not forest land, not agricultural land, but building land, buildings, public enterprises were then local and in many areas it was actually built. The state did not even have security spaces for its offices, nor for the authorities of the state administration where no agreement was reached. The dispute was resolved by the government commission of the Republic of Croatia to settle disputes on the rights of counties, cities and municipalities, and it applied the criteria so that the property was shared between local units and regional units of states, in the conflict it received nothing. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8699	Thank you. We have a correction. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8700	It is incorrect that Mr. Secretary of State claimed that before the 90th local democracy did not exist at all. The truth is, it was a twist, and I'm not going to repeat it at all, and abuses. If everything he said had been managed, he would have agreed with him from the municipal committee. But there were choirs of citizens, there were local communities, how effective they were and so, and here's a colleague you can laugh but Mr. Secretary of State was so elected judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8701	We have another correction, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8702	The municipalities had absolutely greater powers under the 74th Constitution than the municipalities, cities and I do not know 20 Croatian counties. Okay, come on, I can even agree that the committees chose whom they chose as the committee elected as judge of today's secretary of state, as my colleague or colleague would have said just before. But it's also true that the citizens are choosing us, and yet someone in this function knows how and by what keys these officials set up. Property, when it comes to property. County, Mr. Secretary of State, they don't have one square metre of agricultural, forest or construction tourist land or so on. tourist land. And what offends me that I haven't been able to say, I'm going to say now that we don't want to regulate this tourist land until today. That our tycoons use hundreds and hundreds of acres of camps and don't pay anyone a single kuna fee on that principle if you have any more I'll give it to you, if you don't, then I'll take it from you, but at least we change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8703	Thank you. An individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Krešimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8704	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The introduction already said that in 97, the Republic of Croatia ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government within a limited range. Here is today the draft law amending and supplementing the law where some of the articles that were not included in the ratification of the agreement should, in any case, be accepted. What are the questions here that are proposed, to settle this law. It is essential that this law amends and supplements the Law on the Confirmation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government and the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 12(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Charter expresses its willingness to be bound by other provisions, i.e. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law confirming the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The articles to be included in the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government shall be complemented by Articles 4(3), (5) and (6), Article 8(3), Article 9(4), (5), (5), (6), (8) and (8) and Article 10(2). This article 4 tells us about the detour of local self-government. It says public powers will be exercised by preferring them to belong to the authorities closest to the citizens. When granting authority to another authority, the width and nature of the task must be taken into account and the requirement of efficiency and economics. Paragraph 5 states that if the central regulatory authority transfers powers to local units, they will freely adapt as far as possible to their application to local conditions. So what I'd like to say here is that we have here last year passed a law on spatial planning and building di is said to be coming down from the state administration level to the local i.e. Regional, county and cities of more than 35,000 inhabitants. I can now issue building and location permits and all those useful permits, which I think is very good. Here I am speaking because I come from a municipality that is in one expansion, in one development, I can say that we've been having a conversation in the county and we're struggling that the county offices allow units of local self-government, means that they also set up branches or district offices in their own areas. I think it's for every commendation, because here's my community now has an open zone of 150 hectares and investments are large and domestic and foreign investors who are interested in investment and then it happens that you can't, unfortunately, solve problems, for example. in the Zapresic exhibition in the Zapresic office because it is overcrowded there and I think that in this new way we have the opportunity to have such exposures in our municipalities we will make it much easier for both domestic and foreign investors and our citizens to make it easier for all the permits that we need to bring these zones back to life and that these problems that have been here so far are quite long enough to be solved as soon as possible. This Article 8 tells us about the administrative control of the actions of local units in this case that administrative oversight of local units must be carried out in such a way as to respect the scale of intervention between the supervisory authority and the importance of the interests that are to be protected. Article 9 tells us in paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7 that any operational income of the local unit must be sufficiently diverse and evolutionary to be able to follow as much as practically possible changes in the actual costs of carrying out local authorities. So I don't get all the articles now. Here is Article 10 paragraph 2 tells us that each country must recognise the rights of local units to join together in order to protect and promote their common interests and to join the international association of local units. What I will say over the past period has been done, a continuous process of reforming the system of local and regional self-government has taken place. Certain provisions directly comply with our Constitution. Over the past few years, it has harmonised the adoption of a series of new laws allowing, among other things, the direct selection of executives to units of local self-government. We know that the new Law on the selection of municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors is here, which was passed last year. I totally agree with that law, but there may be one indiscretion that I didn't find when I read it, it says that 1/3 of the councilmen can initiate a procedure to vote non-confidential, i.e. The signing of a referendum for the replacement of mayors, mayors or mayors, and it can happen after 6 months after the election and then every 12 months, but nowhere in there is it listed what happens to this representative body or council or city, municipal or county. If that referendum falls first, second time, do they have any consequences if it doesn't pass? Because, I mean, there are consequences for executive power, but there's no consequences for representative power anywhere. Maybe we should talk about it a little bit and see before we go to that election. Also, normative conditions have been created for the process of further decentralisation, both functional and fiscal. A number of specific laws have also been passed for local and regional self-government which we must mention that this is the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the procedure for the handover of authorities, passed law last year, so we have the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, so we have this Law on Elections, as I said, municipal mayors, mayors and mayors, amendments have been passed since 2001, so '05, so '07, these are in the Law on Local Self-Government. I have to go back a little bit to the previous discussions where colleagues talked about the tax, the profit tax that is now the income of the state and the income tax which is now the income of the local self-government units. Many times already here in the assembly it has been said that some municipalities and cities are at great losses, that budgets have been cut. I can deny it. There, I did some research, there's one county, as Mr. Cain said, it's Istria, there's one city, it's Rovinj and one of the two municipalities in the whole country that had just reduced income from that title. All the other municipalities, otherwise as chief I made an effort so I talked to my colleagues around the municipalities, no one had less income from that title, everyone had bigger incomes. And if we're going to tell the truth, we need to tell the truth that all the municipalities last year and the cities were doing rebalancing to increase their incomes from that title, because the revenues grew, they didn't shrink. Speaking of '74. I have to tell Mr. Cain, I remember that year and that '74. For years at my place, a water line was built in Bistra, the streets were paved, but there was no help, not one, the only dinar from any of the municipalities that we belonged to then, Zapresic or anyone else. It was all voluntary work, all people were just contributing, paying, building, and no one was helping them out of the government at the time. All people have worked in this way, and today is a very different story, because I'm saying here from the experience that I have in these 13 years as I'm acting executive power in the community, I know that here's the state has contributed greatly to this and helped out of mountainous areas, special state care, and we have to admit that a large part of the funds, and that's not said maybe when it comes to funding, we just have a lot of cities and municipalities that have been released and paid those certain taxes, where they're getting all the income from pay taxes, etc., etc. I think the economic development of a local self-government depends on individuals. on the executive authority acting in that municipality or city or county. I'm going to speak again to an example of my community where we went to maximum stimulation means our domestic and foreign investors, where we reduced their municipal contributions, where we abolished their municipal compensation in the first year, and only at the fifth pay full price. So we didn't want to take all the money from them right away, as they're said to rob them, but we gave them the opportunity to build halls, to go, to hire people and think that the incomes are not just you, but the incomes from employment, from communal contributions, etc. I think, I'm saying, here are some reasons that surely in one unit of local self-government depend on the people who lead it. Here is the adoption of this law of the Republic of Croatia would be included in a group of countries that adopted the most standards in the field of local and regional self-government and therefore here is the law I will support as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8705	Thank you. In Article 207, paragraph 10.28 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure have expired 10 minutes. Now we have a replica. The first is Mr. Borislav Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8706	Thank you, Mr. President. The replica goes to my colleague Gulic, in support of these previous discussions. It refers to the fact that there is no change in local self-government units and is not going. Well, the changes have already been made by living in a democratic atmosphere, a multiparty, and not by someone's dictatorship to live. And today, if there wasn't that atmosphere, I certainly wouldn't be sitting in this high house, either, but someone else would have come to the dictatorship. It should also be said that the new Law on the Direct Selection of Mayors, Commissioners, Mayors, etc. one exceptional shift forward and clear that restricts the current way of executive power and moves forward, gives greater authority to the city councils, etc. So that's one step forward for sure. And to talk here about that there's no movement, so there's no development actually in this respect it's also not true. Well, by placing certain areas in areas of special state concern, mountain-mounted areas, the state gives special status to these areas and the possibilities for their development. I mean, I'll tell you on the example of the town of Vrgorec that we used it well in entrepreneurship. The Vrgorac Zone has carried out a meat industry, the Pivac Brothers. We brought in a Krach from Germany, so we brought in respectable companies that would certainly not be there and in such strength and power that there is no direct assistance from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the RES. Also, agriculture in our area is experiencing an extraordinary and significant step forward thanks primarily to the aid and incentives that we have from the state. So the government stands and the resolution ministries stand behind us and that is irrefutable. The new zone we're working on along the Ravca highway is also being built with the help of the state. Therefore, gentlemen, all the new laws on the local self-government unit and all those who actually...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8707	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8708	They think there's no step forward, obviously they're saying it from some very different initiatives. The truth is completely different.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8709	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8710	We need to see what's going on in the field.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8711	Replica, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8712	Your Honor. Well, I'll agree with my colleague Gulic in the direction of further administrative decentralisation, and we definitely agree and that's where we should go. I also agree in this section where he spoke about the problem of selecting local mayors and mayors. This is one problem we will encounter after the next local elections very likely. However, what I cannot agree with is actually what is not true that there has been fiscal decentralisation of the new tax i.e. financing units of local administration and self-government. So, according to last year's data, that's mathematical data, you can extract them, you can check them out. In total, more remained in the state budget under the new law 1.5 billion. Of course, not everyone lost. They've lost some. You mentioned some of the biggest ones they lost, you didn't mention the city of Zagreb that participated with 789 according to data from a month ago with 789 million kuna. So not everyone has lost but in principle there is less money in the units of local administration and self-government. And what I still have to point out is that it's very demotive and I said that when I had an opening debate on behalf of the club and my colleague Matkovic was talking about the meat industry in his town of Vrgorec. It's very demoting for local government, for those people who are acting at the lowest level that they can't attract investments exactly from the basis that part of these investments is not coming back from them. And in that direction part of the gain that has so far, i.e. which was before this law whether in this proportion or another should remain units of local self-government and part of the profits achieved at the national level that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia should go to the same country on a even basis, means the countries where we live in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8713	Thank you. Mr. Gulic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8714	My friend, I don't know if you've made any effort. I, as I said, am acting as chief of four mandates, and I am really in that local self-government as they say at home. The analysis and the city of Zagreb did not lose anything precisely from this title regarding income on profits and income on salaries. And who's going to admit it to him? I personally gave myself a hard time so I contacted some municipalities and cities. Everyone had some rebalancing, they increased the budgets from that title. And what about some personal examples, so I'm telling you here's my personal example that it depends on the authorities in the local self-government unit whether they're going to stimulate that capital domestic and foreign. It has a mass of ways, from reducing municipal contributions, from first resolving municipal infrastructure, from liberating the payment of municipal compensation. I did, my production halls only in the fifth year pay full price until for malls we don't give it, we said pay right away. We're only interested in those who produce and hire. So we're giving the team stimulation. I think it depends largely on the mayors, the mayors and the mayors and the mayors, and this is seen from the contributions of the surrounding municipalities and cities as much as anyone tries, as much as anyone knows how to win, and how much they feel about all these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8715	Thank you. Correction of Madam Representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8716	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to correct the wrong allegation of the esteemed colleague Gulić, namely not to blame the allegation but to misstate the public in terms of increased fiscal decentralisation in our country very well as the good moves of the Croatian Government. Since you mentioned municipalities and cities in Istria may have nominally reduced budgets in Rovinj to two other municipalities, however, these funds have increased so much by several thousand kunas or so marginally that we cannot call it a big step forward at all. Therefore, I ask you not to lead the Croatian public to the wrong opinion, and besides that, the cost of life is everywhere and so is the increase for cities and is increasing every day. Therefore, we cannot call this fiscal decentralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8717	Thank you. It is not explicitly forbidden by the Rules of Procedure to seduce the public. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8718	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. As far as this law is concerned, I'd have to start with one statement and one word at last. In fact, this will be the first time in more than four years when I will support in the Parliament the draft law which, on behalf of the Government in the Croatian Parliament, explains and defends Mr Palarić as State Secretary and I believe that this will be particularly dear to him, and simply because this bill contains in itself a proposal which I proposed two years ago from the Parliament speaker, asking the Government to finally ratify the European Charter. But then the government’s views and reasoning were different. I am really pleased that only in two years, there has been a change of attitude and the government has decided to propose ratification to the Parliament and until then unwarranted parts of the Charter. Before the content of the law, I am taking this opportunity to return to my colleagues to the representatives and colleagues who, in this debate and not only in this debate, often talk about local administration and self-government. There is no local administration and self-government in Croatia. There is state administration, local, regional and local self-government. Saying local administration and self-government is the same as defending the thesis that there is wood iron. We represent power here. People, citizens, look and listen to us, and if we keep repeating something that doesn't exist, we're misleading them, because they themselves have enough difficulty to distinguish the county regional self-government from the state administration's office in the area of some county, and their powers, tasks and competences. Let's not at least talk about something that's not there. There's no local administration or self-government. So I'm going to vote for this bill with great joy, but I have two questions. First question is for Mr. Palaric to be Secretary of State. Do we, by ratifying the remaining parts of this charter, have to amend certain laws that we have in order to apply the Charter itself? I'm giving us all a second question here in the assembly. Does the ratification of this charter also mean that we must change our behaviour, including the Rules of Procedure, and, for example, refuse to discuss any draft law, regardless of who proposes it, which refers to the powers, the part-circuit, the financing, the rights and obligations of local, local and regional self-government if the proposer has not obtained the opinion of the association of municipalities, associations of cities and the county community? Why am I asking these two questions? What we ratify today, and that is my first reason, Article 4(6) and the Charter reads: "The local unit will, as far as possible, be asked in an appropriate manner for an opinion in the preparation and decision-making process directly concerned.". So now we're ratifying this. So do we have the right to vote for any law concerning local, regional self-government and local, if we don't know what they think about it. We allowed them the law to organize their associations and... their task is to give an opinion on the proposals either, or the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second reason for Article 9(4) is that the funding systems of local units must be sufficiently diverse in order to... to the extent that this is practically possible to change the actual costs of exercising local powers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If nothing else, the ratification of this provision imposes on us the task of reanalysing what funding these are. I'm not saying now that he's good or bad, that he gives more or less money, but whether he meets this criterion. The third reason, also Article 9(5), is to protect financially weaker local units, to require the adoption of appropriate procedures or measures of financial equalisation in order to correct the effects of an unequal division of potential sources of funding, i.e. the financial burden they must bear. If you take the data on the municipality's incomes and cities per capita, per capita, original, tax, whatever you want, you will see that the least incomes per capita have municipalities and cities in particular the municipality in so-called. green Croatia. That's what I've talked about, so far, seven, eight times in Parliament. According to official data, whether it imposes an obligation to analyse why this is happening and what we can change. And the last reason. Local units will be appropriately asked for opinions on how they will be allocated redistributed sources of funding. So not only how many they will be, but how they will be given. These are four provisions that Croatia has so far not had to build into its legal system, now it has to. These are the four rules of conduct we'll probably take over this week, ratify, confirm. And I am firmly convinced that instead of competing about the past and history in committees naming discussions about what we in the Assembly can change to make it better, which we must ask the Government or the Ministry or the State Office to do better. In fact, it's not good to convince ourselves that by the very act of ratification of any charter, any international standard we solve the problem. We'll solve the problem when these standards are applied in practice. And not a single part of the government, nor this central state, so neither the locals begin to apply what, those rules that they take and give to others, that don't benefit them. We here must be in a position to pressure the central government to gradually waive certain rights and money in favour of another municipality, cities and counties in accordance with this Charter. As we sometimes need to be able to force the county to do something for the benefit of municipalities and cities, cities for the benefit of municipalities, or municipalities and cities for the benefit of local self-government. Whether it's local committees, city districts or cotters. This is our primary task when it comes to ratification not only of the European Charter, but of the general standards that we are taking over in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8719	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8720	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here is my contribution to this debate. The unquestionable fact is that the Member States of the Council of Europe are signatories, or signatories of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, with the aim of making the best, the more efficient, the more effective the Member States are to preserve ideals, principles and everything that makes our and their common heritage. Of course, one way to achieve this goal is to agree on how to manage. And here is the debate that has shown between us that we are aware of the fact that one of the main foundations of each demographic system and through this is the way of managing a local unit. It is common to all countries that citizens have the right to participate in public affairs management and these principles are common to all members of the Council of Europe. And the indisputable fact is that the realisation of that right is possible most directly at local level. Therefore, local units allow management that is or should be as effective and as close to its citizens as possible. Of course it's... the overall local self-government is an important contribution to the construction of Europe, and so are our countries, which are certainly based on the principles... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and decentralisation of power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I said in the introduction is an integral part of what is now the topic of the agenda item that we are discussing and which is the constitutional basis of Article 139. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We heard and know that in 1997 the Republic of Croatia ratified the European Charter within a limited range with a number of parameters. And the unquestionable fact is that then the adopted Charter in this form was the result of the progress achieved in the degree of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. On this point, we may have given too little of a tendency that, too much weight that such a Charter was made, such a decision was the result of the stage of democracy's development, especially the one concerning the development of democracy at the level of local self-government. Just by being created today as normative acts and in general we can express one satisfaction with the further development of the development of local democracy, and it is up to us... the process of adoption and here I am particularly pleased that, and that all debate in Parliament today has been affirmative in terms of adoption, respecting the diversity in accession and, accordingly, I am expressing that satisfaction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, what is the special point of adopting this new ratification is, above all, the approximation of public powers primarily to those closest to the citizens, which is local self-government. And here I have to tell today a colleague who just said and explained the difference to us also in the name of local self-government, administration, regional self-government. Ladies and gentlemen of the ordinary Croatian citizen's terms and titles of local, ine, self-government or administration are mostly unknown and should not even be known about it. But it is important that at the moment when a citizen or investor is talking about the sub-topics, and in particular we are talking about this moment as a contribution to this debate to the issue of building permits or to the new confirmatory, the confirmation of the main project of a citizen is an interest in obtaining valid, quality information as a basis in further its process. Do you know who he talks to first of all? In a municipality or in a city where he lives or works. And not looking at those tables that he doesn't understand as a simple citizen, he comes to his chiefs and mayors on both advice and information, and then for further action. I'm not saying this as a demagogue story, but as a daily life of work that I've been doing today as mayor or these last 10 years as I've been working in the executive government every day. So one part of the time, I tried to do it, and I tried to explain what was responsible and responsible, but after a while, I gave up. And I am immensely happy today with this fact that these new public powers are primarily approaching citizens right through the lowest level, which is the level of space of municipalities and cities in which they live. I also welcome that decision on the new, relations when it comes to building and lowering levels to the county, and they can also put some of their acts and further put them into the function of space and municipal management itself and thus create a new and important assumption that the development itself but then the development of local relations and giving and greater dignity to the personal and small man in each of his life problems and clearly mentioned here one of the real and everyday problems related to life and work. We today have extremely large investment activities in Zapresic and one of the important tasks is to take further steps in order to bring the time-attracted capital into a position and situation through investments and then through new jobs, through new jobs, through all forms and these funds return here to the premises and cities where they have been encouraged. I must also mention, and it is very important and further, the further element of the Charter is related to the upgrade of the financing system and the schedule of financial resources, which also makes me more happy, but again, I must say. In addition to the above mentioned and perhaps some local self-government of municipalities or cities, the largest number of cities and in municipalities had more resources in the city budget in the context of the budget after the new law was passed and its application in the past. Here I am not asking whether and how much more money has been given by the amended Tax on Profits Act, but the indisputable fact that cities and municipalities in most cases have received more funds than just a controversial amount but also millions. We also received an answer to the parliamentary question of one of the MPs here in the Croatian Parliament which confirmed it. My city at that time with the original budget of 120 million kunas between 12 and 14 million kunas received more funds based on such a amended law. It may be nice or less nice to hear from someone, but it is a fact that in both the budget and the rebalancing of the year it was applied is shown. Of course, I am also pleased that in the adoption and preparation of new acts an important new role has just been given local self-government in the way it says here. Survey of inclusion in the preparation and decision-making process. This only adds to the fact that life and work in local units so self-government that I get a good and quality expression through these acts and that the common synergy of quality people and human beings and that we now come up with another important question or the application of every new document, and the adoption of these principles depends on people who are ready, who know, who will and who can give real quality and suggestion in the field and get involved in the adoption. Dear fellow MPs, I thank and certainly will make a positive determination under this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8721	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first one is Mrs. Tanya Wrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8722	Thank you. First of all, let's get rid of a dilemma that's being swept through here and termologically. Is there self-government and not just management? This article 132 is very clear to me. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where it says citizens are guaranteed the right to local and regional self-government. The termology is therefore not at all controversial. I also welcome this introduction, the extension of the application of this Charter of Local Self-Government. As Mr. Deputy Mayor Zapresic also seems to me to be talking about the well-being of the principle of subsidiarity that we must do, we need to bring it as much as possible into the Croatian legal system and we need to bring it closer to the citizens of the administration. So we're heading for administrative decentralisation. However, I expect the government to introduce the agenda as soon as possible as possible as new points are introduced these days on the agenda, some concrete proposal on fiscal decentralisation. Because without it, we will in no way be able to carry out a concrete administrative decentralisation. As far as citizens are concerned, they recognize or do not recognize local self-government. Here I am from a small community, and the first thing the citizens say is I'm going to go solve some things I'm going to the community. So it's their first address to solve all the day-to-day administrative problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8723	Thank you. Answer Mr. Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8724	The very fact that today, in this Croatian Parliament, there are many respected parliamentary representatives or representatives who have been or have been from the executive authority who have contributed to further positive movements in the implementation of this law that we are now talking about, as well as all other important documents related to the development of local self-government. But this second is exactly what you confirmed what I said. So that people recognize the area of the municipalities and cities in which they live or in which they act and do not worry and often and do not understand exactly what they are so - called. more truth and it is up to us to contribute in a quality way to obtaining it we say it in cities and municipalities of obligation, but also in rights we solve the best and the best quality of all the essential elements that are necessary for every small man.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8725	Thank you. We have further replica Mr Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8726	A colleague very short. In fact, you said that it doesn't matter if citizens know the terminology and whether it's self-government, management, etc. I want to convince you that it is not the same for you and I to do everything we can to really inform the citizens of what their rights are. Look, here's two examples. Many commissioners avoid forming local communities, local committees. Why? For in the local committee I will give you countless examples of colleagues, for he wonders a little about it. There are examples. Why? Because citizens have the right then to make certain competences clear on their own, to decide, and even on certain financial resources. On the other hand, a citizen comes into the community as you say and the chief says it's not my responsibility. It's the jurisdiction of the state. If the citizen does not know what is the authority of the municipality, the city, the county, then he can be driven "thirsty across the water". But if he knows, then it won't happen. So our goal is for both of you and me to essentially not be the same and to educate citizens year by year more and more to make it work.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8727	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8728	Thank you. However, my very essence of the debate was not that the greater the information and knowledge of the citizens was indeed welcome. But the point is that every citizen or citizen or investor who comes to me as mayor even though I'm not in charge of giving right and quality information at that point. I spoke from that title, which means we welcome all those possible decentralisations that bring down at the level of the basic local self-government, which is the city or the municipality's ability to decide and make decisions. And when it comes to local committees, we are definitely one of the important segments of each municipality and city, in particular, in a dozen local committees, we discuss daily and bilely all those problems that fall within the jurisdiction and domain of local committees, and we certainly believe that their existence is kind, welcome and important for the development of every city, municipality, every place in which they live and operate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8729	Thank you. Replica Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8730	Mr. President, here is in favour of these decentralisation discussions that some mention. I'd say that maybe people don't work in local self-government units either, so maybe they don't understand the problem in its essence, in its essence. I'll be specific on the example of a city where I've been mayor for a long time. The income tax increased by 3 million under the new law. The profit tax returns completely to the local self-government units so that I will only pull one parallel to the fact that in 2001 the budget of our small town was 5 million, and today it has grown to 30. Now the answer is nowhere. He's nowhere in the air. It's very easy to answer, because I've already explained some things through the replica. I mean, to some who don't understand it, I'm just going to say one more example is that the funding that some are being called to by the 1990s. I'll mention specific schools, and there are other state services. I worked at school. I believe there are other colleagues and colleagues who have worked here. I had in Vrgorec a salary of 40% lower compared to the one in Split. In particular, I believe that my colleague Anton had that salary in Vrbovska compared to the one in Rijeka. It is not difficult to answer that today is a completely different situation, and I will tell those who do not believe in this or who advocate something else just ask their members, sympathisers and supporters if they would return to the funding that was up to those years and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8731	Mr. Turk's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8732	Certainly, Mr. MP, that the development of this young Croatian democracy in a relatively short period of time has been a long and long way to make important and big decisions. It is not disputed that there are certain mistakes in this road. But it is indisputable that, with quality cooperation, the difference between the level of local self-government from local, local, regional, and the state administration in synergy of the same common interests with quality people and personnel, and that is also very important to say we can come up with great and quality results. The unquestionable fact is that the Croatian Government has not found quality people who could pass these ideas on to life in the past period, and this would have left a dead letter on paper if there were no quality people at the premises of local self-government who could bring these ideas to life, and thus come to this day 200ths or 300ths of the economic zone that are either arranged or regulated, and has significantly turned the course of the economic period in the time ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8733	Thank you. And another replica. Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8734	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague claimed exactly, and I am glad that here in front of everyone he said that his Zapresic actually profited from the Law on the financing of local self-government units, so he got 14 million kuna more in the budget. So it should be singled out that quite certainly more than 95% of local self-government units have profited in the same way and that, in fact, one injustice has been corrected because the downturn of total income tax to local self-government units has ensured, of course, higher inflows of funds and counties and cities and municipalities, but on the other hand, what is today trying to place out of the SDP ranks turns out to be an injustice, which is that the previous profit tax that was available to local self-government units was collected in a way only that it remained where the company headquarters was located. So are big companies like INA and other banks, etc. have realised their profits in all parts of Croatia from Konaval to Vukovar and other places in Croatia, so the profit they have realised everywhere has remained exclusively in these cities and most, of course, in the city of Zagreb, our capital that we all love, but this gain has accumulated thanks to citizens from all over Croatia, and therefore the move that the government has made has meant the correction of one injustice and, on the other hand, has provided more inflow of funds to almost all units of local self-government, and in that sense, it is indeed an extremely quality move and the decentralisation of funds and the full amount of income tax has been transferred to units of local self-government. And what counterpart Matkovic just said about school salaries, even in the same cities, were not the same salaries in schools. I worked at art school at the time and I know that every month the school director had to go to Sinj and beg, ask for money for the salaries of workers who were less than twenty percent than in other schools in the same city.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8735	Thank you. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8736	It is also a colleague, that perhaps, whether there is something that may have been missed for me, I did not give enough aspect of the fact that through such a solution in all parts of Croatia, regardless of where the profit is created, it is being redistributed and those who are not factory headquarters have large plants or branches are thus corrected by one injustice that exactly where the company's headquarters goes all the money from the profit tax and certainly is one step away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8737	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8738	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law is one of the most significant laws we will pass at this fourth session. It is a direct contribution to local and regional democracy in Croatia. An extremely significant law, I think we should say today. I'm going to apologize to Secretary of State and my colleague Shuici since I came to the session a little late, we had a Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and we were 15 minutes late because of the length of the board. I hope I don't repeat anything from what you said, and I certainly won't repeat what I heard after that because it seems to me that we've been spinning an old movie a little forward, a little bit back, and that we haven't taken this opportunity to say and what's waiting for us tomorrow or in a year or two days. First of all, we will all agree that the ratification of the entire European Charter is now, so in full of all its provisions something extremely positive and that I will, of course, support it by my vote. However, it may be good to talk today about the good and bad aspects of the convention. What's missing? And that wasn't the point. First of all, it is good that the European Charter, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, may have contributed more than any other document democratisation the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, has come to a clear decentralisation, there has been a convergence of the decision-making process for citizens, citizens have come into a position to be able to directly elect their representatives, etc. etc. etc. Now, this charter, we have to say very openly to whom does it press? She is pressuring, exclusively colleagues and colleagues, on state authorities to comply with the legislation regarding the charter and all laws relating to her and if someone in a city council, the municipal council is not satisfied, he can send a letter to the Council of Europe, where Europe will send a monitoring mission and she will press the government to correct that lack. But what's important is to say. Can any of the citizens or any of the opposition in any city and municipal council be sued for the work of the mayor, for the work of the headship? Can it send an inquiry and request to the Council of Europe to base this charter on a monitor mission and to seek to correct the work of mayors and mayors? He can't. He can't. He can't. Absolutely not. Therefore, in order to correct this deficit at this point, it is working on a new very important document called the Innovation and Good Local Self-Government Strategy. The first reading of the document was made in the 10th month of last year in Valencia, Mr. Secretary of State was present and on the basis of 12 principles a poor document will be drawn up, now it is being developed to assess the work of each local and regionally elected leader, which is very important at the moment when we are facing direct elections for mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors. It'll be another surveillance mechanism. This strategy is based on the fact that it requires the new 12 principles required by local and regional... responsibility, efficiency, transparency, rule of law, ethics, expertise, innovation, sustainable development, proper financial business, respect for human rights, respect for the interests of citizens and long-term planning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is very important to agree on this document, it is very important to accept this document, it is very important that this document comes as soon as possible to these benches, on our benches for ratification when it is accepted by the Committee and by the Ministers of the Council of Europe. But there is, colleagues and colleagues and the third stage already under discussion in the further development of local and regional democracies we've heard nothing about. And that phase is next. It is evident in Europe today that there is a shortage in vertical communication of three levels of government, local, county and state. It is not only a Croatian problem, it is a problem throughout Europe. And in February of this year, an initiative was launched to move into that third area, stage three. The proposal is to take over the role of regional and local self-government representatives where the two-domestic parliaments are to the Senate, the upper home. Where there is a single parliament as in us, we are asked by our colleagues and colleagues, by you and me, to find and propose a solution together with the government, along with the county community, along with the alliance of cities and municipalities on how we will ensure permanent communication, co-operation with the three levels of government. Because even if it works best locally, best for regional government, best government if there's no communication if we're not networked, then we can't achieve optimal results. I therefore considered it appropriate, not only to support today this first phase that we are bringing to an end but also to start talking about the second and third phases that are very quickly waiting for us and I hope that the Government will have the hearing to immediately refer these documents to verification and implementation in everyday practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8739	Thank you. We have one replica, Ms. Representative Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8740	Dear colleague Doric, dear colleagues and colleagues. I absolutely agree with you that you should not only talk about this first phase but also further implementation of all documents in the entire international process concerning Croatia. I would only like to in some way to complete this exhibition and may give notice that one of the important segments of this European Charter of Local Self-Government is the European Charter on the participation of young people in the life of the municipality and the region that has been adopted by the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe and in some broader picture when we talk about the participation of citizens in local self-government units, and that is now this part of the charter that we ratify, this European Charter on the participation of young people in the life of the municipality and the region is just going one step further and it is responding to the problems that young people have a higher participation in the life of the local communities which is one of the fundamental intensities and addition to the ratification of these parts of the Charter that we have not ratified so far. I would just like to warn that we have completely ignored all the advice from the European Youth Charter in the life of municipalities and regions and when we talk about the need on the one hand to ratify international documents, and on the other hand to fully implement them when we have already ratified them and when we are committed to certain policies so that it is really okay to implement this simply all and fully more if we are behind the principles set out in this Charter or in those charters, such as those on the participation of young people who are directly derived from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8741	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8742	Comrade Lugaric, I fully agree with you. In fact, the Council of Europe has adopted some 200 conventions in the last 57, 58 years. Some of the European Member States of the Council of Europe have unfortunately ratified, mostly only a few of these conventions as far as Croatia is concerned. If we were to ask here today how many of us have ratified this convention, probably none of us would know. I asked two or three years ago for the government to essentially give us an overview of what we've ratified, which we're not and what we're planning to ratify and when. It would be good if, in the context of your proposal, we would indeed renew this request to the Croatian government and hear that information.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8743	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Luke Denon's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8744	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I truly believe that there is no person in this assembly who will not welcome such a bill that says that we will finally fully accept the European Charter of Local Self-Government and finally as Mr Lesar says. I think the time has come and that according to this proposal, as it says here, the government finally realized that at the level of local self-government there are people and citizens who are no longer little children who need their tutors and that these charters should be fully ratified, but, of course, implemented as well as citizens in this country expect much from that charter. Of course, when we adopt this charter in full in the public especially in the local self-government and administration it will be that we have finally adopted those articles that are quite important in my court and which give some kind of greater opportunity and funding and allocation of financial resources in units of local and regional self-government, and thus more responsibility for these units of local self-government. However, as I must admit in this law, I have not found what mechanisms it will be, and how this charter will be brought to life, how in the public perception of future decentralisation, the real fiscal decentralisation will be brought back to life, and when, again, it seems to me that this law is only on the trail of what I once said here, and they have misunderstood me, that this is the Government of the European Union and the fewer Croatian citizens, because the consequences that will arise from this law as it writes here are that all possible remarks of the Council of Europe are highlighted in the past period because of the fact that the Republic of Croatia has shown its willingness to be bound only by the provisions of the European Charter. Unfortunately, as expectations are high, it would be necessary, urgently, to bring these kind of mechanisms in order and what in these segments of the Charter that we are about to adopt, and very important, it says, that in reality we will indeed achieve a special point of addition of the funding system and the allocation of financial resources in units of local and regional self-government and what is standing here as colleagues and colleagues have already quite often pointed out, I would like the possibility of a polling obligation to survey local and regional units in the area of preparing and making decisions that are directly concerned. I think that by operating on this charter, this charter could be rekindled by a real legal framework on real fiscal and other decentralisation. And since I have already stressed that I do not believe much and that these statutes will be revived so quickly and so soon, it writes, and that is why I am always skeptical when somewhere in some law it is said that the implementation of this law will not require the provision of additional financial resources for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, which means that soon no real decentralisation is planned or fiscal at all, and it also seems to me that this adjudication is in some way or the need to agree with Europe, that we do not have an objection on their part, because it would not have been so in Article 3 that on the day of entry into force of this Law the provisions or paragraphs of Article 1 of this Act are not in force for the Republic of Croatia, and the data of the trala will be adopted when published in accordance with the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. When it's gonna be, we don't know. We will now practically adopt one law, one charter with a lot of expectations of local self-government units that real fiscal and other decentralisation will really take place, that this government and this government have finally respected the knowledge and intelligence of local self-government units and treat them as equal citizens and their citizens. But unfortunately, as it stands here in this Law, it will not happen so quickly, and especially because there is no indication anywhere when we will adopt part of these articles today into legal texts that will then really contribute to the fact that when normative conditions are already created for the process of further decentralisation both functionally and fiscally. When and how are we going to pass these laws that are really going to comply with this provision here? We will, of course, welcome, as I said, vote for this Charter, because it is necessary but I am afraid that it has been brought under the pressure of the European Union, that it will not be operational so quickly under this Article 3 and that we will continue to talk, as counterpart Doric says, or seek our right somewhere beyond our central authorities in European institutions and ask that then the Commission come, come and see how we respect the European Charter of Local Self-Government and how it actually works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8745	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8746	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I would like to say a brief word about the very proposal for a law amending the Act on the Confirmation of the European Charter on Local Self-Government. First of all, I will say absolutely, as well as my predecessors, that we are in favour of this bill of law because confirming the European Charter of Local Self-Government is certainly one of the highest achievements both in democracy and in the standards Europe has, which we seek. So, in the segment, for business to be done, public affairs are done at those levels of government that are closest to citizens, that financial independence and financial decentralisation are certainly mentioned in that segment, that it is also clear that we are within a limited scope of this Charter of '97. In part, we have ratified, and that this ratification will fall, we will be in a group of countries that have adopted the highest standards in local or regional self-government. However, there would certainly be a lot less debate on this subject if, with this proposal, we had also received a timetable that we would at least change in our national legislation over the next two years in order to comply with these fundamental values stemming from the European Charter. But I believe that it can be asked by this Parliament that the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deliver such a term plan to us because it certainly exists in this segment, I would say one and a national consensus. The National Consensus to do everything from this state level to strengthen our municipalities, cities or counties in the context of functional and fiscal decentralisation, because we know that centralization had its reasons at the time of the aggression on the Republic of Croatia, war, solving the problem of exiles, refugees, rebuilding the war of the destroyed country. But today we can certainly talk about European standards both in functional and fiscal decentralisation. We know, but we can certainly do this more thoroughly, so to speak, check, that out of the total fiscal capacity is somewhere at the level of other European Union countries, so municipalities, cities, means local and regional authorities are participating with 30% of the central state that has 70% in that share. As far as the rest of this is concerned, surely support, I think that this European Charter makes us one, by accepting this law, we make one significant step, a step towards strengthening local and regional authorities, and I'm going to say that there would certainly be a lot less and an amendment to the budget itself. We know that this year there were over 300 individual municipalities, cities with modest budgets of a million and a half, two, three million kunas, asking for the resolution of certain projects from pre-school education, school, municipal infrastructure, for the reasons that the budgets of the local self-government units, or county, are extremely modest. I must say, given that so far I have been participating both in local self-government and in the county self-government, that on the issue of decentralisation and in the functional and financial areas there is, I would say, one consensus at these levels in all counties, regardless of our party commitment, because it is simple, I would say one further incentive to the accelerated development of the Republic of Croatia, certainly and evening in the development of all those parts of the Republic of Croatia through the Harmonisation Fund where it is necessary to do so. Here, so much, thank you, I advocate a term plan which, as such, would be presented to us in the direction of operationalisation or harmonisation of national legislation with the fundamental values of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8747	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8748	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Well, counterpart Brkaric rightly wonders and says it would be good if this document had an additional order of activities that should follow him to live in reality. Unfortunately, I have to agree with his fear because a strategy is being developed right now. The strategy is called the National Strategy for Functional and Fiscal Decentralisation and Development of Human Resources of the Central State Office headed by Mr Palaric, who is already directly violating the rights of this European Charter, constitutional rights and a whole series of laws. Therefore, your concern is in place and the question is whether this charter, when we have a strategy being developed, will already violate it in practice at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8749	Thank you. State Secretary Antun Palaric is a proposing representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8750	... to develop a strategy and adopt a decentralisation strategy and in order to analyse the state of comparison of the Croatian local self-government, its competence as units of local and regional self-government with European countries, we have hired experts provided by the European Commission through the CARDS 2003. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] I strongly reject the idea that the government will adopt a strategy that will be contrary to any law, especially in contrast to the European Charter. We have presented the work material that experts have produced and everyone reads it in their own way and I will now inform you of a finding that these European experts have come to. And it is clearly black on white that the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia is at the highest level in the countries of Europe, so to speak. Therefore, best practice regarding jurisdiction has been applied. So it's hard to say that Croatia is a centralised country when European experts write and sign like this. But let's move on, we'll develop all corners of the Republic of Croatia. We will not only develop Zagreb, we will not let only those who have natural resources, coastal lines, coastal cities that may be able to use God's natural beauty but will encourage the development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, and we will not do it symmetryally, but on the basis of a strategy that will be adopted by the Croatian Government, which will respect all the laws adopted by this esteemed Parliament and which will bring into future alignment with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8751	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8752	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Of course, I will also accept this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the European Charter of Local Self-Government Act, because here is this opportunity to remind ourselves that the famous Dr. Quill in his even more famous work of "Democracy in America" specifically pointed out that the power of the free peoples lies in the local community. However, I will immediately point out that it is a real shame that all the good things we bring always have somehow they begin to last, so that if we take a good look at this provision of Article 3, this bill will be in force only when the terms on the conclusion and execution of international contracts are obtained. I think we are all a little tired and Croatia is tired, especially its citizens from laws that do not apply. And this is how we make our own laws with a delay in application. I think that should bring it down to the slightest possible measure that there's no illusion that there's something and it's not really there. I would like to particularly highlight this occasion and remind ourselves of the basic principles which are governed by, or on which the European Charter rests. And this principle needs to be incorporated, that is, to live through our laws that regulate and this area that is a citizen's right to just participate in the management of public affairs, that it is the right to be one of the most democratic principles and one of the main foundations of every democratic system. That the concept of the European Charter at all lies with the view of local self-government like the one that takes on jobs and the public affairs that are in the interest of citizens. That's why it was frantic for me to hear in certain units of local self-government, some of the mayors who spoke, including us in Zadar earlier as they saw the city as a company. It's not a city firm, it's not a city capital company and it's a limited liability. It's a lot more complicated than that. First of all, it should be aimed at meeting the needs of citizens. Of course, we should always follow the basic principle of economicity and the conduct of a good host. But local self-government, local self-government units have to serve even more directly the citizens' best interests. Here, when it comes to the development of local self-government units in Europe, as far as this level is concerned, it is believed that local self-government is the fourth branch of government. In addition to legislative, executive and judicial decisions in Europe, local self-government is considered to be the fourth branch of government. We have problems of course from the negative historical heritage of the oneness of the government and now from the 90th after the division of power into the fate, execution and judgment and it would be good to think and in practice consider local self-government as the fourth branch of the government a problem of communication. Splitting the government does not mean hitchhiking talks, dialogues and co-operation between the authorities. There is no crime that spreads and one that happens on the streets can't answer that's not my problem, it's the problem of the state because the efficiency of the state with their prerogatives control is just looking at what the government is and in those state segments, where elsewhere but in the units of local self-government. And the citizens will first address the municipality, so to their chief, their mayor. So, we need to change that awareness that those true leaders and the general government locals have no such authority but they didn't co-exist with us something that's normal, which is that the authorities cooperate with each other and talk to each other. Not only then, in the sense that someone is, say, the state authority in the system of control and supervision of the legality of local self-government units is called upon to do so. But in a regular way, in the regular lives of citizens, therefore, that initiatives are coming from below. There are still some municipalities and cities, including the county, that prevent some of the praises of valuable initiatives that would also help the state to see certain problems. Of course you would in such a way and power and central a... It would be more efficient and far more effective, and procedures would take place according to the principle of economics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is being raised, and the basic issue with this bill is why we are naked, why we are constantly bringing naked rights, and here the good colleagues have said why this bill has not been followed and the law that will talk about further financial decentralisation. That's what everyone in the election promised, but it's just a theme of the look for the election and then later it disappears from the political speech on its own winner. That's not good, and those who are able to exercise authority. That's not good. And how current this is, so all the political parties see when a top topic is announced in the elections, whether it's the state elections or local elections. However, I say, how and to pass such laws that will further decentralise state resources and transfer businesses and transfer financial resources to local self-government units under conditions where the Croatian state owes 34 billion euros right now. At the end of 2003, it was 18.9 billion, and we were all disgusted, of course, by those who criticized that it was a huge debt. But it seems now that this defeating fact is not justifiably ignored, because by ignoring and putting a head in the sand, the problems will not be solved, but they can still be multipled. So we have to say openly here, which is really possible to help the local self-government units financially, i.e. to decentralise the funds in such a way. I think that's the key question. There's also been a lot of mention here about jobs, but I think these jobs need local self-government units. Let's look at cities in Europe, let's look at Italian cities, German cities, there's municipal police everywhere, which means that those regular authorities that are observers so, as we have a police officer in the neighborhood, therefore, should finally become and become the authorities of local self-government units in our own cities. Because that's the way, because citizens are just experiencing it as a natural process and a natural need. Similarly, since we have some experience, but negative experience, due to earlier times, but positive experiences in Europe, and even the transatlantic countries speak of in some way not being a judicial authority, but, let's say, peace judges, they could be in the jurisdiction of local self-government units to be people who enjoy reputation, authority, trust of citizens, and in such a way, what I already have been motivated by the law in a peaceful, alternative way of resolving disputes as an alternative, or helping dissuasion of courts, such a job could certainly be taken over by peace judges who would be in the jurisdiction of units of local self-government because the people who would have the most trust of the opposing parties. When we talk about administrative surveillance, we have a lot of negative experience, but administrative oversight of local self-government units really needs to set up to respect the proportionality between the width of the government's intervention and the importance of the interest that is being protected, and less that it is in some interest to destabilise, deconcentration of the authorities, given whether this authority is co-responsing with the central authority. Therefore, the maximum objective is to treat local self-government units. But also the revision of the year isn't just because absolute freedom is gone, but freedom means one absolute responsibility. We see that, and more often, local self-government units have sinned somewhere than the state in certain segments through the ministries. And that's where I see the increased role and the state. Just maybe, here, let me say that this is a great progress that in this political thinking, that Croatia is not afraid of strengthening, at least at this declarative level of units of local self-government, so it allows international co-operation but why not expand, therefore, what is allowed by this European Charter in Article 10. Therefore, why only paragraph 2 allows the state to recognise the right of local units to join for protection and promotion, which is why we are still afraid to ratify, or to legalise and accept Article 10(3) of the Charter, that local units can, under conditions which can be provided for by law, co-operate with local units of other countries. It's only helpful and no harm done. Croatia is sure of itself, is not afraid and must not be afraid of such co-operation. And please, Mr. President, there is still an expression of the public, there are citizens who are aware of their rights, yet in the dictionary of our Croatian language this term is little... in relation to our citizens, and we need to encourage that rightly residents, citizens take over those basic prerogatives of theirs to keep the government not only selecting but constantly questioning and questioning it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8753	Thank you. We have a few corrections. The first is Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8754	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague incorrectly said that we are making some laws here, proposals, which we ourselves are postponing, we are making a decision to postpone them, to apply them, and so on. If you had read the Charter more specifically and carefully, then you would realize that Article 15 simply stands when this Charter comes into force. And here it clearly says, this Charter takes effect on the first day of the month following the end of the period of 3 months after the day, when the Member State therefore accepts and expresses its consent to be bound by the Charter. So that's what this is about. That the Charter itself prescribes that three-month delay. So you can't, you can't speak in that way and you can't speak incorrectly. And secondly, you said the debt of the state is 34 billion today, etc., you said very much. The share of the state, therefore, of what we consider state, ministry, government, etc., is reduced unlike your time when this debt has increased enormously. This is about total debt and debt both citizens and companies and so on. Let's not explain it. So the share of the state, the state itself, the state administration is shrinking and not increasing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8755	Thank you. Were you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. So you're not. Thank you. We have Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8756	Well, Mr. President, my colleague Matusic has mostly responded to this saying by power, says a colleague “authority puts his head in the sand, ignores debt” and so on. Well, it's not true at all. In fact, the debt structure really reduces the share of the state that is true. But the share of our young people is increasing, tens of thousands of young families are buying apartments that are very good and that is certain to give up and trust, their trust in power because they are aware that this debt will be able to pay off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8757	Thank you. Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8758	I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. One is why the government is afraid to suggest how much I understood in this explanation today we ratify the charter entirely. Therefore, it is not just Article 2. This is Article 10 and paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 apply to all three items. Another correction which Mrs Ingrid said at the beginning of her presentation that there was no cooperation between certain levels of government that, if there was no cooperation, we should get used to it. I have to say that there is cooperation, because if there was no cooperation, the local units wouldn't be able to function at all. Well, if you want to be specific about traffic, it's impossible to imagine life at local level if there's no cooperation, no matter what political option it was, and I think you've made a very casual finding.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8759	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8760	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. The confirmation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government also means consistent compliance with its provisions. Unfortunately, I am still not convinced that the ruling coalition's moves are going in that direction, because the basic prerequisite for respecting the charter is decentralisation. And decentralisation is not just a package of measures to be taken. It's also a way of thinking and political philosophy, and that's exactly what we're talking about when we talk about decentralisation slightly foreign to the current ruling coalition. The central government must allow local and regional self-government a higher degree of decision if it wants to respect the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and we in the SDP consider it to be 20%, that it remains regional local self-government because otherwise this Charter cannot be respected. However, many examples are that HDZ's decentralisation model is not on the trail of the European Charter, so I believe that what counterpart Palaric said is that the opinion of our colleagues from the European Union is that our cities have reached the peak of the powers they should have. I'm surprised, and I'll try to show them a few examples then. So the state doesn't have to give anything. She just needs to redistribute what she's taking. The way the money was collected in the area of local units goes into the state budget, and then discretionaryly decides who will be given what is not fair and does not lead to decentralisation. The river is the best example. There are no ministers from the river, no secretary of state, and you can see it automatically in the way the funds are distributed. Let's take health care and social care, because these are issues that are considered the most important issues in the European Charter to be addressed where citizens are closest to the institution of government, and therefore they are cities. Let's take the Clinical Hospital Center with an embarrassing amount of money for construction and equipment in 2008. Let's take an increase in the limit where the river is again cut off by 2 million kunas. Let's take the inability for Rijeka to be the founder of a polyclinic to protect abused children, and we've seen what was in the prosecutor's report on children's problems. But the city of Rijeka must not establish a polyclinic, it has no authority to do so, and Mr Palaric says the city has already reached the peak of the powers it can. Pulac Therapy Community. There's a video going on on TV lately. We raise money, give donations to build a treatment community for addicts, because in Croatia there is not a single therapeutic community. For a year, however, the building of a therapeutic community, financed by both the ministry and the city of Rijeka, has been established in Rijeka. Let's get the autists. For two years, the city of Rijeka has been offering a solution to the problem of autism in Rijeka. The Ministry of Finance refuses that. A pool complex in Canada. The finance ministry first stalled its response to the city of Rijeka's question whether it could be in debt. Then, by disallowing the money the city of Rijeka asked for, and after allowing that amount, it does not allow the city to spend that amount so that it could best monitor the dynamics of works. So this is all evidence that this decentralisation, this way of working by the current government, does not guarantee that the European Charter of Local Self-Government can be implemented. Of course, we definitely got the confirmation through the 2008 budget, where there's no "d" from decentralisation. And why isn't there? Because decentralisation reduces the ability for the central government to arbitration and to decide on some criteria that have nothing to do with objective criteria where they will give more money. I didn't mean to talk about a national strategy that talks about fiscal decentralisation and the development of human resources. However, Mr. Palaric encouraged me to say three sentences. Therefore, it concerns the concept of a strategy that provides for only partial, slow and minimal transmission of functions to cities, which completely ignores the indisputable fact that cities are fundamental factors in the economic, social and social development of the Republic of Croatia. It also worries that the proposal for a strategy does not guarantee compliance with the constitutional principle of subsidiarity under which jurisdiction is assigned to the level of government that is able to effectively and to the citizens most continuously achieve tasks, which are in Croatian cities. It is interesting to find a completely uncoordinated strategy proposal with the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, which you adopted as the ruling majority. The Government Programme is a fundamental framework for the government's action during this term of office of a completely different position than those stemming from the proposal for a strategy. The large cities as an economic, financial, cultural, health, transport and scientific headquarters of the wider environment with more than 35,000 inhabitants are practically not mentioned in the strategy's proposal as well as in other cities and municipalities, and remains the fact that the government's programme is based on a significantly different concept of functional and fiscal decentralisation than the one proposed by the strategy. The concerns and claims made in the proposal that Mr Palaric highlighted today as regards cities and municipalities say their function will remain unchanged because they are almost fully in line with best European practice. So I think why our practice wouldn't be better than this practice if it was considered to be the best European practice, and the example I set today regarding social and health care shows that this practice is not good. Therefore, the proposed exclusion of a significant part of local self-government from the decentralisation process and that part that realises most of the actual incomes of local units today when we adopt, or on Friday, when we adopt this charter, shows that we can actually suspect that it can indeed be implemented in the work of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. And therefore, although we are all giving unquestioned support to this charter, it seems to me that everyone should remain a bitter taste in the mouth and a few questionnaires in their heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8761	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8762	What my colleague Jovanovic has apostrophe, I think, is something serious, which is really causing a serious concern. In fact, the state should be objective to all units of local self-government, regardless of what is the political set and in which the combination of government is. But we are witnesses, so you can deny as much as you want, but we are witnesses, and that's what we're talking about, and that's probably what we'll talk about if something government doesn't send a message that it's inadmissible to vote for us before the election because we're in power at the state level and you'll be able to achieve both such needs and concrete. It's something inadmissible. It's political corruption. And these blue envelopes, it is also a major danger, but as it is spoken from the highest levels, that is, if those who claim to take power or to stay in power in local self-government units, during the term of office on the eve of the elections, then this is what counterpart Jovanovic is witnessing, which is happening in Rijeka. So not only is it in practice. We should first intend to make such a political speech because the central government, especially through this office, which is headed by the secretary of state, controls the legality of the conduct of units of local self-government. So what's good and allowed in one local self-government unit, is it good and allowed in the other? Is it handled in a way that calls for control, the same spotency and efficiency as in other units. Let's do one analysis about it, but in order not to exhaust ourselves in what was, with such a bang, in any case we need to break up, we need to be objective because we need to respect first of all, not just the government down there, but we need to respect the citizens who have chosen such a power.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8763	Replication response. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8764	Mr. Vice President. Well, Mrs. counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović mentioned, so another problem which clearly speaks about decentralisation in Croatia and the way the funds are distributed, so since there are no colleagues, I will have to mention here a sonic lesson which is another example of how the funds are allocated depending on where some political profit is to be achieved, and not to take care of the interests of the citizens and their political will as they voted and how power was achieved in some environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8765	Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8766	By searching precisely this analysis indicated by Mrs Anticevic, I will try and express it in some way. If it's the river or if the river goes so badly, then what's only, let's say, with Istria. There is a river, a road, a coast, a copper, 650 million kuna from the state budget, a bypass around the river of 800 million kuna. The highways are being built towards Slovenia, according to Zagreb, last year alone, the recovery of the "Third May" state budget cost a billion seven hundred and some million kunas. "Oliary" 0 kuna, Queen 250 million kuna, other Istrian shipyards 0 kuna. The Rehabilitation of the Rijeka Bank cost the state $138m when the dollar was 8th point something kuna, the recovery of the Istrian Bank from the state budget of 0 kuna. The recovery of the "Lance" 800 million kuna, the Istrian shipyards did not receive any lip. The coast 300 million kuna, the Primorko-Gorski County tourist complex with 300 to 400 million kuna, Istria 0 Kuna, the boaters were renovated when it came to the Primorje-Gorski County with hundreds of millions of dollars, Istrian with 0 kuna. Clearly, it's not enough but there are those who go much worse. Istra must be going through a lot of the worst in all of this, although per capita it is the most represented in the state budget. Otherwise local self-government according to state audit findings in this total distribution of monetary mass participates somewhere with 16%, 14 billion kuna, meaning 560 that municipalities, cities, counties plus 6.6 billion kuna Zagreb, that is the state audit for 2006 equal to 20.6 billion, the state had 107.7 billion kuna, or 84%. Therefore, if these capacities, the 560 municipalities, cities, county and the city of Zagreb increased by 20% to those 20% as proposed, I again hold that it or by little who on the ground would be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8767	Replication response. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8768	So I don't see at all what mention of these figures that my colleague Cain spoke of when it was clear that if we look at any problem that was to be solved in Rijeka, it was only by power, will and financial means of City Self-Government of the city of Rijeka, while the investment on the side of the state was minimal. I fully agree that Istria is in a similar situation, so it is simple proof that at this point the percentage that stands out for local self-government was 8, 10, 12 or 16% not enough and that only when it stays in cities in local and regional self-government is 20%, then it will be a state in which our citizens will be more satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8769	State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8770	Mr. Vice-President, I must answer the honourable representative Jovanovic because he has repeatedly accused the government of breaking his election promises, laws and so forth by adopting future strategies. Dear Representative, here's the fact that you know what's written in the work material prepared by European Commission experts is the best proof that we already respect all the provisions of the European Charter because we have delivered it to everyone. We delivered this work material made by Mr. Giovanni Marciani and his associates and opened the debate and held a conference and talked to everyone and they'll talk more. And we have no idea that we are adopting any strategy that will be contrary to the government's policies regarding local self-government and the opposite of the laws adopted in the Republic of Croatia. But this office is already fully applying the European Charter. The Law on Officials in Local and Regional Self-Government, a proposal before we referred it to the Government, sent it to the Union of Cities, the Association of Cities, the Community of County, so we consult, we ask ourselves, so it was with election laws, so it was with laws governing local self-government. There will be no solutions imposed, there will be well debated, balanced solutions and it is true that in many things we will be above the average of the European Union. I said what I had written and signed by experts, I can't talk about what was said, but it was said yesterday when we had the last monitoring board of the project, the assessment is that we are already better than many of the old European Union countries. He talked about his country, I won't mention it, but a man calls her Giovanni Marciani, so you can conclude. So local self-government is progressing, we're going to go to the maximum limits, and we want to develop all corners of Croatia is not a parole, but we're doing it, but for everyone in the world there is time. That's right, now's the time for this charter to be completely ratified. I would have to answer to Mrs. Anticevic-Marinovic, but she is not there. When imputing that surveillance does not apply the same criteria for all. That's not true. Finally, it is our position to make it true, but this is the position of the Council of Europe monitoring which was here last fall, which spoke with opposition MPs, with the mayors, visited the entire country without our presence with everyone free. The conclusion is that monitoring, administrative surveillance as we call it, is carried out in accordance with the law and there is no objection to administrative oversight. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8771	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8772	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here I have no doubt about our acceptance of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. I think we're unique here. I don't think we're unique in everything else, we've had a little political demonstration. Whether we want to or not around local self-government is always a lot of politics, so maybe it's a good thing that, at least we tell each other everything. I think that one of the topics was decentralisation of the main topics, and decentralisation actually started in 1993 when more than 400 new, mostly new municipalities, were created, clearly that there were more than 120 cities left. And now whether all the proposed municipalities were supposed to accept the formation, that's another thing. I know, for example, Samobor that two proposed municipalities didn't accept the formation because they thought they'd be better off if they stayed in town, some did, and there was a lot of politics, but here we are in the situation we're in. This decentralisation of the new municipality was able to develop on its own. Most of the municipalities resembled new municipalities, they looked like previously abandoned suburbs. The centers of the former municipalities were building mostly what they wanted, and nothing was happening in the periphery. And that's where things changed significantly because the new mayors and new members of the headship tried, got mostly normal people who got the trust of people who, as a result, could contribute to the development of the community, people believed them, a lot came about. I need a little comparison, here's a colleague of Cain's usually nostalgicly recalls a time before the '90s and lists and says a higher percentage of the money left to the municipalities. I remember those municipalities back then, all possible SIZs, USIZs, etc. But it should be said that this money paid for everything that the state is paying for today. Most of the pay, given by the state. The state now gave, then they gave municipalities and as I recall there was never enough money for anything. But there's been a lot of talk, we have so many taxes left. Since these times, I remember it's been divided into developed and undeveloped areas. So the city, or municipal government, could have had a significant impact on its development, definitely by creating conditions. If they had good spatial plans, if they came to build infrastructure, if they dropped the prices of municipal contributions, lower prices if they had municipal fees and something else, if they had a fair relationship with investors and told them exactly this you can build under these and these conditions then such cities and municipalities developed quite quickly. Then many cities remember it there in 94, 95 refused concessions. What did they say no for? I can say in some cases there were private interests, because the concession was an extremely clean job and many could already get, for example, a concession for gasification and a whole series of other things, so what could have helped develop cities and municipalities had a smooth rejection. In many cities and municipalities, the government dealt with itself. The governments were going down, it was just important who was going to take down who I thought was going to be taken down by the government, and it was just forgetting the people they chose and their communal standard. Here's not much to talk about, but here's a fellow from Osijek clearly had a big cry for Slavonia still, but I don't remember those crys before Osijek, when the same team was in power in the county, when they had a strong county power then most of it wasn't there, and after leaving the party leaving then the cry went to all mouths. We were talking about profit tax. What did the profit tax bring and what did he take away? He's brought a lot to a lot of people. Let's just say he took away a lot of it, but when I heard all those mayors, the mayors who said they didn't know a few hundred thousand kunas and a couple of million that got that decentralisation a lot, I could say I wasn't even sorry. As far as Zagreb is concerned, Zagreb should not have received these funds because most of the companies were outside of Zagreb, and yet as far as we're concerned, I'm talking about the town of Saint Sunday, and none of our companies had dislocated drives, so... lost a lot here, but here we got one piece through income tax and I think we're satisfied with that. Entrepreneurial zones certainly needed money, I think the Ministry of Economy has been quite generous here and many have been helped to build infrastructure in entrepreneurship zones. The criterion was quite simple, it should have had documentation. Many also made a request for funds, and they had no documentation, primarily building permits, and it is normal that they could not get any funds. Namely, decentralisation is extremely convenient, but for what we're comfortable with. It's convenient to get money, and let's say that money when we should actually distribute would see that we don't have it enough that's true. They'd have it rich enough, because if they got a percentage of the decentralised assets they'd become even richer and then they'd go back to why the state doesn't give these, even development. So by decentralisation, I think we would have achieved very little. Let's say the county would like some things to be centralized, let's say dumps are waste. We see a fight over it in all the county, no one's going to waste and we'd be luckiest if the government made a decision they'd be here and there, we'd finance and we'd be done. As for further interest in investors, for investors because we're talking no more profits, there's no more interest. That's not true. I think it should still be necessary to provide everything that investors come to the area, is that there is no gain but it is about employment. If we want to take care of our residents, if we want to hire them, I think we should try very hard to get investors to come and finally build something. Well, I think we have a lot of, uh, a few of the mayors that we've been in these positions for a long time, and I think we have something to talk about, and we're aware that all of this division since '93. that she actually brought everyone a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8773	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8774	Thank you, Vice President. I'm sorry a colleague has a selective memory, Mr. Representative, but I'll remind you. You're talking about cries, but you don't remember that while we were in your party as representatives of the Osijek-Baranja County, exactly, we were very much expressing our cries right on the bench of your party. But no one heard those cries from those who could contribute to Slavonia and Baranja by directing funds for Slavonia and Baranja. You have forgotten the 70 amendments we have proposed here in this Croatian Parliament for Slavonia and Baranja. You refused everything. And you're talking about crying. What kind of cry are you talking about? About crying in a way that we've pointed out to you the lag behind Slavonia and Baranja within your party, but it's political, because here is the center of power. At the same time, as we held power within HDZ in Osijek-Baranja County, we could come out for Osijek-Baranja County Investment. You know why? Well, because before 2000, we were politically alike. Well, that's what this is about. And that's what I'm talking about here in the Croatian Parliament, to reduce the political similarities that you, now within the HDZ, and tomorrow someone else, when they're here in Mark's square, can politically decide where the funds will be directed. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8775	Thank you. There's been some confusion about your party and our party. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Replica, Mr. Representative Borislav Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8776	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I agree with... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8777	Calm down, you'll get your turn when you get your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8778	I'll take some of his time later, okay? Well, if he can, I agree here. [[- Yeah, yeah, yeah.]] I agree with my colleague Markovanovic, his exhibit, but this is still one of the complements of my thinking on this subject. In fact, it's nice to hear what I've heard from many, and that's what everyone says well, it's, the final draft of the law on amending and supplementing the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and I'm going to vote on it, and I'm glad we agree on that. But after that, there goes that but. But I'm afraid, I'm afraid of this, that etc. I mean, I don't know what some people are afraid of. As far as I know, the weather of one brain has passed, it is behind us, we live in a multiparty democratic environment. Croatia is not a centralised state today either. The government is taking care of the even development of all parts. Well, that's visible. Those who go to Croatia can certainly see it well. And today there are also every day living vertical units of local self-government, county, ministry or government. It's one organism. The relationship also respects those who chose or chose the government from the lowest to the highest levels. Everyone's doing it, a lot of people admit it to us, except for the ones I'd call on duty skeptics.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8779	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Marković.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8780	Here, I'd like to thank my colleague, especially for these on-call skeptics. I have one worse name, they're professional nicknames, but we won't be offended, will we? So here's the fact that the government is very much leading the final strategy we'll probably bring together, discuss the whole country together. There's another problem. From the talks with numerous investors that I have sent to distant areas of Croatia, I have told you the land is cheap, you have new zones and further, the problem is labour. So everyone who, it would be good if all those who talk the most about it if nothing was invested in them, let them simply make a list, we have so many workers, and so many professions. I'm telling you that people will come to you. It's very difficult for them. Everyone who came, even some who came there, can't find the workforce, and that's a different story.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8781	Representative Mr. Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8782	Well, here's a clue to this selective memory, it's exactly as Mr. Kresho noticed that the municipal budgets were derived from the police's salaries, but it also affected who would be the chief of police, which is what someone in Zagreb decides today, which is why someone from a local level or at a local level had an impact on it. It's the same way that the salaries were made, let's say, for the cadastre, but the chiefs of the cadastre were elected, and that could have some effect, as well as on the head of finance and so on. The other thing I'm saying is, he says there was no money for anything earlier. It's literally a quote. But when did 400 thousand apartments were built that were bought for 4 or 5 thousand marks there in the early '90s? When was everything that was privatized after the '90s? Also before the '90s. When did hotels were built that were privatized after the '90s? Well, before the '90s. When health homes were built, when banks formed that were true after the '90s were rescheduled with 14 billion kunas, but sold for 7 billion kuna. And it was built or rather founded before the '90s. Now, in that, Kruno, I recognize this nostalgia of mine or my narration, as I would say, which I personally regrettably did not participate in after the '90s. I didn't participate too much in creating it, but they are my parents, and yet of all that, probably like you, we don't have any of that. And today, what does it all come down to? This whole life somehow, come on, we've been fighting a war, it's gotta be admitted and it costs, we've rescheduled that banking system the way we are. Only for the recovery of shipbuilding is 30 billion kuna. But it usually all comes down to five handball halls when our health care is bankrupt, when our entire system is falling apart. Therefore, there should be little measure and need to know what priorities are and should also not lead a double policy, end of the front row because there are those who share the political worldview...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8783	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8784	To those who are in government and the end of second grade, if they are those who have no connection with the people who are in executive power on the other side of Mark's square.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8785	The reply to the replica Krunoslav Markovović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8786	My friend Damir and I would have a lot to talk about, finally and talk about over these tiles. I've got to go a little bit 'cause we're reminiscing these times, at least we're getting older and we're building these apartments a little bit. Well, everyone was out of their pay for the housing funds of some kind. Therefore, if it had remained in the pay, it would have been convenient. It'd just be a problem for those apartments to be assigned to. That's where the criterion was very different. The likes of them got three-room, four-person flats, the unsuitable didn't get anything, but nothing at all. Here you go, gentlemen, dots in hand, sacks of cement and what you would say is these do it yourself. So that's how it went. As far as the hotel is concerned, they were built, but let's remember a little when debt was due back suddenly the banks grabbed their own, many left without a hotel because the banks clearly wanted to collect what they wanted. We have again on who he is, where he is to build by similarity. Well, by your criteria, I should be a bit like my colleague Cain, so I haven't noticed that I have any use for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8787	Five minutes of debate. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8788	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since at the club of the Croatian People's Party, we believe this is an extremely significant document, an extremely significant law and ratification of the European Charter is entirely something that we consider to be dedicated to these five minutes at the end of the debate. I would like to repeat that we at the HNS are pleased with this ratification and we hope that the provisions we ratify today will be applied quickly in practice. The Croatian People's Party club, however, warns that the work of developing local and regional democracy in Croatia has not been completed. The HNS Club asks representatives of the Croatian Government, the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers to support Europe's Charter of Regional Democracy, which will soon be on the agenda of the Committee of Ministers and we ask the Croatian Government to send the document to ratification in this House as soon as possible. That's what we're looking for when it comes to a strategy for innovative and good local self-government. The document passed the first reading in Valencia in the 10th month of last year, this autumn there will be a second reading in the Netherlands if I am not mistaken after which it will be found on the Committee of Ministers, and we are also asking the representatives of the Croatian Government who will be present to support the document and then forward it to us for ratification. The HNS club also asks the Croatian government to organise a local self-government week in October each year, according to a recommendation from the Council of Europe. You didn't do it last year, you were asked to do it last year for the reason that citizens, media and all of them are informed about these major innovations, the changes that are happening in this area. Therefore, please, we even suggest that perhaps even two topics in that week be direct elections for the mayors, mayors and mayors but also these provisions that we have ratified here today, these new provisions should also be made public, explained to our citizens as well as further. Finally, the Croatian People's Party Club asks the Croatian Government, the Croatian Parliament, the county community, the Union of Cities and the Union of Municipalities to agree on a quality and lasting form of co-operation of three levels of government, co-operation in the planning of joint projects, cooperation in monitoring the implementation of these joint projects, because the existing model that we have heard is based on the political similarity by verticals is certainly unacceptable, humiliating and not in line with the command that we have ratified today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8789	Thank you. HDSSB club Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8790	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here at the beginning, of course, the HDSSB will support these changes and complement the European Charter, but what I would like to stress once again in this short time of five minutes. So in our country, according to counterpart Cain, 84% of the country's total income remains in central, here at Mark's square. Only 16% go to the municipalities, to the cities, to the county. 2% in the county. So what can be done with 2% of the money. Making important decisions on important, important projects at local level? Is that it? I will not compare Zagreb, Zagreb is big. He's got 5% left. But lagging behind in the development of Croatia's individual regions and especially the lagging behind of Slavonia and Baranja are we going to stop or contribute in this way. Our mouths are full of the uniform and even development of the Republic of Croatia. And how is that done, in what way? In such a way that whoever has central state power, that political option shares, simply divides, gives gifts to municipalities, cities and counties, depending on who behaves as a government at the level of the municipality, the city and the county. Well, there are a number of such examples, aren't there? Just a few examples. Is it necessary that and what is actually the consequence of what is happening at Sibenik County Hospital? Is it possible that Sibenik County Hospital has enough resources? Oh, you transferred your powers to health school. So did you, with the transfer of those powers, follow financially? Well, obviously in Sibenik, you're not, no matter who's been acting in power. I'm not talking about the political option right now. Or we could say, we didn't do it here in the Croatian Parliament and do it. What's it called for by the government and the head of customs, and the head of police? Is that necessary? Well, I don't think so. Also state land, we are also waiting for a gift from the state when it will transfer to the property of the city to, or municipalities, for example, open an economic zone. Just as for incentives for infrastructure in economic areas, we are again waiting for the state. Therefore, the time is running out, but I think this law is a fundamental prerequisite, to say that it is good, we will accept it, but that 33% of the income certainly one third should go to the units of local and regional self-government, that there should continue to be a deconcentration of powers, but followed by financial decentralisation, of course, by changing the tax system, by regionalisation, which is not a topic here, but very soon here in the Croatian Parliament will be a subject as one of the preconditions for the European Union. And of course all this is behind this speaker I am giving to think why not as once a county home, given that we will certainly have a region in the Republic of Croatia, I hope with such decentralisation and powers as well as the fiscal and regional home of the Parliament. Therefore, legislative changes and changes should be considered, including constitutional changes, but let me conclude, time is running out. The HDSSB will support these amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8791	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8792	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that this government shares political similarities with the hands and hats of those municipalities and cities where HDZ holds the power, funds from the state budget. In fact, this government is indeed evenly deploying and according to one single criterion, and this is the prepared project. In particular, in our county, if that were the case, the city of Ploce, neither the town of Metkovic, nor the town of Korčula, nor Vela Luka would receive money for those projects that are happening today. And huge projects happen, such as the Korčula swimming pool, roads are made in the Plots, ports are done, so indeed this government is the sole criterion of their quality project. And all the cities and municipalities that, and the county, that prepares quality projects are absolutely certain that they will encounter support... The authorities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No matter who acted in them and who didn't. And another thing. My colleague, we remember your advocating that, by political resemblance, money from the state budget is being shared. That's what we remember when you were at the club. We didn't accept that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8793	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8794	Injury 209, sequence 210, 211, 212, 213, 214 and here's a check. So colleagues, I didn't mention this government, this government as you insinuate. I mentioned the laws, so if you want the Constitution and the way they're being implemented. Whether or not, here's to using your expression right now your government is going to be someone else's tomorrow, but I think all governments are ours eventually. So you didn't correct my claim because I wasn't talking about your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8795	Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8796	Mr. Vice President, I mean, I've certainly heard well that the esteemed colleague Šišljagic is given by similarity, so, about the same thing I'll say about the same thing as my colleague Matušić. That's not true. The best example is my neighboring city of Ploche where the SDP is in power. They certainly got as much as he got in that, the policy of even development and my city of Vrgorac. So it's given based on projects you either have or you don't have. So it's given evenly. Croatia is developing and a stronger step by step, colleague Šišljagicu, and it can't be, I said it here once in this Assembly already, it's of course a sentence, "it can't be covered by the palm of the sun", is that clear. And I hope that tomorrow there will be no other government but that there will be a government that is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8797	Third Amendment Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8798	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to correct my colleague Šišljagic in the claim that the funds are shared in political resemblance. It is simply not true, numerous examples are right in Osijek-Baranja County that this government has funded significant projects in municipalities and cities in which the Croatian Democratic Community is not in power,... Notes, including Osijek itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a model of allocation of money by political resemblance is precisely characteristic of the government in Osijek-Baranja County where the HDSSB is the holder of power and, as a rule, for those municipalities that are not close to the HDSSB in the county budget, there is no guarantee of anything, therefore, and the municipalities are greatly deprived.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8799	Next correction, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8800	Mr. Vice President, I would also correct Mr. Šišljagic's incorrect allegations that the money from the state budget is being allocated politically similar. I'm not going to list all of those projects that are realized by the unknown, the western bypass of corridor 5c that is being built, large water supply projects, large gasification projects etc., university, campuses and all that. But I will give a very obvious example where this similarity is absolutely out of the question, even if it is, it confirms something contrary, and this is the fact that last year because of the conflict in the city government of which you were an actor, the Croatian government intervened with 200 million kunas as in no city in the State which will also host the world handball championship and allowed the building of the hall. So, with 200 million kuna. And we can't say that this government was similar. If you're talking about that kind of political whether, uh, the key to the assignment. It is also certain that such cities and municipalities in Osijek-Baranja County that have withdrawn the most funds in the Republic of Croatia from all cities and municipalities of the economic zone, that Osijek would also withdraw only if you had made assumptions about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8801	Dear Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8802	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, here's what I would say, although there were more incorrect allegations than my colleague Šišljagic, which is when he spoke about the problem of Sibenik Hospital and Health. We're all aware of the health situation. But the law that passed ownership rights to hospitals, to the county, means from the state level, passed the coalition power in 2002. Well, I think Mr. Shislagic knows. And among other things, the same thing when he was talking about the percentage of the government's share of government and local self-government, so we have to say 22 billion in health care don't stay in the state, they go to all units of regional self-government. So they're going to county hospitals. When you're taking so... It's the same with education and a lot of others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are a lot of things for politicizing, but when math is put on, it looks quite different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8803	And Mrs. Representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8804	Here's the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will also correct only one in a series of false allegations already corrected by other fellow parliamentary representatives, and I would like to correct the allegations in which Mr. Šišljagic brings directly to the link funds from decentralised functions that are intended to be used as a consequence, i.e. which are not the direct consequence of the situation in the general hospital. And for all of us for information, the city of Sibenik is preparing a certain space in the city itself for the construction of a new hospital. But once again, funds from decentralised functions do not have a direct consequence of the situation at the General Hospital in Sibenik, and I ask that such a situation is not used for day-to-day political purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8805	SDP club, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8806	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, the end of the SDP will support this charter. We think it's good, we need to bring it. The things in it that bind Croatia should be realized and realised, and in that sense I am happy. However, I am saddened by the fact that some MPs and their debates have focused on things from the past. I'm facing the future and I'm standing right here in front of you and I'm glad that we can discuss and make something that may pave the way for future decisions, and I'd like to be more concerned about the future and less about the past. Three key things I mentioned at the outset, which will result in the commitment of this European Charter. The first is the availability of public administration, i.e. local administrations and regional, good local and regional self-government to citizens. Some things are being moved here, but on an administrative basis and what we're going to stand for, and what we expect, and this year, is further decentralisation on a fiscal basis. So it can't just be transferred, it can't just be transferred to local self-government units, and at the same time not to be transferred to a certain additional part of the funds. There were also talks about decentralised functions of hospitals, schools that have been transferred by law since 2001 to district units, i.e. in the areas of self-government. Well, of course, it is the first step in line with EU gains. That law hasn't been changed in five years and it's good. However, an additional step needs to be taken. So further decentralisation and further fiscal discharge. What we will specifically look at, and these are the two items of this law, is the participation of local units in the creation of laws that are important to them. So this is an item that stems from the obligation set out in this proposal of the Charter, and I hope that every law in the future will be passed that way and that there will be no abuse in that part. So one of them fits, the other doesn't fit, on average they don't fit. And for the end, the third and most important system that's been talked about and most of all, perhaps here today is the addition of the financial system of funding and financial resources to units of local and regional self-government. Therefore, the SDP warns of the need for additional fiscal decentralisation. It just has to be done. So the powers have been transferred, but the funds have not been transferred, most of the funds and additional resources need to be given to local and regional self-government units so that they can function better. And I hope that, in this sense and in accordance with that provision, that after the vote in some way and binding this year, the bill will be sent by the government. If not, we will instruct him from the SDP on a new tax system, i.e. financing units of local administration and self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8807	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8808	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said incorrectly that the powers had been transferred without the funds being transferred. That's not true. All the powers transferred have been followed by decentralised funds, which is why I am talking about decentralised funds in the decentralisation process. And the other thing is, I'm glad you're turning to the future at last, but don't forget the old one that doesn't remember the mistakes of the past that the same mistakes or worse ones will repeat you in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8809	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8810	And no, I am again, the violation of Rules 209 and 214 of the Rules of Procedure. So I'm saying, you're actually misreading what I said. You said something like that, but not the same. And the difference between the same and the same. Therefore, decentralised funds were made possible, but they did not grow. That's the taste of that debate I had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8811	Final review, State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8812	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. How important local self-government for the Republic of Croatia is also talking about this entire debate today about the actual convention that was made under the “take or leave” system, which cannot be changed from the debate. It makes me personally happy, because as important as local self-government is for the Parliament, it is as important as it is for the Croatian government, and since this development is constantly going, since the adoption of this law is certain because all clubs have confirmed it and it will be one date that will be remembered and I will really not polimise it with any of them. I only take the opportunity to thank all of you for your contribution to the debate, for bringing out your vision and on behalf of the Government, I can say that the development of local self-government in Croatia will go to the limit and that we really want to respect the will of citizens, that we have respected the citizens' opinion when it comes to the model of the electoral system. So we introduced a direct selection of mayors. They all talked about it, but this government proposed it and the law was passed and we will continue to act in accordance with the European Charter. So local self-government, which is what I started out like and ended up with is a very successful project of the Croatian state. All those involved at local, regional or state level have contributed to this. And we have nothing to be ashamed of and we go to develop and strengthen local self-government, and thus the Republic of Croatia, regardless of who has the current majority. I believe that this is the government's obligation, but also all future governments that will assume responsibility for the management of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8813	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8814	Fifth, Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the European Charter on Local Self-Government, P.Z.E. Number 56. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 109 votes for and 3 abstentions are accepted by the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8815	We move to the next point - Report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which delivers the report in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament voted at the 16th session held on 6 October 2005. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Finance and the State Budget, Environmental Protection, Development and Reconstruction, the Economy and European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Who, on behalf of the Proposer, will explain the proposals? State Secretary Ivana Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8816	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a thank you to the given word. We have before us a third report on the use of pre-accession programmes to help the European Union. The first report was actually made, drawn up six months after we got permission to work, so to manage pre-accession programs. The Republic of Croatia opened 3 pre-accession programmes for use, when it was actually granted candidate status for entry into the European Union. These are FARE, ISPA and SAPARD programmes, which are directly used in preparations for joining the European Union, so that once we become a Member State we can make as much use of European funds as possible, but also as an administration we are fully prepared to work within the European Union. Therefore, the report accurately shows the state of each of the pre-accession programmes at the end of 2007. In addition to pre-accession programmes, another programme has been developed that has been available to us since 2000 with the aim of stabilising, so since 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004. These are KARC programmes that were not intended for the accession process, but for the stabilisation process within the Republic of Croatia. In the KARC 2003 programme, 2004 you can notice, and this is also related to all programmes, one multi-annual time scale of the duration of these programmes. So KARC 2003 was agreed, the time of the contract was by 5.6.2006. So, while we are talking about the time when projects were decided in 2003, the agreement lasted until 2006 and the deadline for the end of the contract was 2008, also for KARC 2004, the deadline for the conclusion of the contract is 2009. I am saying this to underline, in fact, the fact that all the projects financed by the European Union programme are still under way before the pre-accession KARCs, as well as the accession ones. So it's a process that lasts. These projects are still being implemented and funded. In the PHARE 2005 pre-accession programme, the deadlines for the contract expired, so they ended on 30.11.2007 and we are recording the same as in the CARC High level of contract. We agreed 97.68% of the funds in KARC in 2003, also above 90% in KARC in 2004 and in PHARE in 2005 87.48% of the funds, which are extremely high bargaining rates, so all above 75% in these European frameworks is considered extremely high bargaining rates. In PHARE 2006, the negotiation process, so the projects have not expired yet, it is ongoing and the deadline for the contract is 30.11.2008. What is very important here is, of course, the third part of the report itself, and these are the criteria and activities that have been taken under these criteria, the questions were, in fact, often about this, the criteria were set in December 2007 at the Supervisory Board for the Monitoring of Pre-accession Programmes in the Republic of Croatia, so this is the same thing that is extremely important to notice that programmes, pre-accession programmes are implemented in a way that individual processes, therefore very closely monitored by the European Commission. Thus, not only our bodies participate in the preparation and programming process, but also the European Commission and together decide on projects that will be financed within a specific programme, so as to monitor and jointly decide in the process of preparation, programming, or planning, the situation is closely monitored during implementation, during the implementation of the projects planned. Accurate monitoring committees have been set up in which members of the European Commission are defined, by our administration, to discuss in detail all projects financed by the programme, whether the objectives set are met and possible problems. So the same thing happened in the PHARE programme, that, in fact, the commission decided to set standards after a detailed review. The basic reasons for the criteria were the refusal rates on the documentation sent by the Finance and Contracting Authority to the control of the delegation. So we operate in a decentralised management system, which means that in each individual process the documentation is sent to the delegation's approval. And the delegation actually checks that the documents are actually made in accordance with the prescribed procedures of the European Union if everything is not made according to the prescribed procedure, then the documents return to completion. The aim, of course, is to make the system as independent as possible and to ensure that the number of any refusals, i.e. the requirement for completion in the documents is as small as possible and that the curve actually falls in time to enable the system to function fully independently without ex post controls by the delegations. Of course, to achieve this quality is important to have a sufficient number of people and a sufficient number of quality and educated people, so that we have, in fact, taken a number of activities to remove the criteria that are based on these conclusions from the Joint Committee on the Control and Implementation of the PHARE Programme to resolve the measurement. So the first criterion was related to the agency, and the Ministry of Finance administration was turned into an agency, and it's employed by a large number of new people, so not only 53 things were set up, but we ourselves have seen by our own analysis of the burden of work that we need more, 63 people, so the criterion was fulfilled and more than what was given. The second criterion was the introduction of quality control, so over its documentation in the agency itself before being sent to the delegation we set up the sector in that part, the same people are employed and all documentation is fully controlled within the agency, which will, of course, contribute precisely to the reduction of those rates of refusal by the delegation. So a series of activities that are being undertaken have already taken place in the time before the criteria themselves, because our primary goal is to establish a system that will work well, that will correct and improve actual processes rather than react only to external incentives and external measures, so that something must be improved. So our goal is primarily to have a capable system which, once we become a member state, will work well and be so good that we will be able to withdraw all the funds that we, as a Member State, will first have to pay into the budget of the European Union, but also more than that, so that we can withdraw any additional development potential from the European Union budget and that is the goal and that is what we know ourselves regardless of any incentives and demands that the European Commission puts before us. So so much for the standards themselves. The activities have been taken. Part of the scale is fulfilled. There is another part of the criterion that is related to the deadlines for the delivery of documents, but these deadlines expire in June, so in September, October, so it's something that will be measured over the next few months, but what has been done so far has been fulfilled. ISPA is the next pre-accession programme and it is, unlike the PHARE, designed to strengthen the administrative capacity of the central state towards infrastructure projects and, in fact, to utility companies, companies owned by units of local and regional self-government or central state. What is really important are the common issues that have arisen, which is why one part of these pre-accession programmes does not work, or most of it does not go to local units, but is very focused at central state level. It is important to say that, in fact, in the planning process, as we are planning our budget, the European Union is also planning which projects will go to for us. So in this planning process, it is actually defined in this pre-accession period that it is important to first strengthen the capacity of the central state so that we can join as soon as possible and as high-quality as possible and become a member of the European Union. Of course, it is not local, not local and regional (regional) units of self-government remain neglected. So one part of the projects from the funds was allocated to them, but in this first period the emphasis was on strengthening the administration at central state level, so that is one of the answers. In ISPA, ISPA is a pre-accession programme of another type, so he prepares us for the use of cohesion funds and three projects are currently funded through ISPA, so they are planned, it is the reconstruction of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik railway line, the water and waste water programme Karlovac and the regional waste management centre Bikarac in Sibenik-Knin County, so these are projects that are also ongoing. It is ISPA 2006. However, projects are, therefore, this time scale, the negotiation is ongoing and the deadline for the completion of the project contract is 31.12.2010, so this is the one time scale that is always seen through these pre-accession programmes. The third SAPARD programme is actually very interesting because it goes, it's the only programme that goes outside the public sector to say so, so it's not meant for the central state units of local and regional (regional) self-government, companies owned or in one part of the PHARE going towards the non-profit sector, but SAPARD is going to very entrepreneurs, meaning farmers, companies dealing with the production of agricultural products. They were therefore able to report for a competition called for co-financing of their projects under the SAPARD programme. So there should, of course, also teach them how to prepare the documentation, how to have all the necessary permits to use the SAPARD program at all. So far we have had three competitions and the SAPARD program we believe will be used as well, but what is most important is to create enough knowledge that when we enter the European Union we can use as much as possible then this agricultural fund that will be available to us and, in general, all the activities that are being undertaken are turned in this direction to create a quality system that will help us compete quality and make more use of structural cohesion funds when we become a member. In parallel with work in these pre-accession programmes, we prepared ourselves during 2007 and for the work and use of the new pre-accession programme introduced by the European Commission in 2007, it then adopted a regulation, it is an IPA programme and I can say it is one of the great successes actually. In April, we were able to send requests for accreditation, so with the permission to work for four IPA components, and now we expect the European Commission's auditors to come in to review the documents we sent, to make sure that the IPA administration is able to work in IPA and that we actually start using these IPA funds as well. Another part of the report refers to irregularities, and that part has also caused some of the issues. It is tied to the very request of the Croatian Parliament, so that the Government of the Republic of Croatia informs of any irregularities within the pre-accession programme system. But what is still very important, one of the criteria was essentially to train the functioning of system management irregularities. So, we are actually one of the rules of the European Commission is that within the pre-accession programme management system they must be able to detect irregularities in order to resolve them and not repeat them again. And just spotting irregularities shows that we have a system that's starting to work, so that can detect an irregularity and then solve it in quality. Technical irregularities occurred at the level of the system itself. Therefore, irregularities which did not affect any standards or financial restrictions, but in this description irregularities can be seen to have been an irregularity in the use of pre-accession programmes on the part of end-users. This is extremely important for you to say, because everyone who uses, who comes into a position to use pre-accession programmes, and that may also mean non-profit organisations, farmers in SAPARD and units of local and regional self-government must do so carefully, in accordance with the prescribed rules, signed contracts, because any deviation can actually lead to a loss of funds on their part, and then they must return to our budget, and then we must return the part that would belong to the European Commission to them. So that's how the system actually works and we're at the very beginning of this first year. So in 2007, the first year of the serious work on pre-accession management showed that this part was also qualified and that we were able to detect and address the irregularities that occurred. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8817	Please. Now we're gonna break up and continue at 15.00 hours with reports from the board that want to and debate the clubs. We continue with the session, committees. Environmental Protection Committee, Chairman of the Committee, Honored Representative Marijana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8819	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. At the 2nd session held on 6 May 2008, the Environment Protection Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2007, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament at the 16th session held on 6 October 2005 by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in an act of 27 March 2008. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this report as an interested working body. In the opening statement of its proposal, it pointed out that through ISPA, 3 individual funding memorandums approved for the next 3 projects are important for environmental protection and improvement. Water and waste water programme in Karlovac, Regional Waste Management Centre and... in Sibenik-Knin County and prepares lists of projects for IPA pre-accession assistance instruments in the environmental protection sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The ISPA programme will finance 62.5% of the total project value, the programme for water and waste water. EUR 22 and a half million. 68% of the total project value Regional Waste Management Centre Vikarac in Sibenik-Knin County i.e. 6 million EUR and 66% of the total project value prepares project lists for IPA pre-accession assistance instruments in the environmental protection sector i.e. 966,306 EUR, 966 000 EUR 306. Based on the signed financing memos until 31 December 2007, it was established for ISPA Vicarac 600 thousand 0.5 EUR, ISPA Karlovac 2 million EUR 250 000 and ISPA IPA environment 193 thousand 261 EURO. The deadline for the completion of these three projects is 31 December 2010. It was also noted that during the reporting period, the Republic of Croatia was preparing to use the IPA programme through the preparation of programming documents and projects and the preparation of accreditation of institutions to manage individual components of the programme. Within component 3, competent authorities have developed an operational programme for environmental protection. Further clarifications on the wastewater treatment plant in Karlovac and the planned use and management of mud resulting from wastewater treatment were requested in the discussion of the Committee on the project "A Water and Waste Water Programme". The need for measuring devices to ensure systematic monitoring of oxygen levels in water is also highlighted. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: A report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2007 is hereby adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8820	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The Development and Reconstruction Committee? For the economy? The chairman of the Committee Mr Dragan Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8821	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs. The Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament at the 6th session held on 6 May 2008 discussed the report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this report as an interested working body. The opening presentation was submitted by the applicant's representative. The debate requested clarifications on irregularities observed in the application of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union. It was pointed out that there was a need for irregularities in the report to be laid down according to the structure of responsibility. The report may give the impression that the system set up by the Republic of Croatia is also responsible for those irregularities for which other participants should be held responsible. For example, in the PHARE 2005 programme, there was a leak of information in Brussels, listed in the report under irregularities. The proposing representative replied that the system was well-organised and that this resulted in the fact that the system itself detected irregularities. Also on those technical irregularities for which responsibility is borne by the system and which have been removed and on any other irregularities resulting from or from competitions or participants, the European Commission has been notified in accordance with the Protocol on time. It has been concluded that irregularities have not affected the funds authorised by the European Commission for certain programmes or for their suspension or reduction. In the course of the debate, it was pointed out that, before the pre-accession programmes were used, it was necessary to do a very demanding job of setting up a system and accreditation of the national and accreditation carried out by the European Commission. It was also pointed out that the structure needed to employ and train a significant number of new employees but that despite the demanding procedure of the Republic of Croatia, most of the countries did the job on much shorter terms. Asked whether the system is ready in the future to be a partner to both users and Brussels of the proposing representatives, she reiterated that the professional training of employees has been extended from the Ministry of Finance to other ministries as well as local and regional administrations and self-government. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, with 6 votes in favour and 2 votes abstention, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following conclusion: a report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8822	Thank you. Committee on Croatian Integration, Vice-President of the House Committee Mr. Representative Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 7th session, the Committee on European Integration discussed the report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union and considered this as an interested working body. This report also noted that the report did not mention any problems that led to the introduction of the criteria. The criteria, the way and the criteria for their implementation are discussed, however, the problems that led to the introduction of the criteria in the first place are not mentioned. It is also stated that the report does not contain projects carried out at the level of units of local self-government and that it is therefore not possible by comparatively analysing the problem of implementing these projects to affect the improvement of the functioning of pre-accession funds systems as a whole. Finally, it was also pointed out that only the report would be more complete if it were to address potential risks or assess potential risks for current projects and to project possible risks for future IPA projects. Following the debate, the European Integration Committee decided unanimously to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8824	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr. Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8825	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected secretary of state. First of all, we, as SDP, welcomed this report because there are a lot of good things in it. We hoped that the report would show more seriously the situation in the funds in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the problem arises here that is not mentioned anywhere in writing means a clue in the report itself, nowhere mentions all the problems our administration faces or the reasons why this famous blockade of the PHARE 2006 funds occurred. To remind the MPs, a report was made in December 2007 on the implementation of the pre-accession European Union programmes which greatly criticised things in our system, cited problems, including sanctions and prescribed certain criteria and measures. In this report other than what we have heard in the presentation of ourselves, there is nothing written about it except the standards for which the maltenes turn out to have fallen from the sky, here are the standards. However, the explanation set out in the report is that the European Commission has set criteria to improve the quality of the documentation and the system of implementation of the PHARE programme. And that's true. But the same criteria were set because there were certain sloppyness and sloppyness that needed to be changed urgently in the judiciary. We have been doing this work in the Republic of Croatia for years and can't have children's diseases happening to us right now. So, the report on the implementation of the programme, the pre-accession European Union programmes, this assembly that we have received has almost the same name as that report in December, but it ignores and does not mention problems and sanctions on the European side, and tax-based projects list maltenes such as trophies without problems attached to the projects themselves. Irregularities referred to in point 8 of this Assembly report have been selected from a whole series of irregularities that can be found in the text of the European Commission. What is problematic is that the observed irregularities are of a technical nature and do not have a high risk in the sense that they point to poor functioning or fraud in the system. The problem lies in this. It's precisely this release of privileged information, even if it was at the level of evaluation if I'm not mistaken, that we can't say that it's a technical irregularity. It's corruption, even at the level of the evaluator. That's what he needs to be able to fight and stop. Let me remind the MPs. The European Commission has made it clear that it believes that the system of pre-accession assistance is critical and that Croatia is located before the European Commission recalls the accreditation for decentralised management of funds, i.e. from December 2007. And it's clear in that same document if the problems continue to apply to the IPA as well. Of course, these problems must now be solved and resolved slowly. The European Commission's arguments were clear, high-level refusals to documents sent by the funding and negotiation unit at the time by the agency, an underdeveloped control system, major backlogs in the bargaining process. We had PHARE 2005 with 50% of the last month's signed contracts, 30% of which last week. And that was a big problem. Furthermore, insufficient training of employees of the unit at the time and now agencies and units for the implementation of projects, failure to respect plans and projections for the delivery of documents to the delegations of the European Commission. Clearly black on white is told and is in the document. Based on this, the approval of all projects by the European Commission delegation has been suspended and this is the famous blockade. So the contests go but the signing of the contract is questionable. What we are now and where the government is located is that it needs to be under emergency until the end of certain evaluation processes to get those funds back or there will be problems. At this point, who is still likely to be able to resolve themselves by summer, if not, there will be a lot of bigger problems. This is what the Republic of Croatia must not allow. And what can we see in the end? For the European Commission, very detailed reports are being made, very detailed reports and reports are being sent to the Assembly with relatively low information. If such matters were discussed in this House, there might be fewer problems. The report must be detailed, objectively address all problems. As you can see, high bargaining rates of over 90% are sometimes not enough for the European Commission. The problems are here, they're here. Here are some examples of projects. Therefore, the European Commission withdrew the tendering components for the 2000 Natura in just one of these problems and maritime security due to the release of privileged information. Furthermore, harmonisation is carrying out judicial practices and support for the judicial administration has come to the conclusion that the European Commission considers the project to be a pre-determined project due to a failure to meet the precondition for the start of the project. We're talking about 4.5 million euros here. Due to delays in the preparation of the tender documentation and the publication of the invitation to tender, we can generally say that "suffering" projects worth almost 100 million kuna. For the Roma support project, it is clear that there is a possibility of cancelling the project more than 15 million kuna. For PHARE 2005 and 2006 In its table of failure to implement, the European Commission has put projects of almost 180 million kunas on the table, with a heavy but large majority of thanks to God's easier failures. So, that's controversial. These are controversial numbers, not whether we used something 90 or 100%. We simply had to have a table in Parliament with clearly mentioned projects and say this is a project, these are the goals, these are the problems we are facing. This is how we solve them. By that date, we'll solve them. I think this Parliament and the public deserve one such document. As far as PHARE 2006 is concerned, if I am not mistaken, the cross-border cooperation between Slovenia-Croatia-Hungarian Republic has already been agreed on by 20 projects and for Croatia-Italy is an ongoing settlement, but according to my information, there has been a problem because of the rejection of the evaluation, so there is a chance to lose 3 million. I would ask the answer to that question because cross-border cooperation is not in the blockade system, so it would be really funny if we lost that money. Although ultimately, Minister Jandrokovic himself was proud of how the criteria are being resolved quickly and how the system improves the PHARE in 2006 a grand scheme for entrepreneurs and civil society shows us that there will again be problems with contracting projects at the last minute, because if the competition was called in February the deadline was April, the evaluation of October. We're going to sign the contracts again last week, and we could still have potential problems. That can't happen. Nor can it happen, here's a personal experience from one... I have a project to wait eight months after approval of the project for signing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When all technical problems with the project were solved for the first month. That can't happen. Because colleagues and colleagues, until all the problems with PAR are solved, are they going to go into credit for... , no matter what the whole accreditation package has already been sent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First we need to solve the issue with the PAR program. As for ISPA, reports from the 2007 meeting in December clearly read that the contract rate for ISPA is 0.49%. ISPA are major projects, large strategic projects are funded worth more than 5m euros, they mostly stem from... But it is already visible that by 2010, you do not have to wait to see that part of the money is at risk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's the same thing in ISPA about big construction works that are subject to some other factors, like weather opportunities. Is there going to be any loss since 2010 that's one of the questions I still have? The second question, related to ISPA, is how much of the contract has been signed so far. Third, whether a project base has been developed, which were criteria and how it will be done in the future. It's with ISPA. As far as SAPARD is concerned, we also have a few questions. First of all, we ask that the report include the final users of the SAPARD projects. Secondly, we are interested in how the agreed amount of investment is only 8.8m euros and what happened to the third measure from the SAPARD. That's the same question. And now there's an interesting criticism. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia received millions of amounts as technical support through various projects. I took part in the education that the people of the ministry spoke to our peasants from SAPARD, and when the villagers asked them if you would help us write projects, the answer was go to a private consulting house. If the government received millions of euros for technical support, it is clear that it can give our peasants the same support so that the job can be done as well as possible. For the IPA, it is commendable, first of all, that the MPs have received this description. I said it, we're glad that the list of components came and that they cover, except in this, the component report, 3, 4, but there's really nothing there. Annex 4 shows that IPA is ambitiously programmed and indeed some state institutions have taken the job very seriously. We're interested, as is the ISP issue for component three traffic. By which criteria it is determined that the railways and these waterways will be renovated and modernised. Within regional competitiveness, we resent too few grants, especially for entrepreneurs who should be the most involved in priority 2 strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Namely, I don't know if you know it, but within the framework of the PAR programme, the pilot of the grand export scheme is scheduled. Well, now there's a question of what kind of pilot it is if you don't see a sequel in IPA. Or through the pilot we're doing topics for something that we know in advance won't be. So that's the same open question. Furthermore, the same thing in annex four is interesting to see certain levels of readiness of our institutions. In this place the Minister of Science when we were doing the budget talked about increasing the budget for the adult education agency and especially... here talking about it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to work on the European Union as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you take a closer look at the agency, there's absolutely no mention of it. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem like he can do the job well. Of the other problems, I certainly cite what has been said so far, to introduce the success of local self-government units in withdrawing funds, which is mostly about cross-border cooperation, a little CARDS, a little bit of Far. Because I think that Parliament and the public absolutely need to know where this job is doing well, where a little bit worse, where it squeaks to help the state. We know that there are not too many problems with the counties that are along the Slovenian border, withdrawing funds through border cooperation. But let's say I am personally interested in increasing the amount in Dalmatia, especially because Dalmatia has a border with both Italy and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it can make maximum profit, if that's what we're going to say. The problem that arises is the ignorance of our local politicians as well as of what EU projects are. In Split-Dalmatia County, in Karlovac County simply something that should not be happening at this time, which is that responsible people are mixing us with what is the EU project and what the project states in... So in Split-Dalmatia, there was a statement that there are 70 EU projects, in Karlovac that there are 40 EU projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There isn't. ... They're so let's say wish list. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At one point, such a desire from the ROP as a project can be converted into an EU project, but it needs to be further educated, and we need our people to know that job. ... I'll do that job, as I've done for all the other county. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Also mentioned in the report is TMPUS, I pray in the list of projects, which are TMPUS projects the same, it was mostly the Bologna Process, with Bologna the problem exists and we would love to have it. And at the end of the point. Although we welcome the report. For the SDP Club, there are certain shortcomings, first of all a list of problems, risks, projects by units of local self-government, detailed description of projects with problems useful to the Republic of Croatia, and an assessment of the readiness of our institutions. The main and greatest regret is first and foremost that everything that is good is in this report and it is commendable, so it must be. But the government can't send us to the Parliament a report that completely ignores all the facts, especially those that talk about big problems and failures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8826	Thank you. One rectification of an incorrect allegation. Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, here's a colleague in his presentation who said a series of inaccuracies and a series of claims that are at least weekly unless they're incorrect. I'll fix only one, because I personally worked at the SAPARD agency, so I was headed by that agency in the previous term. That's when a colleague said that we've been sending parties on the ground, so the users of the SAPARD program to report to private consulting companies. I would remind my colleague that we have the entire infrastructure of state institutions working to help entrepreneurs develop investment embodies and other similar documents. It means from the entrepreneurship centres in the county, from the agricultural advisory service, from the Office of State Administration. So no one in front of the agency, nor the Ministry of Agriculture, or the administrative directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture, who was in charge of the SAPARD has ever referred our farmers exclusively to private consultants. That's absolutely not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8828	For the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8829	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After a very concrete and constitutive presentation of fellow Mondekar I have a need to go back a little in history when we talk about the report. And that's October 6, 2005. The Croatian Parliament discussed the Law on Confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of the National Fund between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission. In the light of this law offered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Assembly, among other things as the basic objectives to be achieved by its adoption or adoption, it was said that an efficient and transparent system of financial management of the European Union's pre-accession programmes would be established in line with the requirements of the European Union, with particular emphasis on the transparency of the entire system. In the debate on this document, the Croatian National Party proposed, the Government's representative accepted and the Parliament confirmed the conclusion that every 6 months the Government of the Republic of Croatia would submit to the Assembly a report on notified projects, agreed projects, appropriations, and any illegalities or failures in the use of pre-accession programmes of the European Union. The first concrete report was submitted to the Parliament only in 2007, in April of the month, after 17 months of the obligation to report by the Government, and only after the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the area of the use of pre-accession programmes of the European Union at the request of representatives of the Croatian People's Party and the SDP. Today, after one year of the interpretation of the first report, we have finally been given the opportunity to discuss the second report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union. The Croatian People's Party club stresses that today we are discussing a second report, and we should have discussed the fifth. So, I underline once again, we are not discussing the fifth but the second report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union. At a meeting held in December 2007, the European Commission concluded that the pre-accession assistance implementation system is at a critical stage, i.e. before the European Commission recalls the accreditation it has given for a decentralised implementation system in Croatia. What exactly happened? In February 2006, the European Commission apparently slightly naively concluded that the Croatian administration was able to take over the management of pre-accession programmes itself, and left us with the implementation of competitions, contract conclusion, implementation and payment of the project while it continued to maintain control of the whole process. Almost immediately, there were problems with the transparency of the whole process. In a parliamentary debate on the first report a year ago, we heard that Croatia was able to use only 32% of the funds from the currently frozen PHARE programme, which is as low as 25% of Romania's weakest who used 57%, while Hungary's most successful realised for us the space 73% of the European Union's offered funds. Unfortunately, 32% looks great compared to the fascinating data that we have used only 0.49% of the funds under the same programme so far, which is really miserable. With its assessment of the inability of the Croatian authorities to manage pre-accession funds, the European Commission is based on a high rate of refusal on documents sent by the central funding unit to the European Commission for control by the European Union delegation. The Commission concluded that the Croatian side is relying on a European check rather than relying on the development of its own capabilities. And this is the result of an underdeveloped control system, which is in December 2007. The European Commission has made it very clear, and this report today shows from Chapter three one, however, in point three, one of the criteria laid down and the activities undertaken. Europe of blame and high time gaps in the contract, i.e. a high percentage of the contract, is signed just before the deadlines expire. Furthermore, it resents non-compliance with plans and projections, the delivery of documents, which leaves the Croatian side with a loss of credibility. The European Commission has also frozen Croatia 130m euros from the PHARE programme and reduced our funds for the pre-accession IPA fund by 5m euros. The European Commission's report on Croatia's progress last year made it clear: Croatia showed significant weaknesses in implementing EU assistance in a decentralised implementation system that requires urgent attention. Translated from the make-up diplomatic language of European bureaucrats, this means the unhappiness, incompetence and intricacy of the Croatian administration in the management of pre-accession European Union funds. Data on the use of pre-accession funds are an extremely good indicator of the capacity of the government, as the European Union does not give money to anyone but gives it to strictly specific purposes for projects that must satisfy the quality and pass through a very complex adoption procedure. The European Commission has shown the first signs of dissatisfaction with our way of managing these funds already in that report in November of last year, in order to culminated in the freezing of 130m euros from the PHARE programme and a 5 million reduction through the IPA Fund. For these already lost 5 million euros, e.g. It could've been built cca. 6 new schools for 300 students with a sports hall, and for 750m euros which, due to incompetence, the irresponsibleness of Sanader's government could lose, end Podravska for example. Podravska fast road, fast road for Krapina, and all water systems, sewerage, purification in Varazdinska, Međimurje and Krapina-Zagorje County. Financial loss isn't the only one that could come out of these problems. It is possible that several negotiating chapters may not be closed in negotiations with the European Union, and since the use of the pre-accession fund is also the preparation for the use of the European Union structural funds that Croatia would use after entering the European Union, and which offer up to ten times as much funding, members of the European Commission rightly wonder how we will dispose of so much resources when we are unable to use the one offered now. And that's where we get the key problems. The state administration just didn't... for the growing needs of the accession process to the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of sitting in those positions with motivated and educated people, there has been a constant drain of the best personnel in the private sector for years. The reason for this is, on the one hand, too low wages, but on the other hand, a negative human policy that usually pushes the obedient, but not the best. This is true for both the Ministry of Finance and the rest of the state administration with a special emphasis on the former European Integration Ministry, which was later drowned in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was actually supposed to be a crucible for state administration personnel to join the European Union. The tragic fact is that this problem is not seen in the Ban Courts, but must be suggested... diplomats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another key problem is the centralised of the state administration. Namely, the fact and from the report is visible that only the full use of the program... /The speaker is not understood. and unfortunately, this programme accounts for only 3% of the total resources, available from a total of EUR 250 million, to which units of local and regional self-government were entitled by government decision. And there is, the question arises why the government has no confidence in the capacity of municipalities and cities and counties and why the government did not allow more than 3% participation and in any case approximately to the level of their tax capacity. If, for example, different counties are willing to write projects that are granted directly to them in Brussels, why is it impossible for us to make the same successful, we can run them, but I am speaking successfully across the Croatian state? The fact itself suggests that there are capacities in this country, but centralisation by the central government prevents the opening of space for creativity and the ability of personnel this country has. Our assessment of the Croatian government's ability to manage pre-accession funds speaks and recent, and we have had opportunities to read in the press, a statement by the ruling member of the ruling coalition in continuity for the fifth year, which is that we are unserious, irresponsible and sloppy in organising the use of pre-accession funds. Secondly, he argues there is a political-based allocation, saying that funds go to some municipalities that do not have the necessary infrastructure to implement the project at all. Furthermore, he claims that there is centralised in communication only with similar and obedient ones. We expected that in this government report, there would be at least one penitentiary sentence in this government report or announcement that someone would answer, to change significantly, but there is no letter again. The prime minister tells us that the government will now enter the fifth gear, however, forgets that from the reverse we are in to get to the fifth, we must go through the first, second, third and fourth. The government continues to disregard Parliament's decision on six months of reporting on the use of pre-accession programmes of the European Union, and thus also brings the citizens of the Republic of Croatia into the situation of very important matters, and this is about significant means in the function of adapting entry into the European Union and preparing for the use of structural funds after entering the European Union, Parliament learns in the rule from newspapers and other media. Because of this, the Croatian People's Party Club will not support the report on the use of pre-accession programmes of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8830	Thank you. Two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8831	Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of a fellow representative who spoke on behalf of the HNS Club. He said that in a report by the European Commission, there is something that is actually said in one of these makeup diplomatic languages that will simplify and that is related to our administrative capacities. That it's hateful, that it's incompetence and so on. Namely, I want to fix it, deny it, and do it with numbers. First of all, the use of the CARDS project is over 95%. That the use of PHARE projects is 87.5% and that the use of ISPA projects is 100%. According to the European Union's criteria, more than 70% is already considered to be fine. And the second thing that absolutely deprives you is that, as a state, we are among all these transition countries that today are the fastest members of the European Union to do the job of accreditation of that system that is in charge of pre-accession funds. Which means we've been making the quickest withdrawals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8832	And another correction by Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8833	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I have to react to an incorrect claim that's been made here that in the state administration, I'd add that we don't need to use such things for day-to-day political purposes to work in a state administration by unprofessional and uneducated people. I don't think we should, like, go out of this booth because I personally worked in that administration and I know how educated they are and how professional these people are. And counterpart Koračević should know that there are laws that regulate, meaning that speak and define the criteria that must be met by the person coming to work in the state administration. And I would also remind my colleague that in 2004, when I came to the Ministry of Agriculture, all those workers who were then found at the Ministry of Agriculture and stayed working because they were also professional in 2001, just as they were professional in 2004. I don't think these things from this, this High House and these messages should come out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8834	IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8835	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the ministry, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. In this report on the use of pre-accession programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2007, it is literally said that the use of funds is measured by the percentage of agreed projects, their implementation and payments made within the deadlines provided. By the end of 2007, the deadlines for contracting projects for CARDS programmes 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and PHARE 2005 and the Republic of Croatia recorded a high percentage of the execution of contracted persons. So first the CARDS in 2001, even 96.4%, great. CARDS 2002. 96.1%. CARDS 2003. 97.7%. Unlike the previous two here, this annual programme has been fully transferred to Croatian state bodies in the financial management segment. CARDS 2004 is 94.6%. Implementation fully transferred to Croatian state bodies. PHARE Programme 2005 87.48% and so on. Then where's the problem? There's a problem where my predecessors talked about when programs are sort of coming down if I can say it to a local level and when that local level of people who work there just don't know how to prepare a program, and that means the inability to withdraw funds. For example, page 18 here lists a whole series of examples that I'm not wasting my time right now. From 2007 to 2011, the European Union is scheduled to monitor the Republic of Croatia with EUR 749 million. Now I clearly hope that this money will be somehow evenly distributed or I don't know whether or not I know it in some other way directed towards the county or that there will be some priorities here in this House to spend no small money. What the Parliament should certainly know is who is competing with these funds in Croatia. Not just what this report is talking about, it's getting the means to make it happen. So in one word, I think we have to make sure that we don't prefer anyone in this country, but we don't marginalize either. When we talk about this 750 million euros. It's big money. He's not to be rejected. That's something to be appreciated. That's about five and a half billion kunas in some kuna equivalent. This is, for example, about 5% of the Croatian budget that the Republic of Croatia will budget in the period 2007/2011. withdraw from European funds. These 5.5 billion kunas are about as much money as Croatian defenders spend in one year through the Ministry of Defence and Generation Solidarity. On the other hand, clearly, I would never rely too much on the European Union's resources. We should rely first and foremost on ourselves and, as I said this morning, when we had a debate about this European Charter and our beaks. But let's also be realistic. Also, let's not look for the impossible. This just isn't '68. A year. Yes, and we did in 2008 but in that period until '68. Or since '68. It's been a long time. Croatia is currently and should be warned of this by a small, poor country, the overindebted country. Croatia is a country that is dependent on energy. I welcome today's statement by Prime Minister Sanader that he will do something by the end of the week with the price of energy. Out of 5 billion I don't know cubic meters of oil we're importing 4 billion. Of the 3 billion cubic metres of gas, we import a billion meters of this energy. We are facing Western markets and clearly that European, that Croatia is Europe in some way an exit. I won't say salvation, but maybe even that term if I used it wouldn't be wrong. But we will not experience that salvation tomorrow, nor when we enter the European Union, but only when we enter the monetary union. Why? Because Croatia currently has an external debt of about 34 billion euros, it means today. By the end of the term of office of this government, our external spirit will be 50 billion euros. That's the equivalent of over 70 billion dollars. And therefore, if we do not want to play with our own destiny we will have to secure foreign exchanges, and without monetary union it will be almost impossible for Croatia. So these pre-accession funds should in some ways be interpreted as how to do business, and I would dare say with the European Union as well. So these pre-accession funds are one new philosophy, one new approach to money was that it's a European, state, the next day from any other local or state unit. It is simply not the Balkans anymore, but the more money he withdraws from the European Union, the more he will adapt to these European rules of conduct. As part of the CARDS programme for the period 2001-2004 Croatia was granted 113 262m-euro projects. As part of the PHAR programme for the period 2005-2006 Croatia has been approved 43 projects worth 167m euros. The initial allocation for 2005 of 80m euros has increased by an additional 7m euros. As part of the ISPA 2005-2006 programme Croatia has been granted 60m euros. As part of the SAPARD programme only 2006 25m euros were granted to Croatia and not to list them all. Last year, the first round, the competition, etc. was completed. What I want to especially highlight is all these funds are grants. So someone in the Western European countries is working to secure those funds that will be allocated to third countries entering or preparing to enter the European Union through Brussels, and where we who receive this money should be grateful to them. What should the Republic of Croatia compete for? You should compete for everything. But it is also necessary to create on the one hand that I dare say the country's mood that every project is largely ecologically unquestioned by individual NGOs. For example, for Kaštjun dump site near Pula it is certain that the County of Istria can withdraw direct, significant funds from Brussels. But those who oppose him, these NGOs, when they're opposed to at least saying where they should go with that pulse dump in Istria. They're for example, I'm speaking now in mind, against golf when the County of Istria proposes to read the IDS. But when that's proposed by their financier Plinio Kukor from TDR, then they're for and then it's no less than a good project. What am I saying? So, along with this municipal discrepancy that is present across the Republic of Croatia, there is no exception from county to county with one proverbial power that the disinterest of the state spoken of by my predecessors. So without creating a climate on the ground, part of the money will never be withdrawn from these 750 million euros or 749.8 etc. It's a lot of money, and we really can't have someone willing to give something for nothing, and by quotes, don't literally take me for a word, and then we don't take it and use it for our own good. So we need to speed up the procedure. There is a need to help local self-government, but there is also a need to prevent obstruction, whether it is an obstruction that can sometimes occur in the ministry, in these parliamentary benches, in the field, I don't know among NGOs, etc. But what's the point. It is certainly not the European Union's fault for our troubles. We must clearly help ourselves, and if any help comes from the side, it is clear that she is welcome. But we can't expect a third person to solve all our problems. We must, clearly in this overindebted Croatia set priorities, it must be hospitals, energy facilities, not handball stadiums, it must be dumps, roads, not some football volcanoes on Kaiser or in Maksimir, it should be a recovery of shipbuilding, not football clubs, it should mean encouraging a little entrepreneurship, not just large exporters etc., etc. And another detail. When I look at the County of Istria's budget for this year 2008. The Istrian County has withdrawn more money from Brussels than from the state budget. It is also a shame, not for the County of Istria, how much to this relationship between the political Zagreb and the County of Istria. I'll take it, but I won't return anything. This must change, but clearly we will not achieve this either by these European means, this will not be achieved by the charter, but by real decentralisation and direct choice. Who? Not the mayor, the mayor and the mayor, but the representative. But for the end, one thing's for sure. All countries that are in 2004, 10 of which are from our neighbouring Slovenia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, etc. down from Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland have entered the European Union, all these countries have profited and Croatia will profit by entering the European Union, except that we will take a detour from 6 years of age compared to them to the European Union. True, they didn't have a war, we had this war tragedy, but it's also true that we are 1990s ahead of those countries, but I dare say maybe 20 years, and as it stands, maybe in 4 years one Czech Republic will be 20 years ahead of the Republic of Croatia. As a candidate country, I believe that we will soon become a country of accession and that in 2010, indeed, we will be in the European Union and then, in some ways, this political generation will end with that act. Clearly, the benefits of the European Union are great, but for me, the greatest advantage of the European Union is the monetary union. Why? To simply free themselves from this one fear of a currency or I don't know what I'm going to call it, a financial breakdown. Finally, just one last sentence, the funds of these pre-accession funds, PHARE, ISPA, SAPARD, are grants, meaning, as I said somewhere in Western Europe, it is not important now in Poland, the Czech Republic or Hungary to work in order to accumulate in this joint under the quotes of the "European Brussels cash register" funds and to target its future members, and one of them is the European Union. We need to know, on the one hand, how to appreciate it, and on the other hand, we must also know how to withdraw those funds, and not that it happens to us that we are not able to bring money into the country from year to year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8836	One correction. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8837	Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm sorry that my colleague Kai's insistently conveys data relating to the return of funds, as he likes to say from the state budget in Istria. So here today he said that Istria received more funding from Brussels than from the state budget. That's not true. Obviously you avoid mentioning that the state budget finances all of those state services such as health care, such as education, such as courts, so one huge amount of funds paid daily in Istria and of which also people in Istria live. Thus, it is really unnecessary to speak in such a way. I am pleased that Istria is using various projects, as it has also withdrawn funds from Brussels, but it is completely inappropriate to compare the amounts that come from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and what you get from Brussels. I don't think that just doesn't stand, it's completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8838	For the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8839	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this report, but also strongly supports all government efforts in all pre-accession funds activities, not only because using these European funds gives us significant financial resources from the EU budget, but what is more important, these funds are spent on structural reforms and on adapting our system to the European Union system. And then when we talk about SAPARD and IPA, which are focused on the development and structural adjustment of agriculture, entrepreneurship in general or when we talk about KARC and PHARE, so the programmes that reform public administration and strengthen our administrative capacities. In particular, the importance of the programme that is yet to come should be highlighted, it is the IPA programme that will replace the programmes that have already been implemented successfully, and the European Commission's accreditation is expected in October. In fact, it is a completely new programme at European Union level, and what is particularly important in it is that in one segment, therefore in regional competitiveness, it is aimed directly at the development of entrepreneurship. In order to use these resources, we must show that we have absorption capacities and that our state administration is both organisational and humanely capable and willing to withdraw those funds. A great deal of work has been set today after several years of implementation of the pre-accession fund programme, if we are using data from this report, we can reasonably conclude that the state administration has shown maturity, efficiency and that we have created assumptions for the use of pre-accession funds much better and more efficiently than all transition countries that have passed these processes and which are now members of the European Union. So there's no reason for defetism, and there's no reason for us to put ourselves through any complexes. It is clear for the public that the money of pre-accession funds of the European Union is not offered, it does not lie somewhere in the account, so it should just be picked up, just the opposite. The money that the European Union has planned in its budget for the Republic of Croatia can be withdrawn exclusively through strictly prescribed and accredited procedures and protocols for which only a few instructions, several pages, existing civil apparatus is not sufficient. There is a need for very demanding paperwork, for procedures, for well-trained experts, for system information, for control mechanisms, for new spaces, for new employees, for the creation of complete logistics that goes primarily through national accreditation, and then for the accreditation of the European Union. So it's a big job, it doesn't go overnight, and it needs to be seen as a process. Also, if we compare ourselves with other countries, what I said, we have done this job and accreditation at national level and accreditation by the European Commission as soon as possible. We think that the confirmation of the work that has been done for pre-accession funds is that, first of all, one fact since 2003, when the CARDS for 2003 and 2004, that we have received complete management of these projects, that from the delegation of the European Union and the Commission in the Republic of Croatia, the management of the project has passed on to the Republic of Croatia and that it was in some way the first trust and proof of our absorption power and the ability of our administration. The second contribution to this finding is the data from Tables I and II which I have already said something about correcting the incorrect allegations, so that these projects and CARDS and PHARE and ISPA are realised with a 90%-100% percentage and that we expect good results in this third competition regarding SAPARD, which also speaks of absorption power because according to the European Union criteria, we have said that everything that is over 70% is a really good result. The absorption power is extremely important for Chapter 22 – Regional development and for the conclusion of negotiations on which the European Union funds will be targeted and this is in some way all and a test for us and, in some ways, the first half of the funds where we prove ourselves a candidate country, we prove our ability, we prove our credibility. Also as a confirmation of system and organisation systems and capabilities of the system should be highlighted and irregularities. The system we have just established has detected errors, detected irregularities and they have been sent to the European Commission, the European Commission is now on the move. As far as state administration is concerned, it is only a matter of technical error while other errors are related to participants in the process, so whether they are competitors related to competitions or any other participants. Also related to irregularities observed should be made clear that they did not question neither the implementation of the programme nor the means to be determined, as much as possible by finding an irregularity of the system that we have set up, so it confirms its credibility. However, to see more clearly from the listed irregularities, it would be good in the next report to deal with the structure and clearly separate what is the error of the administration and what are irregularities related to all the other participants of the competition. The procedures and tendering system through which entities are running for funds, particularly through SAPARD and/or IPA, which will come, where economic operators and entrepreneurs are in play above all, at this stage are extremely important, they train the system. So they train all those participants in the process and potential users. It is therefore certain that most of these economic operators are not used to such complicated procedures, which require extensive documentation in which control mechanisms are very precise. It is therefore necessary to adopt the standards of the European Union and prepare for a period when, solely on our preparation, our ability depends on how much we will be a member, as an equal member of the European Union, to withdraw funds from cohesion and structural funds. Because it is one thing now when money is received as aid, when it is approved through these programmes, and another is the situation where Croatia will compete as an equal member with other members of the European Union over the common budget, so how much funding will then be withdrawn from cohesion and structural funds. Because then some of these funds will be paid from the Republic of Croatia, so whether the VAT title, whether from the title of customs, therefore it is very important for us to train the system, to be credible, trained and when more significant funds are in play so that we can withdraw them and return them to the Croatian economy and to Croatian infrastructure projects. So now we train and train a system for much stronger games when there will be more resources and when it will not be just help but means competing with other countries. We have often had a series of incentive programmes over the past 17 years that we have encouraged entrepreneurship, which we have encouraged agriculture or other economic branches, but time has shown that very often independent and of inspection controls we could not purposely control the purpose of spending these funds. But here the situation is completely different. So money is obtained through strictly prescribed procedures and control mechanisms, it is obtained only after the implementation of the projects and it is good that our businessmen get used to and learn from such a system. In fact, we had to do with those first competitions, the SAPARD was not a big response, but it is expected in this third round to spend most of the funds anyway. In Croatian agriculture, however, there are more and more real entrepreneurs who know that without the adoption and standards in technology and standards in veterinary and health conditions, and finally understand that they will not be competitive on this integrated market of the European Union and that they simply have to adapt and that they have to adopt those standards. Therefore, these programmes should be an important contribution to structural reforms and adjustments on the one hand by the state administration, and on the other hand by economic operators. The Croatian Democratic Community club holds that both the government and the state administration have done a significant job. All of us who have had the opportunity to participate in this, who have held negotiations with the Commission and set up the system, know that there is a huge effort behind it and that because of all the political processes in the European Union and the historic moment in which the Republic of Croatia is a candidate for membership, we had to work much faster and much better than the other countries that are members of the European Union today. It is an additional effort but it is also an additional motivation and therefore we give full support to the government and to all state bodies headed by the Ministry of Finance to successfully bring this job to an end and to create best assumptions in order to withdraw as much funds from future cohesion and structural funds as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8840	Thank you. It's Mrs. Mariana Petir's turn on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8841	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The HSS Club will support this 2007 report on the use of funds from pre-accession funds, with, of course, us as HSS particularly interested in the SAPARD area, which is an instrument for financial assistance to agriculture and rural development and in order to allow the candidate country to prepare for the use of common agricultural policy funds after full entry into EU membership. The programme itself was launched in 2000 and, apart from primary investments in agriculture and rural infrastructure, it aims to address structural adjustments in these sectors, to build a competitive and efficient sector of agriculture and food processing, to create new jobs and revenues in the least developed regions, to strengthen sustainable development in rural areas, and to improve the quality of life of the rural population. The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for the management of the programme. As part of the ministry itself, the functions of the preparation of the National Rural Development Plan are separate, setting out the measures to be financed by the SAPARD Programme and the implementation of the SAPARD Programme itself. In the SAPARD plan, the Ministry of Agriculture identified two key measures within which SAPARD funding will be allowed, end-users of SAPARD funds differ depending on the measures adopted by the ministry as a priority to which the funds under the programme will be targeted. These two measures include investment in agricultural holdings and the processing and marketing of agricultural and fishery products. To the first extent, investments in agricultural holdings are financed by each potential user who must invest in the 50% own resources project while the other 50% of the total investment is co-financed from the SAPARD but no more than 2.5 million kuna per user. The second measure of processing and marketing of agricultural and fishery products as users may be reported by natural and legal persons registered for a particular activity, shall be financed by any potential beneficiary of the funds which must invest 50% of their own resources while the SAPARD co-finances 50% of the total investment and no more than 10 million per user. We in the HSS have often discussed the implementation of this programme with agricultural family economies on the ground and with farmers' associations and we have had opportunities to meet with representatives of the Polish government and their embassy as well as consultants who led the negotiations there. Unlike Croatia, Poland has managed to fight for six measures, and in these six measures, significant measures and acquisitions of a mechanism that does not necessarily have to be new but can also be used, and in these negotiations the Polish government has helped many of the rural associations and pressures that they have been doing. In view of the fact that here, through information coming from the field and through the very structure of spending, it is evident that mostly family farms have or have not appeared in the competition of the SAPARD programme, either in the first round or in the second round, and now the third competition has been called or should have been closed as it shows and points us to a serious problem. Therefore, it means that exclusively companies or natural persons are sufficiently capacitated to prepare for such a complicated procedure at all. As counterpart Kovacevic mentioned, you should really fill out all the necessary applications and be careful not to make mistakes but also invest a lot of money if you are unable to fill out that application yourself to do so to someone else. Information is coming on the ground from the agricultural family economies that consulting companies are asking from 3 to 5 000 euros to help them meet these applications. I think it is clear to everyone in this Chamber and also to the resolution ministry and here to colleagues from the Ministry of Finance that the average family economy in the Republic of Croatia that deals with agriculture does not have 3 to 5 000 euros to pay for such an application, which is therefore not certain whether it will finally be accepted. As a result, we from HSS certainly appeal to a competent SAPARD agency but also to the ministries involved in this process of doing business and cooperation with pre-accession funds to really find one model to help meet these applications and simply to make the entire agricultural family economies much simpler, so that it is not this complicated because we are afraid that both in this third round or in some new round, or in some new IPA competition, we will not be able to be satisfied again because we will not withdraw all the funds that are intended for Croatia. Under the SAPARD programme, the Republic of Croatia is intended for 24.7m euros, which is not insignificant money. Two tenders have so far received 97 applications from which 29 projects have been approved or agreed. The total amount of investment in approved projects is 28.4m euros while the agreed amount of EU support is 8.89m euros and of which national co-financing is 2.96m euros. With this dynamic, if this continues, we will certainly not be able to be satisfied and it is up to all of us to take adequate steps to make this slow and inadequate use of resources from the SAPARD in some way change. There have been words here that certain irregularities have been observed and that is correct but the Ministry of Agriculture has reacted and submitted all the necessary reports and there is no responsibility whatsoever. However, the programmes which are listed here or the measures for which Croatia can negotiate programmes within the SAPARD itself certainly have their support within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture adopted by this Croatian Parliament. For example, for rural development is the first time a substantial amount of funds has been allocated and that is 450 million kuna and the budget itself has increased by 25%, i.e. 4.5 billion kuna, and if these include funds related to rural infrastructure and come from other ministries, for example, when it comes to social infrastructure coming from the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of the Sea, the infrastructure is then more than 6 billion kuna that we have provided for investment in Croatian villages. However, it would certainly be a shame not to withdraw this 25m-euro fund from the SAPARD programme, because I think there are very capable people in Croatia who can help prepare applications and those applications that will be accepted and that will be supported by the European Union. In any case, the HSS stands for the next. We think that these applications should check whether the app deals with the production and processing of food and export of these products or with imports. We find it inadmissible to lend, assist and grant grants from either the SAPARD programme, or from the resolution ministry, either from the HBOR for those entrepreneurs who instead of becoming exporters have become the largest importers in the Republic of Croatia. I must mention that last year, more than $2 billion of food has been tied in the Republic of Croatia, which we believe is terrible and that such a situation should certainly not be allowed this year. In that sense, of course, only the Ministry of Agriculture is powerless. It must also have support from other ministries, but also from banks and institutions that in any way participate financially in the support of the production of agricultural products or any treatment within the agricultural sector. It's bad if loans and grants are given to those who end up importing agricultural products, while our farmers and peasants have no one to sell them to. In this sense, the HSS urges from this place to re-examine the financial means especially when it comes to applicants and large enterprises that do not contribute to the placement of Croatian agricultural products on the domestic and foreign market, but simply destroying the Croatian village and Croatian agricultural production. I think that this report that we have today and this experience about which the practice on the ground tells us we need to serve as an example that for the programmes that we will negotiate and apply in the future do not repeat the same mistakes that have been happening so far and, of course, as representatives of the HSS we offer any assistance in that part, because we are aware that for the survival of Croatian villages, agricultural family economies should make greater efforts. We're in that part ready and helpful. It is not enough to invest only financial resources in the form of incentives. It is necessary to create different living conditions in the country, but it is also necessary to invest in the education of agricultural producers who need to obtain certificates, which will be able to enter the workbook and where we will create a critical mass of agricultural producers that will be competitive on the European market. Of course, in this regard, the HSS Club supports this report, noting that everything seen as a deficiency and as a major problem is corrected in the next phase and in the SAPARD programme so that the funds do not remain unused, but also in other programmes that Croatia will negotiate and apply for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8842	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go. I'm sorry, at 16,13, it's past ten minutes' notice time. Here you go, Mr. Slash.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8843	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I would refer to pre-accession funds in Osijek-Baranja County, so I would say that in the past 10 months in Osijek-Baranja County and Osijek-Baranja County has approved 9 projects for the European Union. In fact, two years ago, we founded the Regional Development Agency of Slavonia and Baranja, provided an office in Brussels. We also provided contact and consulting house that helps us in exceptional ways, and this was discussed by several speakers who participated in the debate. Therefore, it is necessary for pre-accession funds and to assist extremely demanding documentation. Therefore, we can be critical and should be critical of this report as well. Of course, there were gaps and flaws and mistakes. But it seems to me, and I'm saying it from the experience that we had at the local level, at the county level, that it's inevitable. Because when you enter a business like this, you have no experience and what is said is “to learn walking. ” Therefore, when it comes to freezing 130m euros of course in the PHAR project or 5m euros less in IPA, of course it is not good. However, it is the Czech or the account that is paid on experience. So also in Osijek-Baranja County, which projects we participated in, for example, for the CARDS project for an apple project from pre-accession funds, there were 145 thousand euros for cross-border tourism of 97,000 euros and 107,000 euros in energy. Recently, we received 960,000 euros from the PHAR project. He received an entrepreneurial incubator "Bios" in the city of Osijek or Osijek-Baranja County or from SAPARD for the construction of a farm and for these calves and heroes in 3 projects that received a total amount of 620000 euros or from a CEI INTEREG project totaling 60,000 euros. So the total value we have withdrawn from the pre-accession European Union funds in the last 10 months in Osijek-Baranja County is 2m euros. Of course, I must stress here that we have had in all these projects, although we have relied on what it says on our own strengths, our own potentials and resources, but we have also had help from the competent ministry. I would like to point out once again that Osijek-Baranja County and the city of Osijek have secured space in Brussels and I think that it is good and has proved to be good in the last 2 years in that office not only the Osijek-Baranja County operates the other counties of eastern Croatia, but also not just the east of Croatia, so here I am using the opportunity for projects continuously from time to time depending on the needs of the local level I can use the services of this office in Brussels. The regional development agency Slavonia and Baranja has applied to 54 projects so far. 14 were conducted, 29 were implemented, and 11 were evaluated. The total value of these projects is 21m euros. What's certainly a lack, and what's seen in our county, and so certainly at the state level, that's three things. First of all, I repeat, it is certain that we are still learning, the lack of knowledge is quite certain to be manifested in the application of individual projects, but also a lack of information, but also a lack of proactive steps. When I say a lack of proactive steps, then I mean financing insurance, and in particular this applies to the programme that's coming, it's IPA. Earlier in this IPA programme, pre-financing of projects by users has been negotiated and this pre-financing is not insignificant in very large amounts. Now, you can have an extremely high-quality project, a necessary project at local level, support even the competent ministry and all those institutions that are needed, complete documentation, but you don't have the resources. Then what? And you need to, as a prerequisite, participate in a project like this. I'll be back, not from the IPA program, but we, for example, have to get 960 thousand euros in the project of the business incubator Bios, to participate with a million and 500 thousand kunas until the building permit comes out. Now, I'm asking you when you should be in such a single project that is extremely valuable to participate in, for example, Lenjska varoš whose budget is such that they themselves cannot provide. And the mechanism to secure these initial assets has not yet been secured. Therefore, I think that this should also be done, so aside from continuing education, except for working out that the information that the competent ministry has to find a way to bring them down to all local levels, not to say almost at the moment that it does not actually happen that the information is coming down immediately before the competition is announced, or when some of the tenders are published, but I also think that the biggest problem is to provide financial resources, especially for these small units of local self-government and administration, or those units that have a small fiscal capacity. Here, the HDSSB understands all these difficulties in obtaining funds from pre-accession funds, but of course the activities and the competent ministry and all the people who worked on this, this report for 2007 will accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8844	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate at this point. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. She's gone. He's also losing his right to debate. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8845	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the conclusion of this 2005 High House, we have before us a report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the use of the European Union's access funds with special reference to planned and unused programmes, withdrawn and unused funds, and possible fraud and irregularities in the process of using pre-accession funds. I will try to deny all those colleagues who, in all their previous exhibitions, have claimed that there are no qualified people at the state, regional and local level for such projects, or for the withdrawal of the European Union's funds. For example, Zadar and Sibenik-Knin County. Zadar County has used funds from all available European Union programmes, in particular KARC and both components, both national and regional. Out of the total location for the Republic of Croatia, Zadar County, along with Sibenik-Kninska, has benefited from the regional component and technical and financial assistance in a significant amount. We started the programme somewhere in 2002, but we also knew that one of the most important chapters in the negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union is regional policy because it has more than 30% of the EU budget and that the development of the programme and their implementation requires a clear administrative organisation that includes cooperation between public and private institutions. We also knew that in order for the Republic of Croatia to join the Structural Funds, it must show its ability to plan and implement regional development policies in accordance with European Union practices. Knowing also that the funds from KARC will be released for regional development only if the programmes contribute to the ultimate objective, which is to prepare the Republic of Croatia for structural funds, we are on our way, in Zadar County means, together with Sibenik at regional self-government level, to examine our ability to withdraw funds from the CARC 2002 programme sustainable development in the war-affected areas at our disposal by the European Commission. It was a three-year regional development project for these two counties, whose total budget was 14m euros. The deadline for completion was 31.12.2006. The long-term objective of the project was to make regional development policy compatible with the European Union, and the short-term objectives of the successfully allocated financial resources and the development of local actors' capacity to plan and run regional policies in line with the principles of the European Union and to improve the quality of the regional operational programme as a planning instrument. The short-term objectives have been fully met. The resources available to be withdrawn and fully and prematurely developed the capacity of local actors to plan and run regional policy. I'll just say 18 seminars were held for all participants. All who wished could be included or were included in seminars held at the level of Zadar County. With the creation of an updated ROP, we have once again mastered the methodology for the development of a regional operational programme as a planning instrument and on the basis of prepared projects, we have withdrawn significant funds from the funds, from the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia, and from the European Investment Bank's funds, as well as from the World Bank's loan. The quality and responsible implementation of the CARDS programme in the field of Zadar and Sibenik-Knin County, with significant moves from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, must have contributed to the accreditation of the Republic of Croatia in February 2006 when the project was decentralised and thus transferred management and implementation of the tender to the Ministry of Finance. I will only briefly list the projects in which Zadar County participated either as a project holder or as a user. From the CARDS programme in 2002, the first project I have already mentioned in the amount of EUR 7 million. The second project is a strategy to strengthen capacity on regional, regional development capacity, the institution of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the user of Zadar County. And third project local employment partnership, holder of the Croatian Employment Institute and result in the Zadar County area, which is a strategy for the development of human resources for the Zadar County area. From the CARDS programme in 2003 we used the program "Development of business and investment climates in the Republic of Croatia". The programme was implemented by the Government or the Ministry of Economy, and the result was that Zadar County again, together with Sibenik-Kninski, achieved the required level of preparation and deserved an internationally recognised certificate. We used two programmes from the CARDS programme in 2004 and I'm going to stay here for a little while because it's cross-border cooperation. The cross-border and transnational financing at the state level is now being financed with around EUR 16.2 million from CARDS and PHARE. It's 137 projects. In this segment almost 90% of the agreed funds are projects in the implementation phase and all remaining funds will be used according to plan. Let's just say I'm going to mention just here the disputed PHARE program in this component is practically all arranged. No program in this program has been challenged in those, mentioned disputes before. The importance of these projects means cross-border and transnational cooperation consists of 18 of 20+1 counties having direct physical borders with neighbouring countries. Practically, the Republic of Croatia is in general cross-border character. The Republic of Croatia is included in 6 IPA cross-border programmes and 2 transnational. Each county is practically included with 1 or 2 programs directly or indirectly. For the period from 2007 to 2013, for this part, EUR 72 million is foreseen and we know that the value in this component is between EUR 50 and EUR 450 000 per project, which means that we could have between 1000 and 1300 projects for this next period by 2013. Certainly, given these characteristics of this programme line, there is a great interest in the county, cities, municipalities and NGOs. And practically these projects are the most useful means within concrete regional cooperation. In 2005, two projects were used by Zadar County. One is a network of health care, a health network that we use along with the Sibenik and Split along with Italy. And we have another project. It is the construction of a business infrastructure in the business zone of Chopo in the town of Benkovac, worth almost EUR million. From the PHARE programme in 2006 we have a very well-prepared couple of projects, but here they are, an evaluation is under way. The SAPHARD programme also boasts two very valuable projects, a 10 million kuna milkmaker’s equipment and equipment for the construction of a million kuna fish processing facility. Also mentioned is the programme for, in Sibenik County from ISPA, the Regional Waste Management Centre, also a very valuable project. Here, through such a large number of projects, just for example of this one, two counties, a large number of different projects and strict procedures of the European Union through learning have also made irregularities which this report does not even hide. However, it is observed that they are managed by irregularities to be managed in accordance with the procedures and standards of the European Union. It is evident from the report that the observed irregularities are mostly technical. They do not have a high risk in the sense that they point to poor functioning or fraud in the system. I therefore support this report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and by exposing the use of funds from almost all available pre-accession programmes to assist the European Union in the field of Zadar and Sibenik-Knin County, I wanted to show that both the regional and local self-government, using the assistance of the European Union, developed capacities and became a partner to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in preparing and programming for the new Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. So in preparation, the government did most of its work during the reporting period. I hope this is a guarantee and I believe that this is a guarantee that we will be prepared at all levels to speed up the use of the IPA component and thus welcome the use of structural and cohesion funds whose budgets are significantly higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8846	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Ms Ivana Maletic, please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8847	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I have to look back at the presentations of club representatives and, of course, answer the questions that were directly asked. What is very important and I want to point out at first is that when considering the pre-accession programmes of the European Union, it is always important to take care of this time scale of implementation of these programmes because it is essentially difficult to draw a line at any point in time in the implementation of programmes and projects and it is important to keep in mind the precise deadlines agreed with the Commission when signing financial agreements. So, for example. When we talk about the CARDS programs we have exactly and about the PHARE programs, we have precise deadlines to negotiate, deadlines to end the contract, deadlines to pay. Underlining the line and talking about how much something has been done or not before a certain deadline has expired is actually just some conjecture in which we can be pessimistic or optimistic, so we can be positive or negative. Of course, if I were a person working in that, I'd say we'd pay for everything and take advantage of everything and that's our wish and our goal. I hope, in fact, the desire and purpose of all of us. So at this point, the deadlines that have expired are tied to the deadlines for the CARDS 2003, 2004 and the PHARE 2005 negotiations. So the deals and there's the indicators, the figures are what they are and they're really extremely positive. Of course, the system at the beginning is that we are still learning the procedures of the work of the European Union and their financial regulation and the rules of bargaining, so procurement and bargaining, and in this process we must therefore pass our lessons, make mistakes, but learn from these mistakes and correct them, and basically make the system stronger and make it as effective as possible to show as a Member State that we can actually perform strongly on the European market and actually use European funds. Also when we talk about this time scale, it's so hard, the respected Mr. Representative Mondekar actually mentioned some projects. One of the projects in the judiciary at which the preconditions for continuing the process of working on the negotiation of the project were not met. However, this was also at that time in the report, but the preconditions were met, one line system was established and the 30.4. project was forwarded, the total technical documentation was forwarded to the delegation for further verification, so the project goes ahead. Why do I specifically state this example? Reports, in fact, are very positive for us precisely as we are looking for reports of this kind in the Croatian Parliament, that is something we always point out as a very positive example because it is not only a government interested in quality work in establishing this system and implementing projects but even at the highest level we have an interest and a desire to monitor, monitor and quality means warning of the necessary improvements. As far as government reports are concerned, we send monthly reports, including two weeks and ad hoc reports, if necessary, that highlight some of these shortcomings and problems, and this was in one of the government reports. So stressed that at this point the preconditions were not met, that they had to be met, the bodies responded immediately adequately, did so until the end of the deadlines. So these are some kind of warning mechanisms that are then placed at government level and among all the resolutions. We are trying to send a concrete report to the Parliament of the state of affairs, actually, without any hypothetical speculation about what it would be like to be rather than a concrete report of what the current situation is. So let's say the same thing if we talk about these ISPA projects that were mentioned. Yes, indeed, these are major infrastructure projects, but the deadline for the completion of the project contract is 31.12.2010. Six contracts have been signed so far, four contracts have been published. So the projects are under way, the process is in motion. Of course, at some point you can always encounter an archaeological site, or you can change the weather, so it can endanger the project, but it's simply a higher force that we can't really influence. The deadline is set and we hope that given the dynamics we have, we will actually successfully implement these projects and execute them. Another question was about cross-border cooperation. We have, for example, been in one position as a candidate country so far, we have actually had opportunities to participate in cross-border cooperation with the Member States, so Slovenia, Hungary, Italy and, in fact, in these countries, are managing bodies and, above all, their work depends on how much the funds will actually be used and negotiated. So it's a little out of our hands. We are doing our best, but again it is the key role of the Member State. However, we have proven our quality of work and credibility and received an opportunity in IPA in cross-border cooperation, in fact, to start working with not only Member States but also countries that are neither candidate countries, so we will have a leading role in such projects and we will be able to withdraw and profile ourselves as one leader in the region in that part, and that was, of course, the goal. As far as the project selection criteria are concerned, the same is the question of a respected representative. The selection criteria are always related to the preparation of the project, so that the level and quality of the preparation of the project so that it can be really qualityd then implemented and implemented, and are of course related to the link between the project and the regulation of the European Union and the acquis, with the directives. So when we talk about these infrastructure projects not only in transport but also in the environment, then it's important that it's an area of waste water, air, water supply. So exactly defined areas in which certain projects are then, from which certain projects come into consideration or not. Another question was about Sapard. So in the SAPARD, as regards the third measure, the system was not accredited to use the third measure and we focused primarily on the use of the first and second measures. We hope that after this third competition, we will show greater absorption power and that the third measures will succeed in realising the first and second measures and thus make a successful use of them. Here, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8848	Thank you. We move to an individual debate, not an individual debate continues, only now it is Mr. Representative Frano Matušić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8849	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would also touch this time scale because it seems to me to be actually the most important thing today. Listening to fellow representatives of the opposition clubs, it was clear that either we were not reading the same documents or indeed these documents are interpreted in a way that is not really appropriate at this time. Why am I saying that? Because there's been a lot of talk here that it's about unprofessional services within the state administration, that it's about unprofessional people, that it's about incompetence, that we haven't been able to take advantage of our chances, etc. The only thing we can talk about today is if we're talking about deadlines, that's that the deadlines are up only for making funds, and that's for certain programmes, only for making funds, those deadlines are for us. And when we talk about it then we must say that Croatia has achieved extraordinary results because it was used in PHARE in 2005 up to 97.7% in CARDS in 2003. etc., 1994. 96, 2002-2004. So we can say that Croatia has done something that has not actually gone hand in hand for the Member States of the European Union today which have been going through similar programmes. Croatia has taken this hand in the best possible way since it has agreed on funds in such high percentages. We have already heard that the European Union's criterion is that the use or arrangement of funds is increasing by 70% that it is actually a success and that is clearly said by partners from the European Commission. The second thing about the time dimension is when payment deadlines expire on these agreed means, it's extremely important. It's only the end of 2009. It is only at the end of 2009 that when the deadlines for paying these projects start, then we can tell if all the agreed funds and funds have been withdrawn, and that is only the first term, the first time period for which we can determine whether the funds agreed in amounts have been withdrawn, so in percentages of over 95 or 97%. So today we can't talk as casually as we tried to say today that we didn't use the funds. Which means when we don't have payment deadlines yet, because we can't even have them before the end of 2009. We're only today, we're not even in the middle of 2008. It's only a year and a half before those deadlines start running out, and then we'll have solid knowledge of what really happened to all these projects. Of course, the projects are being monitored, the realization is being monitored, everything about the projects is being monitored, but we can't talk today about these funds being withdrawn and not being used, or we can't say that they're planned and not being used. So it's completely incorrect and it just doesn't stand. And it really is an incomprehensible reason why individual representatives or on behalf of clubs perform in such a way. I think that we have really one quality document in front of us that clearly says that Croatia has actually managed to make and started to do structural reforms that will help us in the future, in the very near future when we become members of the European Union because using these pre-accession programmes to help the European Union, Croatia is actually doing its structural reform to make use of structural and cohesion funds that will be significantly greater in the next step by entering the European Union. Here's the IPA, mentioned IPA. The amount of 750m euros is mentioned. This is the amount at our disposal from 2007 to 2011. Of course, in 2007, we weren't ready for such a thing, we were just building a system. At present, the system is on accreditation, so we will soon get answers quite safely, because it will certainly work, but we can certainly say, based on previous experiences, that we will make the most of the IPA funds and that we will find projects, programmes that will be extremely important for Croatia in this programme and that we will be able to use all the available funds of 750m euros. A little while ago, the secretary of state said that the deadline for the deal was not until 2010. So we're talking about something that's just ahead of us, that we're creating capacities for, and that's what's important. It should be said that we have made a major step in strengthening administrative capacity, that there are indeed ministries, agencies that have made a significant step forward and that indeed people who work in these institutions, who are only recently employed and employed in some institutions are recently and have completed only the competitions in which the people who are being educated, who are going to work on these jobs, and in this sense we can truly only praise ourselves on this report. What else does it matter to say? I think that Croatia has made a really great effort and that within the shortest deadlines it has actually done a job of accreditation at national level and at European Commission level. That's a very important point. We're comparing ourselves with others. So let us compare ourselves with others who have come similar to Croatia, although a new criterion is being set before us, as is the case with concrete negotiations with the European Union where new criteria have been introduced and even new chapters such as the chapter on justice that did not exist for countries that have entered the European Union before us. So some new standards are being set based on the experiences others have had. So, higher thresholds, higher requirements are being set, and in this sense we can really be proud of what was done, which is the state administration, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing through its efforts to respond to this really demanding task and to take advantage of the resources available to us. Here, I think that's very important. So this time dimension is extremely important at this point and we can just say welcome to this report that is very transparent. He's talking irregularities, he's talking about tracking the program, he's talking exactly what's going on with each of the pre-accession programs, and I personally support absolutely this way. What I may need to point out is communication with the public, communication with those users of funds, with those who want to apply to competitions. Perhaps a little more effort should be made to ensure that all information related to pre-accession programmes is actually made to those end-users, and in that sense I think that everyone is responsible and that the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations, which also sort of follows this issue by using pre-accession programmes to assist the European Union. And in that sense, I think we should all make an effort together, both the agencies and the ministries, but I say here in the Croatian Parliament to bring people closer to what all the programmes are about, which is not everything I can run for. I mean, it's already public, but never enough. In that sense, I think that this communication towards end-users must be even more intense and in this sense, perhaps we need to think about how to intensify communication towards end-users. So I support this report absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8850	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8851	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I fully agree with you that you need to take care of and take care of this time scale. This report, which I repeat again, should be every 6 months by decision of the Parliament and by consent of the Government every 6 months in the debate, we get it only after a year, is the report from the beginning, and it should be in 6 months, from the beginning of a longer period of time, and I fully agree with you that there is an important time component. What we did well and what we did well in 2006 while Europe ran projects and programmes. When we took the job into our own hands, when Europe gave us the opportunity to get into the situation from October last year, from December of last year additional measures, the State Secretary mentioned them, although shyly in the report 5 million less, frozen the project programmes, I am sure that it will freeze, I am sure and I am convinced, and ultimately it is necessary and necessary, but for these problems and because of the situation we have come to blame we ourselves. And finally, a colleague from Zadar County, I'm glad she mentioned what she mentioned and that's just proof that at a local level we have capacity, we have knowledge, there are opportunities, but only cities, municipalities and counties should be given that opportunity to use. So I completely agree with you that the time dimension here is questionable, but in a very different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8852	Answer, Mr. Matusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8853	I don't know if we're really reading the same reports. First of all, you said every six months we're in the 5th month, and this report is processed on 31.12.2007. So five months after the reporting period. Thus, it is clear that this report is very timely and that all of the following will certainly be on time. And when you talk about the moment when the Croatian authorities took over certain programmes in terms of financial management, i.e. Financial management said then we failed. That's not true. Look, you have a report for the CARDS 2003. 97.7% of the agreed funds, therefore a high percentage of implementation, unlike the previous two programmes, this annual programme has been fully transferred to Croatian state bodies in part of the financial management, and this is commendable. Also for the CARDS 2004. 94.6% of the execution rate and re-implementation fully transferred to Croatian state bodies. Can we say that something failed if used as a percentage of 94.6% as it is in this programme, so in this programme, CARDS 2000? So it's quite certain that what you're talking about has nothing to do with this report today. These are obstacles that stand in our way every day, not just for us, but for all those who deal with these programs, but who are being removed in progress, and certainly will not affect the deadlines or execution. Therefore, we can say that the state bodies are ready to be even more secure in a month or 5 months or a year, but it is clear that they have responded in the best possible way and within the shortest time limits of the requirements that are being put before them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8854	Thank you. It's Mr. Attorney Gary Cappelli's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8855	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have received a report on the use of pre-accession programmes to assist the European Union in line with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on 6 October 2005. Already, in the presentations of colleagues and colleagues, I will say a little bit, and I will say that this is the third report that has been given to us in the Parliament and for the second half of 2007. So, since we have the National Fund and since the Republic of Croatia has received accreditation for the use of pre-accession funds. When we talk about the report of pre-accession programmes, we will surely meet with, as we have seen today, different aspects of the success of use, but the data are accurate and say that for example, the percentage of use is, for example, CARDS over 90%, PHARE around 88%, which confirms its success and interest in the use of the pre-accession funds mentioned, i.e. the funds from their programmes. And we must also say that, given the deadlines and payments by all, as already mentioned in the approved programmes, they point out at the earliest end of 2009, so we can say that this is a successful figure. When we talk about pre-accession fund users, almost all sectors of the economy and society as a whole have direct or indirect benefits from pre-accession funds, however, it should be stressed that the specific sectors of environmental protection, transport and agriculture and regional development will be and have been one of the biggest beneficiaries of these funds. When I mention these high percentages, we must mention that they are achieved as soon as possible, and clearly clear conditions of creation and the infrastructure and preconditions needed to realise projects that are far more complex and complex and complicated than the programmes on which we were prepared as World Bank programmes before and from the Council of Europe. Of course, after all the trainings at all levels of the state administration are expected to be important and more high-quality developments in the coming period and year. Thus, in parallel with preparations for obtaining permits for the use of European Union funds and the preparation of quality projects financed by the European Union's funds, a large number of staff have been managed to implement it in a short time. Perhaps even more emphasis should be given on better quality and better education at lower levels as it may be in cities and counties. Although there is still some uncertainty about the continued use of pre-accession European Union programmes in Croatia, after a recent review of the decentralisation of pre-accession funds management systems, Croatia's programmes have been assessed for major improvements in the implementation system, say PHARE 2006. This just indicates that optimism can expect the European Union's decision, the European Commission, by the end of May. This would be a great encouragement, a natural incentive to processes related to the use of pre-accession European Union programmes, as it would give additional momentum and activities related to the accreditation of the new IPA programme in the Republic of Croatia. The Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance IPA is a new Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance for the period 2007-2011 which replaces previous CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPHAARD programmes. As far as SAPHARD is concerned, the competitions are dropping. The third SAPHARD competition, which began on February 19th, ended on April 3rd, was attended by only 23 applications. 46 applications were received for the comparison of the second invitation to tender from March to July 2007. And the first to last from the end of July to the end of October 2007 a total of 51 applications. However, one is the fact that despite a small number of applications, the average value of declared projects in the SAPHARD competitions and the value of the agreed funds from the SAPHARD programme was several times higher compared to other countries using the SAPHARD programme. It should also be stressed that the implementation of the European Union assistance programme needs to pass a long procedure that lasts long years and a lot of long periods that are common for the implementation of pre-accession programmes not only for Croatia but also for other countries that have entered the European Union. Finally, it is important to stress that the EU pre-accession programme management system sets out in detail the European Commission's rules in the section relating to irregularities and fraud, the mandatory establishment of a monitoring system, reporting of irregularities and fraud. The irregularities observed so far are, as we have heard from the secretary of state or colleague today of technical character and do not point to poor functioning or fraud in the system, which is for every commendation when known and needs to repeat the entire system. It has been created but has also worked parallelly to the use of these pre-accession programmes to assist the European Union. I will therefore vote in favour of this report, which is proof of the quality management of the European Union's systems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8856	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8857	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Allow me with several indications to conclude that the use of these pre-accession funds of the European Union's assistance programme is certainly in the capacity of training to manage the funds that the Republic of Croatia as a Member State will withdraw from the European budget. I think this is what we're doing today and these programs that these programs are, they're, for the program that's given it's help. Thus, it is in some way playing for what will come to us when we have to compete with other Member States on how to fund and withdraw. The report also found that in Croatia, the Croatian state bodies prepared themselves for the job as soon as possible. This report shows that this may be valid for the CARDS and the PHARE programme according to the data withdrawn. But for Saphard, I'm sure not. Although it is very important for agricultural production that, by entering the Republic of Croatia, the entry of the Republic of Croatia into Europe must be much more self-sufficient and economically profitable if it wants to survive the competitions of European production and surpluses that will be focused on our market. That is why I believe that this SAPHARD programme and the training of our agriculture are also much more important and important to make use of these funds so that even in the next period when we are members we can compete with other European countries. However, this report shows that out of the EUR 24.7 million allocated from 31.12.2007 that only three projects have been completed and that EUR 0,942 million has been withdrawn. It means not one million euros or 3.8% of the funds provided for. What is it that clearly does not produce the results of this, the realization of this support programme? In the first competition, five projects were agreed, in the second 24, and the third was up to 3.4, I don't know, I'm not aware of how much it was arranged, although I've heard something now, one number. Of these 97 reported projects, 68 were rejected and only 29 or 29.8% were accepted. So 70% of the programs that were sent were not accepted. I ask myself why such small percentages in the contract, especially in the withdrawal of funds or completed projects? I know, there have been arguments here the program is under way and so on, but I still think that we can ask ourselves some questions not because we are opposed to something or as that Mr. MP reacts immediately like we are against the Government, against this, but rather because of that we have to be concerned about this small percentage of the use of funds that are primarily intended to increase agricultural production and realisation through processing because here and for the processing facilities for agricultural products that will have a higher battery value. It is now evident and the decline of production in most plant and livestock production in these years, and the import of agricultural products shows an increased imbalance compared to exports. It's also been about that speech already here. Because of this, I think this program should be used not with these percentages but over 100%. Questions as to why the situation is so and why the results are more than weak in me also imposes a need for some answers. First, how much are we trained to carry out the fulfillment of very extensive documentation? Are the measures we've been given too difficult? The question is that projects that have the support of measures from the state can't, I don't know, get SAPHARD or something else that have certain others that certainly reduce the possibility of these programs being realized. I don't know if other countries have had more favourable measures and what with the implementation measures of this rural development, it's, I think the secretary of state said something about it, but this IPARD program from what you can see should be weighing over EUR 100 million, and it's about to be tied to this rural part. Then another question, consultants. I'm talking about things that people and the field told me about how they were trained? Whether they're there to make a quick profit or they're paid by the percentage of success. Who instructed them and whether or not they know the percentage of success of those who work, i.e. they or agencies, or I do not know who is private, etc. And the third question is, who's answering the contest? What kind of employers and whether they can meet the conditions to make positive, do positive business. It is also said that many young people who have just opened up companies cannot appear, and they may have ideas, etc. for certain financial bonuses that do not satisfy. As far as I know, the promotion for Saphard was permanent. In particular, the agricultural advisory service was involved. But in the end, we can see from this, Mr. Cappelli now that he was saying that the third contest and at least it was represented now. I don't know, and there's a question that's why our businessmen are weakly reporting to these competitions. Are they too heavy or aren't we interested? And in the end, I think we should do a quality analysis and give an assessment of who it is and where it's scheduled. I think every analysis of it comes from both specifics and so that we can better realize this part of the program. True, this program is not over, and that is why we need analysis to be able to perform further quality and better. But also according to these indicators for all agreed programmes in the first two competitions, the amount of support would be around 8m euros, nearly 36%. If we were all hard to realize that this programme will reach the fulfillment of the previous ones, we are talking about CARDS, PHAR, and we are also tasked with withdrawing from 2007 to 2011. 749 million euros. I think in the end, in order to do so, the services that will work on it will have to roll their sleeves well to fully carry out the task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8858	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8859	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'll rephrase my colleagues for a reason for them to be clearer here and for us all to get accurate information. Exactly what the colleague said was that somewhere around two and a half percent of the funds were used for the SAPARD, and that information is absolutely standing. So, about a million euros. It's okay. That's the part that's been paid. However, the colleague forgot to say that over 50% of the funds available total are over 50%, as they are two measures accredited for which a total of 14m euros from the SAPARD programme has been secured. Therefore, the third measure is not accredited. It's also right that you've established here. However, it should also know that the Republic of Croatia had very little time to prepare for the SAPARD programme, unlike all other countries that are now full members of the European Union, and they were users of the SAPARD programme that had been available for a full 7 years, and the Republic of Croatia remained only 2 years. So why is it only envisaged these two or three measures are precisely for that reason. It was not intended to go with more measures, as this would require a significantly longer preparation for the implementation of the entire system and, in practice, should the implementation of the SAPARD programme be discontinued, the level of utilisation of the funds would be minor. In my personal opinion, given that a third tender for the SAPARD program has been opened, since I believe that these funds available for the SAPARD program will be used. What the secretary of state has already said will require an allocation of these remaining funds, which are scheduled for the third measure to be transferred for the first and second measures. And also, I think it's important to know that today, so at this point, at the stage of accreditation for implementation and third measures. It is merely a question of the need for a third measure to implement the rules of public procurement of the European Union whether the third measure will be able to implement itself in the first place. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8860	Thank you. Mr. Bodakosh's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8861	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament and an esteemed colleague. I think my discussion just went in the direction of putting this part of the analysis in place, or what you're saying was a little bit of time, etc. However, we will not justify anything at all how little or much time we have had if we do not use the funds. What these 29 projects are agreed on is 36% of these 24.7 million. Of the total amount of investment in approved projects of 28.4 million, that is 31%. So when you're looking from these indicators that are, and especially this, I don't know this Mr. Representative Cappelly said how many 23, 25 programs that are in this third competition. So, and that's one drop in these programs, I'm asking myself how and how we're going to end up, or realize this SAPARD program. And especially what this program with this 102 million is at the door, that is, it should be realised as such, and I'm pushing right through this to give a quality analysis and an assessment of who and where it can do more. Let's not say who's where he's scheduled, but who and where he can do more to make this happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8862	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8863	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Deputy Secretary of State. So here, this exposure could be done in two ways, given that we're talking about the limited time frame that this report refers to. Then if that were to be limited to that, then my exposure would be brief and I would say that this report is good and that it shows that the system works, that when it discovers that there are some difficulties in correcting them, which Mrs. Secretary of State said very extensively. However, I think that this whole debate we have heard and listened to so far, and it was actually my guess when I thought about what this point says will actually be the key issue which is the real question when it comes to the funds that Croatia is using pre-accession funds. We are interested in representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This is also of interest to the entire Croatian public. When we talk about, therefore, that Croatia is using pre-accession funds, I think it should actually be seen through the prism of the tasks that those institutions in Croatia are doing need to do. One task is the task that we have heard about very often today, which is how we use these pre-accession funds, and the other is actually much more important because it carries a lot more money and it only follows us in the future when we become a Member State, which is how good these pre-accession funds come to the situation under a, in negotiations to get an adequate alocation because structural and cohesion funds are not acquired in full allocation since the first year, but is going so on. in English pheasant in, so go slowly into that system to get into it. The better the results, the better the alocation will be in the negotiations when Croatia becomes a Member State. And how to measure whether we're in this business right now, and now we're talking in 2008 about last year and years before it, whether we did it right. I think we need to go through three criteria. The first is measurable results. I'll try to talk less about them because we've been listening a lot. The measurable results can be the ones we've been listening to, and that's, you can take one project, one specific moment in that project and say, yeah, this isn't well used. But what's really a measurable result is what we've heard several times today, so it's agreed and paid. We heard, we agreed on deadlines for some, we got results, they're except for one year above 95%. I think these numbers speak for themselves, so excellent results. So there's been talk here about how, so it turns out that we don't know how to use the funds well. Well, I'd like to defuse it a little bit. Here I would deny it with 2 data, which is that for 2 projects when we programmed for KARC in 2004 and for PHARE in 2005, we received more money than was originally imagined. Why did we get them? We didn't, we'd never get them if we weren't good. Never, believe me. It was estimated that the system was good, that it worked well, we got 5 million in KARC in 2004 to build a border crossing and we got 7 million for several projects in PHARE in 2005. Therefore, the assessment and the institutions of the European Union which are involved in this, and which are concerned with several projects, be it ISPA, SAPARD, etc. These are different institutions that Croatia is doing very well in this business. I'll talk about what we've all talked about and what's undeniable, that there are challenges in this business. There are those who are equal to those challenges that other countries had, especially I'm going to talk about the last wave of enlargement, but you know they didn't have just those. There is one country nomin suunto diose and I will not talk here for diplomatic reasons about a country that was not a transition when it joined the European Union, it took it decades to repair the use of a structural and cohesion fund. So it's not easy work, it's not simple etc. There are problems that existed for all and there are specific problems that we have faced not by our own fault. And that's what we were talking about. So what are the same problems, are structural. One of these problems is that you need in this system that defends two of us here, State Secretary and Deputy Secretary of State, you need to get people who have to work as managers, and they need to work in the state administration, and that's actually, if you ask me personally, I mean the biggest problem of it. And no one has solved that question to the end. So, you have to get people who will work with great responsibility, work with the money that we're all going to call out because it's logical and we need to call out, who actually have to do this job for wages that, you know, in the state administration of our country, but, God, in other countries that have entered the European Union, they don't really know what kind of things. When they're this good, then the bank or some other consulting firm or some third firm is offering a lot more money. So the main challenge is how these good quality people like us are kept in the system. The other thing is, you need a big system for this whole thing. My colleague, it's not even here that they're talking about it. For accreditation, you need a hundred people for the SAPARD agency. The SAPARD agency did not exist in the Croatian system. You need a few departments at the Ministry of Finance that never existed. So at the same time you have in those criteria political efficiency, rationalization of the state administration, and here you have one system that bugs. He's just looking for some people and very often some new people. Not the people you have, so now you're just going to move them from one part to another. So these are about similar problems that we've had, and you need people with jobs that are usually hard to get into the state right now, which are engineers, those who work at the Ministry of the Environment or somewhere else, so you get a good engineer who's going to work on this, and infrastructure projects can't be done by someone else who isn't an engineer and who doesn't know about it. And of course, there's my story about what's actually the same as the country's 5th expansion before us. Where the specific thing was, that was the same thing. We got, we became a candidate, the candidate state of 2004 on funds, the commission came to the Croatian government only in late 2004, and in fact it gave the almost impossible mission, especially to colleagues who are dealing with SAPARD, who is very specific, which is working, you need to know, I don't think I heard it in this debate, functioning as a European Union fund, ex post can only be measured, etc. So an extremely demanding system which, here I admire and I think it's a great success that colleagues have managed to accredit these first two measures. As for this second job, so those who worked on accreditation and PHARE and ISPA also had extremely short deadlines, and you know what happened, they did it. And they did it as the only of all the countries that have ever done it before, and that's the part of the new story, as we have standards in negotiations, so we do a lot of things here as well as the states that were in this status at the time of accession, they didn't have to do it. So, in 2004, we managed to accredit the system from the first time, which was not working for countries when they joined the European Union in the 5th wave of enlargement. So, extremely, extremely great success. Why is this whole system important and how to set it up, how to do it? We get besides that, in our system you have now a situation that no one has had before us and no one will, I hope and thank God for them, will have. We run KARC, PHARE, ISPA, SAPARD and IPA parallelly. It didn't happen to anyone. New rules, new accreditation, we're now passing IPA accreditation that wouldn't have been passed if ISPA and SAPARD had remained. You need to know that the same people who work at the same time on projects and who wouldn't have done it if the system hadn't changed. So here I am going to try to sum up and close this story. I think that in the context of what has been set before Croatia, the times that have been given and in fact what you have, and you have the state administration as we have it, I think that a great success has actually been made, that this result is good and I would really like colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and colleagues from the ZDURF and their associates to congratulate on the work and everything they have done, but of course support them and in that I certainly think that Parliament has an important role to play, that they are still working on this because these challenges do not stop here. So these are not things that can be solved from today to tomorrow, but what we have seen through the implementation of the criteria set by the Commission, so far these results are also very good in scales. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8864	Thank you. We've got a replica, Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8865	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague is very professional, and she knows this problem, so I think I should say what the problems are, and that's what I'm missing in, partly you said, which I miss in this report. So I still think that it should have been used not only today but in the preparation itself since 2004 for the experience of those countries, especially those of our neighbours who entered the European Union in 2005. So we have success in cross-border projects precisely because our municipalities, i.e. local self-government units, work with partners in Slovenia and Hungary, part of Italy and actually use their knowledge and experience. The problem of the state administration is not to reduce the number of people but to come to quality people, people who are well paid and who will be paid so well to do quality work and not ask for work outside the state administration, and we just think that reform of the state administration is to reduce the number of people. In principle, to reduce the number of people, but to hire those who are professional. However, I am also concerned that just yesterday, today I read that our contract suspension for projects under the PHARE 2006 programme will be extended until the end of June. What are the basic objections? Delay in project design, insufficient quality of tender documentation, lack of professional staff. We're trying to get it on our noses, so in April, so last month we set up a special unit, an agency at the Ministry of Finance. But you can't work from today until tomorrow. Politics must be made up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8866	Thank you. Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8867	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I go from the end. I agree you can't work from today until tomorrow, and that's really not how it's done. As far as the agency is concerned, it was established only before all the assumptions that should have been made and strengthened by the agency, etc. all legal procedures carried out completed. But what I think is, therefore, that here is surely true, is that you are, you said this report does not talk about problems. He speaks in the part where he speaks of standards, and he says that he is responsible for these problems. So I don't see any reason to talk here that this report doesn't contain the problem part, it certainly exists, no one escapes from it, but it has been answered very clearly here in this report and I think it's even more detailed in its oral presentation and Madam Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8868	Replica, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8869	I'd like to point out that blockage and suspension are not a technical problem, it's a matter of substance, content problem. You can relax, but that way we won't solve the common problems and the common benefits, so we can't play about it here and that way. You have to admit some things to make things better tomorrow. But if you just run into things showing up differently than they are or finding excuses. I know that and I would agree with everything you said, nobody knows how hard it was, how it was in the beginnings of 2000, 2001, and even before. So form a unit, so you don't have people, so you don't have room to put it, so it's a hell of a problem. But if we're gonna convince ourselves now how hard it is then we're not gonna do anything. It's hard, but the government serves to find solutions, not to find excuses. I think that's the key thing. And what my colleague Zgrebec said when she discussed it with you. It's true that it's hard to find people, it's extremely hard to find people and it's low wages and it's hard. But then it is unacceptable when Croatia's negotiations with the EU were opened, at a lower level, but still a man entered the negotiating team that does not know English. Well, then let's not be surprised these jobs are hard for us. The efficiency of the administration is seen and, therefore, it's not only that you have people, it's also a strengthening of institutions, it's a question much more complex and it can't work if it's fundamentally not well established. But what it is and again I'm telling you what you said and distracted yourself, we don't have good people. But then we can't drive good people away. We must finally realize that if we hire a bad man, let everyone have a private company to hire him there if they trust such people. The state can't be a catch for that sort of thing. Let's let that political top or something that's normal for a government shift to come. But what will serve from day to day, year to year, and a whole series of times, really have to come quality people because we'll meet in these situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8870	Thank you. Reply by Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8871	Thank you very much. Well, here I would just suggest that I don't actually read all of this in the report. Of course, it's not just about the blockade here, it's about a lot of other things that are recognized in the system and that need to be corrected so I don't know how you read that there's only one challenge or problem that's not about others. And as for whether we have good people or not, then we didn't get along well. I said we have good people just so we have to work a little bit harder to keep them in the system for the long term, and I think that's the key word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8872	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8873	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State and Deputy Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia will be able to withdraw funds from the European budget by entering the European Union, and on the way into the European Union, Croatia is allowed to receive these funds through pre-accession aid programmes. In the assessment of how Croatia has prepared for the possibility of using pre-accession aid programmes, in general how Croatia has taken advantage of this possibility and in the assessment in which the Croatian state administration was most effective in the context of the use of these programmes, it is necessary to approach carefully and systematically and including subjectivity and the adoption of conferences at an emotional level. If something is to be evaluated realistically, it should always be taken into account the environment and circumstances in which something is accomplished and come from uncontestable facts. In response to the previous three questions concerning the use of pre-accession funds, it is necessary to take into account the circumstances in which Croatia was at the time when the possibility of using pre-accession funds appeared, but also the fact that the use of pre-accession programmes is a dynamic category for which only a one-year period cannot be assessed. What can undoubtedly be determined is that the Croatian state authorities have indeed prepared, within a very short period and technically and humanly appropriate preparations for the possibility of using European funds. There is no doubt that the possibility of using European funds and adapting all the factors in the implementation of these programmes was also a particular challenge for a state administration that was used to a different nature of action in previous years. A thorough restructuring and reorganisation of the state administration was needed in order to prepare and establish a permit for the use of European Union funds in such a short time and to prepare quality and enforceable projects financed by the European Union. Although everything can be sought and found, although both advantages and shortcomings can be interpreted in different ways, it encourages the fact that the public service of the Republic of Croatia does not remind the shelter of the incompetent because this report has confirmed that the public service has indeed responded to the standards and requirements of the European Union. Using the existing highly educated and trained human capacities, Croatia has completely exhausted allotments allocated to it through CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and Standard programmes, with exceptional quality projects under the PHARE programme, resulting in 7m euros more than the initial amount allocated. If we answer the question of how and how much Croatia has used the European budget through pre-accession programmes, we should be extremely pleased with the answer through the percentage of the implementation of the agreed funds. By the end of 2007, the deadlines for the negotiation of projects for the CARDS programmes 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 and the PHARE 2005 expired and the Republic of Croatia achieved a high percentage of implementation in all these programmes. For the CARDS 2001. 96.4%, CARDS 2002. 96.1%, CARDS 2003. 97.7%, 2004. 94.4% and PHARE 2005. 87.48%. Although the same impressions may vary between these data and the facts are opposed to those not fully satisfied and have a certain delay in this report. Taking into account all the difficulties facing the Republic of Croatia in preparing and implementing pre-accession funds programmes, all technical disadvantages, shortcomings in the lack of understanding of new administrative and technological processes, the lack of adequate qualified human potential and the results achieved, I think that the Republic of Croatia has made a very good and significant use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union. At the same time, only the report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union is of exceptional quality and content. I therefore congratulate all those who have taken part in any way in the implementation of the pre-accession programmes of the European Union, regardless of the period they have contributed to their activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8874	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8875	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Here's by reading this report on the use of the European Union's pre-accession funds simply invited me to say something about it, and to say some of my thoughts mainly for the reasons that I personally worked in these processes over the past few years. The Republic of Croatia has indeed done a lot on its way to the European Union, which has practically begun since the time of its independence until today. I will remind you that already then, the first President of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Franjo Tudjman, has drawn out our main foreign-political goals, among which one of the most important, was just to join the family of developed European countries, so to join the European Union. Today, after almost 18 years of age, the Republic of Croatia is in the process of achieving this goal, so here I am using the opportunity to thank this opportunity and in some ways to all those who have made their contribution and who will continue to contribute to these extremely demanding processes of the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union or to the community of developed European states. That trip wasn't even easy. The independence and independence of the Republic of Croatia were to be achieved, united and prepared by the Croatian people and Croatian citizens for the complete territorial liberation of our beautiful, to establish full democracy and rule of law, to accept and respect the diversity of all forms, to create an economical environment for the further development of the economy and entrepreneurial ideas, and to continuously make efforts related to legislative, administrative and institutional adaptation to the standards of the developed and modern world. About this part, something Mr Dragan Kovacevic spoke on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union's Representatives Club. Therefore, it was necessary to work to achieve all that makes one country independent, modern and perspective. Of course, this process is not over, we still have a lot of work ahead of us but I am personally convinced that our country and we can all meet together all of those goals that we put before us and so in 2009 become a full member of the European Union. One significant segment of the mosaic of all that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to do on its way to the European Union is the process of training our state and economic system for managing the funds that the Republic of Croatia as a Member State of the European Union will be able to benefit from from the European budget. These funds, i.e. the European Social Fund, the European Regional Development Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the Common Agricultural Policy Funds, or the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, are an instrument for regional and agricultural policies of the European Union aimed at equating the level of development of individual regions and individual Member States of the European Union. So, this is the good that awaits us by entering the European Union but until we are a full member of the European Union, Croatia will be able to use only funds from the pre-accession assistance programme, hence pre-accession instruments to help the European Union and so that it could achieve this, so that it could use those funds to meet all those requirements and assumptions that the European Commission has put before us. So in that legal, administrative and institutional sense that I was already talking about. I believe that we can proudly conclude that the Croatian state bodies have prepared as soon as possible for the use of the abovementioned pre-accession programmes to help the European Union, and we really must be proud of that. I've already talked about the SAOHRD itself here because the Republic of Croatia has certainly prepared the fastest from all the countries that have used the SAPHARD programme so far. For this reason, I would like to extend all my praises to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance, here we also have representatives of the Ministry of Finance, state institutions and bodies, of course all officials working in these state bodies, because I am personally aware of how much effort and effort it is necessary to put into place in order that a certain country or a certain competent authority should prepare and meet all those criteria put before us by the European Commission, so to get the final green light from the European Commission. In particular, I would like to commend the officials of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, today the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, i.e. the officials of the Director for Market and Structural Support in Agriculture, where administrative structures for the implementation of SAPHAARD are located. I was therefore involved personally, and I talked about this in all these processes, so in all those activities, from those initial negotiating and programming to those in the organisation of the agency and the establishment of a programme implementation system, to the very same, the process of national accreditation and at European Commission level, which is in fact the procedure that the European Commission grants us to work and manage the funds for certain pre-accession assistance programmes. For this very reason, I also know how demanding work is to build a system of institutions that will fully meet the European criteria for the use of today's pre-accession funds, and tomorrow the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. Namely, this report that is before us contains information about four pre-accession instruments that we can sort of share in two groups. In the first I would classify those that have been concluded, when it comes to the possibility of contracting projects, but it is important to emphasise, there have been a lot of words about this here, that the implementation of these, that it is possible to continue, continues to be able to implement these projects and to pay for these individual projects. While the second group includes those for whom there is still the implementation and payment of the opportunities and arrangements of the projects. In the first group is certainly CARDS and PHARE in 2005, so the instrument, I would say something about the CARDS instrument. This is a pre-accession instrument that can be used exclusively by countries that are not a lot of candidates to join the European Union, but are accession countries, so they are in the stabilisation and accession phase of the European Union. So the Republic of Croatia has achieved this possibility since 2004. No, because in 2004, the Republic of Croatia gained a candidate to join the European Union and since then the possibility of using the new three pre-accession funds of the European Union PHARE, ISPA and SAPHAARD that I would classify in another group has been opened. Just a few more sentences that will try to valorise the success of using the European Union's decentralised funds, the pre-accession assistance programmes mentioned above. From the report... Croatia almost completely exhausted allocated funds, which concludes that the preparatory phase of the projects nominated for funding was extremely high-quality, mainly those carried out by the state administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I think of those aid programmes that are now completed by CARDS and PHARE 2005. This does not lessen the successes of those programmes that are still in the negotiation phase, so PHARE 2006, ISPA and SAPHAARD, because I am convinced that they will ultimately receive extremely good results and that projects will be agreed up to the level of the appropriations and agreed projects will be fully funded. Taking into account the fact that the deadlines for the implementation and negotiation of projects for most programmes by the end of 2009 or the end of 2010 may be rightly optimistic that the level of final use of the appropriations is at stake. We must also not ignore the fact that Croatian funding from certain programmes is being used for only about a year and a half, as well as that other countries that are now full members of the European Union for the same period of application of these programmes have received significantly worse results. Finally, for all I could see in this report and the results achieved during this short period of use of the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance of the European Union, I believe that the report needs to be accepted unreservedly, and to send out words of support to all those working on the implementation of these programmes as an incentive to their future work and engagement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8876	Thank you. Mr. Representative and Vice President Neven Mimica. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8877	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I wouldn't repeat what was said here in a long-term debate on behalf of clubs and individual debates and on behalf of the board. I'd say something, my experience, the county experience from which I come about concrete application on the ground. I can tell from the very beginning of '94, '95. For years, our municipalities on the ground were reluctant to welcome these jobs that were put before them. There were no strategic plans for the development of municipalities, for example with me. Of the 26 municipalities, only four had strategic plans, so there were no spatial plans of the municipalities, there was no deadline, there were insufficient personnel with the necessary knowledge and experience to run for projects according to the European Union funds, short deadlines that found us on the ground then, and lack of knowledge of English by the applicators. These are the problems that I have seen on the ground and, of course, it was necessary to get to these problems so that not only my county, but every other county in Croatia, cities and municipalities came to this problem and worked all together, I think we here as parliamentary representatives that Croatia, regardless of any part of it, withdraws as much funds from these funds as possible, and we also have to notice here in the report that there is a lot of these funds and grants. In particular, I mean those municipalities and those cities of special state concern where these funds are practically necessary. I can also say that there was no strategy of regular development. Some of the experiences that I think are positive and concern my county. We have brought a regional opportunistic programme which the County Assembly has adopted before the summer, summer, summer vacation in 2005 and we have realized that we have to focus on this job as much as possible. Therefore, in the County Assembly, we appointed the Administrative Department for, which we called the Administrative Department for Development and European Integration. We brought in after the competition and testing of an independent commission, brought in five high-level persons who, together with the Technological Development Centro of the Brod-Posavina County co-financed by the Brod-Posavina County budget, were at the service of those looking for programmes, met their demands and were of course the economy of Brod-Posavina County at the service and such hard work, with zero work over two years we received good results. We've proposed 43 projects. 27 projects have been approved, and 23 are in the implementation process. Overall, according to all the projects in Brodo-Posavina County, the county that has been through the war problems, where the economy has almost died 103 and a half million kunas, 23 million CARDS, 13 million World Bank, SAPHARD 3 and a half million kunas, and especially here, I would like to highlight the cross-border cooperation of the region of the brand Italy and the Brod-Posavina County where 5 million, 5 million kunas have been withdrawn for one project. And something that's very important here to emphasize by me is through, over a period of two years co-financed 52 projects. It is important to note, in my opinion, those projects where the funds have not been fully implemented, but those funds have been used for demining the Brod-Posavina County and as far as I hear from my colleagues that such a case has been in other mine- or mine-related counties. For all the sake of the matter here, I will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8878	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Representative Gordan, Iron Flego, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8879	For me, the report on the use of pre-accession funds is only one part of the big report. This large report is called Croatia's preparation for the European Union, and of course this report is also called a qualitative and not just quantitative use of funds. I wish one day we could find out very soon how the funds were used. Not how much money was used but how the funds were used and what was done with them and what we believed was done and perhaps in some cases it was not done. In the education system, it seems to me that there is a whole series of gaps. There are a number of gaps from how the funds were used and what funds were used and which funds were not used or did not come to the beginning of the agenda? So I would like to talk about this whole, so if this, quantitative report was accompanied by another qualitative analysis and thus showed us where we stand in the factual preparation for the use of European funds. Secondly, we are already using one part of the European programmes, and this also raises the question whether we are using them well? So the qualitative question is whether we're using them the way we are now and the question is whether we've chosen primary programs or not. Excuse the priority programs instead of the ones we chose? Let me give you an example. There's something called a student exchange program, teachers and administrators at the university. It's only now that we've entered the pilot project. And to start implementing the program, we're going to need two more and maybe three more years. We are late because all the countries that had a period of preparation, for example, for 4 to 7 years, used the exchange programme to, before they became members. I had the honour, let me put it this way, to participate in the negotiations in the education system, so we brought out a message from Brussels that there is an unused part of the Lifelong Learning Fund of EUR 13.17 million reserved for Croatia and Turkey. And when we brought that message, then it continued stubbornly to prepare the Law on adult education that is not compatible with European programmes, and so one part or one good part of this cake simply evaporated. And finally one part of the agencies that should actually work seriously on international co-operation and on the substitial, substitial, non-formal preparation of Croatia for European co-operation, so far in the education system is not sufficiently equipped and neither structurally nor meaningfully, according to my knowledge, is adapted to European standards and thus cannot benefit all of this together. So, of course, I am pleased to have this level of usability of European funds, quantitatively speaking, I would like to hear much more about qualitative results, and therefore I suggest that this be also part of the report in the future, and only then will we be able to see what the real effects are. Mr. President, given the length of time I won't anymore, but I think I'm in charge, the main elements I've said. It'd give us a long time to work it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8880	Thank you very much. And five minutes on behalf of the SDP Club Mr. Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8881	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to begin by thanking the Secretary of State for the answers. Those were real questions. Thank you for your answers. Some things have been clarified. In these discussions, everything and everything was heard. Some things have been happening over and over again. There was little talk about community programmes, they talked about different projects in different counties. I'm glad to talk to you like this about counties of some kind, then I first heard there were a few projects in Zadar. I know that in Međimurje County, Međimurje County and the town of Čakovec together have a large amount of projects. I know Krapina-Zagorska has 12, 13 etc. What we're already here for once is that we'd like that list to be created together, to see where it's good, where it squeaks. From this point on, the SDP club is three times, this is the third time we have repeated one thing, which is that we think there are really great people in the system who work for very small money and in the interest of the Republic of Croatia it should be that these people who, personally and personally, I know the master and the doctor of science, are further motivated to work on bigger salaries in order to stay in the system and not run away from us into some private consulting houses, which brings the country into an uncomfortable position to have to hire new ones, educate new ones, and that circle we cannot allow. EU funds. As for European funds, pre-accession programmes they have their own political dimension, which we have heard and seen on many occasions from Ollie Rehn and various other European officials. How we will fight corruption in Croatia, how we will reform the judiciary, how we will reform public administration, but how we will use EU funds is something Brussels is carefully looking at in the Republic of Croatia. It must be fully in our personal thinking, and probably shared by everyone we must avoid all problems, we must do everything as it belongs. Because if further problems with EU funds arise, it can potentially slow the Croatian path towards the European Union to the harm of all citizens. As far as the report is concerned, what we said earlier is simply that the report is for, what counterpart Matusic warned well, for 2007. In 2007, these problems occurred, which were in the report given by the European Commission delegation, right in that year. And that's why they should have been listed which problems, why they broke out, why sanctions occurred, and how these problems should be solved. It's a question in our report. The most controversial thing that ever good things are all mentioned and it should go, but bad things are avoided at all, and that's why we're being asked that report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8882	Thank you very much. Five minutes also on behalf of the CNS Mr. Zlatko Koracevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8883	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Firstly, I am glad that today we had the opportunity to talk about this subject and the very tone of discussion, the arguments, the counter arguments say that it is one of the topics to which much depends in this country, that we were absolutely right a year ago when we simply forced the Government to give this Parliament, to give Parliament that report that it took over by Parliament's decision. That through the debate, and that through the debate, we have the opportunity to say all the good things and today they're being said about them. The other thing is how and how you want to understand the message. It's understandable to me that the task is to defend something at least basically, in the skeleton of things I know is known and clear that things aren't working out. That's completely understandable to me. However, the use of pre-accession funds and later structural, negotiations with the European Union, and I particularly underline the European Commission's decision of December 2007. Something that's the least in this report. I think this Parliament has earned and the Croatian public deserves the government to give information, full information on the problem. It is our skin, it is the future of this country, and I think it would be a minimum of decency if not, that if not for the public to at least give Parliament a full report on all this. Unfortunately, we learn about many things from the media, learn from the means of public communication and learn from various other ways, someone more, someone less, depending on who and how much opportunity he has had to hear certain information, but the problem remains. Five million is less. The funds are frozen and everything we've done long ago we should've done now at an accelerated pace. I'm glad it's done and that a certain positive solution is something we shouldn't have gotten into. There have been objections to my assessment of personnel expertise. If there is not enough information and argument that an aquis for negotiations with Europe is being put in place by someone who doesn't speak English, I don't think I should comment further. And the key is that I have to point out the same thing, which is. The people who are working on all these projects, all these programs of all these years, are the least responsible for this situation that we've found ourselves in, at least. In this country, there is someone who has taken responsibility to lead this country responsibly. There is someone in this country who through this responsibility must create conditions for possible problems, that the possible benefit is optimised and that for citizens, and that is the task, it is the government's function that citizens of that government benefit the most. If we have brought ourselves into a situation where Europe shares our pucks in the way mentioned in the December 2007 European Commission Report, I think it is clear who has to be responsible and to whom these words are addressed. At least the people who work on all these projects. So I'm glad there's an understanding after all. I'm glad the local and regional self-government units took over some of those jobs. It is not good that they have likely come up with opportunities based on political belongings or obedience. It would be good if we had these transparent criteria and it would be good, and I think it is crucial that we get a regional development strategy in this assembly as soon as possible, because it is something that Europe requires and it is a document that will in the most qualitative way generate the development of all our regions, and we will have to talk about it soon and it is better to bring it sooner than later. Once again, all the congratulators who worked honestly and consciously on this job, and critics of those who needed to ensure that we did not get into the situation we came into. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8884	In conclusion, Ms Ivana Maletic, State Secretary. Here you are, on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8885	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank everyone for all the suggestions, the remarks that have been made. The report will be improved in a way that we really try to fully reflect the questions that have been asked. What is important to emphasise is that pre-accession programmes are helping our way to use European funds. The European Commission has therefore sought to show the state of play in the report, when we talk about the use of pre-accession programmes at this time, or from 31.12.2007, there are positive but also negative elements in the report. So, the problems that happened by the end of 2007 that we are fully responding to are highlighted, and we have taken all the necessary action to get rid of them. However, these are not the packs of the European Commission towards the Republic of Croatia, it is actually a joint business, so our administration is together with the European Commission working in pre-accession programmes, together we want to reach a level where we have a system that will work quality when the Republic of Croatia becomes a member. So that's one common interest both the European Commission and the Republic of Croatia, and in that part we're trying to do, so within the short deadlines that we have to do what's best. Of course, it is our responsibility and to try to solve responsible problems that simply arise. But what is really important is that we build a system that will work on its own in a good way and solve problems in advance, so we don't need any extra incentives outside and that someone outside sees the problem better than we do, but that's all we see clearly. At this point in the pre-accession programme system, it is normal for the European Commission to see better. They have experience with all the countries that have been through this accession process, they have learned lessons by working with other countries and set criteria for us by learning from all the irregularities and all the problems that have been happening in other countries. We are in contact with other Member States, these newer Member States talking from the details they are torturing us, which the Commission is asking us to establish in the system, in fact we have learned that they have no solutions because they were not asked to do so at that time. The Commission did not know that it was extremely important in this system to establish and have a solution, but for us they know because they have learned from their example that it is important to resolve and establish this in our system. So this is why we are really facing requirements that are greater than those that have previously been put in place because the European Commission has also had its way of learning for 15 years, and our learning path is 2 years. In 2 years we've done a lot of things, and I'm sure this system will show that we are really a country of quality people, smart people, people ready for good solutions, good projects, so we can quickly, faster than everyone else and more successfully apply new rules of work in the state administration, and that's actually the focus of projects, programmes, goals, concrete results, that we know the results and the results really meet. Here, thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8886	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Sixth, Report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposals of the working bodies, which reads: "A report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union is accepted." Please, let's get involved and vote. I'm asking for a result. This report was accepted by most votes, 78 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 30 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8889	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights and the tariff on administrative fees which is its integral part shall regulate the payment of administrative fees for actions in the proceedings taken before the State Intellectual Property Office. In accordance with the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 7-The Law of Intellectual Property, as of 18 October 2006 and with the common position of the European Union at the Conference on Accession in Brussels on 14 February 2007, the Institute made amendments and amendments to 6 of the laws of its part-round and corresponding regulations during 2007. 1.1.2008 the European Patent Convention entered into force in the Republic of Croatia. These rules introduce new legal institutes, primarily a complaint, as well as a European patent, a Community trade mark and community design and some new procedures that cannot be implemented until the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Taxes enters into force in the fields of intellectual property rights. This proposed law achieves the necessary compliance of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, and therefore the adoption of an emergency law is proposed, and I would also like to report on behalf of the proposer that amendments to the Committee on Law be adopted in which paragraph 2 of Article 5 of the proposed law is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8890	Thank you. Does the committee reporter regret taking the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First, on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8891	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Secretary of State. At the very beginning, I will say that the Croatian Democratic Community's Club supports the adoption of this law very simply through this law is harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union and, as can be seen, much work has been preceded to come to a final solution. In fact, this very important area and procedures for intellectual property being conducted before the State Intellectual Property Institute is finally being formed and made compatible with the legal property of the European Union. Practically, our commitments made under the accession process to the European Union are being fulfilled. It should be pointed out here that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights is a far more complex harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union and that Croatia will, at the time of accession of the European Union, provide the same level of legal protection in the area of patents as it was established in the Member States of the European Union every day. In accordance with the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 7 – The Law of Intellectual Property of 18 October 2006 and with the common position of the European Union laid down at the Conference on Accession in Brussels on 17 February 2007, the following laws have already been passed and therefore the Proposer should be commended because here, even six laws preceded final harmonisation, such as the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Mark Act, the Law amending and supplementing the laws of origin and designations of products and services, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Topography, Semi-Horizonal Products, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. Today we also listened to the debates, and only on such an example do we see all the transformations that Croatian society needs to make and in practice work, not some call on the prevailing times that cannot help us, and I deliberately read these laws because it is not easy to bring them into line and even harder to implement in practice, but we have this infrastructure. So we have infrastructure from which we can build our modern society. The basic issues governing this law, this law that is so broadly changing what is being done and complemented in the sense of introducing the payment of administrative fees incurred as a consequence of the new institutes envisaged by the new legal infrastructure, a new legal basis. In particular, the payment of charges for the Institute of Appeal was introduced by the Law amending and supplementing the patent law to which other laws in the area of industrial ownership are called in the sense of introducing a second-degree procedure in the procedures for the recognition of the right of industrial ownership. Next, the payment of administrative fees for the proposal for a continuation of the procedure. Request to restore the right of the championship and amend it or supplement it. Payment of the fee for the conversion of the European patent application lodged through the European patent convention into a national application. Forwarding the application of the Community trade mark and the application of the Community industrial design, forwarding applications for international trade mark registration and compensation for disigning international trade mark registration. In addition, wording is proposed to harmonise the concepts used by the new law in the field of intellectual property rights such as: change of terms, re-establishment of the right to return to the previous situation. A minimum correction of the amount of certain administrative fees which are detailed in the interpretation of the text of the draft law has also been made. And I really want to stress that here a whole set of fees that are very detailed and precise and they move mostly up to 50 or 100 kuna and fees, some of which are several hundred kunas according to what is said and see how complex and specific matter is. It is therefore about fees moving within these several hundred kunas, but extremely important for this area of action and work such as intellectual property where now our citizens who provide and have the possibility of realisation become equal with those in the European Union. And finally, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, I am expressing once again the satisfaction of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, which is such a complex matter harmonised, and on the basis of the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia chapter 7 – the right of intellectual property with the acquis of the European Union, and this is indeed one big step forward because, according to the resolution and other issues that we have and do not need to add that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8892	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8893	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to point out that the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights, with the Final Proposal of the Law, so it is obvious that it is European law, or our law which I wish to comply with the standards of the European Union. But at first, I would like to point out in particular, we cannot agree with what Col. Šetić said on behalf of the HDZ Club, that it is a very complex and complex matter. No, if this were for the government, I wouldn't be underestimating the government so I would say that for the government, this was an extraordinary effort to make such changes that are determined, in which individual articles set a tariff for individual actions in the intellectual property process. The very matter of intellectual property certainly is complex and complex it is beyond any doubt, but to determine certain fees, or the amount of these fees for certain shops, is not a particularly complex job. And so, as we see ourselves here from the reasoning of the proposal, and as already here is a colleague of the government, we have committed ourselves to making this law during the second quarter of 2008. But the same is true because of the new institutes, as has already been pointed out, in the first instance, by the Institute of Appeal, which has introduced the patent law, we must therefore provide for both the introduction of the fee and those new institutes. I would like to say that in 2002, the amendments to the Tax Act both in judicial proceedings and in administrative proceedings reduced these fees for half. They were once so high that they made it impossible for citizens in their daily activities and in their own communication with the administration. And that's why it's good, we see here from several examples, that the tariff is reduced and that the fee is much smaller. For example, in the current tariff number seven, which speaks of copyright and related rights, then reduces the amount of the fee to be applied for in the register of representatives from 500 kuna to 50 kuna. I can also say that from Europe people who have observed harmonisation have always observed such and similar laws. Here I also remember the Court Register Act when they specifically pointed out that it was too high a registration fee in the court register and then it was about 100 or 200. So, a man who wants to form his company is a big problem to give 100 or 200 kuna. No one's ever said that, but we have to decide for ourselves how many fees our citizens are. They're still very high because they're still in business and social life, and they're all supposed to pay taxes in all of that country, from that most common extract from the queen of born, married, dead. I mean that parallel. Why am I pointing this out? In support of this, we also have to take care of these things because we tend to take great care of legal entities that are most often users of these services to which they pay, let us be realistically very small fees. And the citizen on the other hand, when he meets the administration, then there are a few such certificates that he needs in the first place in order to finally achieve and some other rights burden him significantly. Therefore, here I know that this is not yours and domain but we must all be very careful about it together when we meet those who are presumed to have, we must be socially sensitive and take care to protect ourselves equally and our citizens who are daily exposed to fees by asking for services from our administration. Now, by supporting this bill on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to particularly highlight this fact that, in the next I believe that, here it seems that in several laws that we have to pass in the third quarter of a very similar nature, which concerns our citizens, we have to take great care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8894	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. There is one representative, Mr. Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8895	Dear President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights with a proposal for a tariff for administrative fees which are its integral part. Other adoption of this law, as it has been said, provides for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2008. This law regulates the payment of administrative fees for actions in front of the State Institute for Intellectual Property and the tariffs for administrative fees, the level of their fees, the payment and discharge issues of the obligation to pay the fee, return and limitation of the right to return the fee and the belonging of the tax revenue. The adoption of this law is, above all, the consequence of the introduction of new legal institutes in the field of intellectual property rights in the process of harmonising domestic legislation with EU legislation. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union has obliged the Republic of Croatia to ensure the level of protection of intellectual property that exists in the countries of the European Union. The pre-accession negotiations define a whole group of laws regulating the field of intellectual property and which needed to be harmonised in meeting the commitments made under the Agreement. In accordance with the negotiating position for Chapter VII. – The intellectual property rights of 18 October 2006 and the common position of the European Union set out at the Conference on Accession in Brussels on 14 February 2007 The Croatian Parliament adopted a series of laws in July last year concerning the establishment of intellectual property rights governing the way intellectual property is acquired and how it is protected from its unauthorised use. These are the laws on amendments to the Law on Geographical Origin Tags and designations of origin of products and services, the Law on Copyright, the Law on patents, industrial design, and the Mark and the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products. These amendments and additions to those laws are introduced as a new legal institute, inter alia, the right to appeal against decisions taken by the State Intellectual Property Institute in the first instance, which ensures greater legal certainty for parties in the proceedings as well as greater control of decisions taken. The paper also introduces the establishment of appeal councils to decide on complaints and will act at the office as independent bodies. As regards the proposed tariffs for administrative fees, it is important to stress that so far the existing charges have not been changed mainly but have only been minimally adjusted. The introduction of new institutes such as the right to appeal, which implies the overall decision-making process on appeal, makes it clear that certain costs will be incurred by this law through certain amounts of fees. As the proposer states, it was made clear that the fees and costs of the appeal proceedings are not too high or too low because, if they are too high, they may restrict the party in the exercise of the right to appeal, if they are too low, they may result in various abuses of that remedy. The amendments also consist of the introduction of new institutes and the amendment of the name of certain legal concepts in accordance with the terminology used in the adopted laws in the field of intellectual property rights as proposed by the legislator and cited. For these reasons, I will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-14-0.u8896	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll be back at 9:30 tomorrow. We're going to skip two points because of the applicant's request, and we're going to start with point 6. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence, P.Z.E. No. 57. So, good-bye and good-bye till 9:30 in the morning. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights, P.Z.E. No. 59. The debate is closed. The proposer accepted the amendment of the Legislative Committee and it becomes an integral part of the final draft law and is not voted on. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes, 110 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, are accepted by the final proposal of this law.
