ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3680	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! We're going back to work. We move to the item of the agenda - Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 for the needs of national minorities pursuant to Article 37(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted that report. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State secret Mr. Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3681	... President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! [[Specially enabled.]] Although there are no perfect states and perfect societies but the Republic of Croatia in many issues of social life can be a model of state. He would remind all of us that one and perhaps the only operation of the United Nations was carried out in the Croatian area to establish power peacefully in the occupied area, and by calculating that part of the story of establishing trust in the war-related area, the Republic of Croatia has passed a constitutional law on the rights of national minorities guaranteeing the highest level of national minorities in Europe and I would say in the world. However, it is not enough to pass a good law, it is not enough to pass other laws that elaborate it up to in detail, but it is also necessary to implement it. And therefore, in the past, we have made great efforts to fully implement the Constitutional Law. Of course, we haven't done that yet, because it's a process. But our efforts have also yielded good results. Therefore, before you a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the national budget for 2006. It's a very exhaustive report, drawn up on 160 pages, detailed. All the activities in which the government participated, which the government encouraged, were mentioned, provided by local self-government units. Details are given and amounts of funds for each activity. We don't really have time, at least I don't want to take the time to discuss each single item. But I will stress what is most important, which is that the representation of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament is ensured, that national minorities in the representative bodies of the regional and local self-government units are also guaranteed, that we are also working to ensure that members of national minorities are represented in state authorities both in the state administration and in the judicial authorities, that the employment plan of last year also lists the employment plan of national minorities. We have conducted a broad campaign to encourage and encourage members of national minorities to appeal to their right under the Constitutional Law. So when a report on the rights of national minorities for the year we are finishing quickly, you will see how much progress has been made in achieving this right. He would point out only some financial indicators because it's measurable and these are figures. The numbers give the right picture. The state budget for the implementation of the Constitutional Law provided 70 million kuna and spent in 2006. And from the local budget, 14 million and 800,000 kuna. In particular, he would stress that this increase from the state budget compared to the previous year in 2005 is 110% and from the local budget by 43%. The biggest increase and the most expenditure were made for the implementation of the National Programme for Roma and the Decade Action Plan for Roma inclusion 2005-2015. In 2006, we singled out 11 million 886 thousand 670 kuna, an increase of 430% compared to the previous year. This process of full application of the Constitutional Law is not yet completed. And in the next period, we have an obligation to insist on ensuring representation in the authorities of the state administration, on ensuring employment. And this way I call upon members of the national minorities to report to the competition, to apply for their right to the championship that belongs to them under the Constitutional Law. And We guarantee that all the statutes will be obeyed as well as those of the Law of the Constitution. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council! We want you to discuss this report. Please adopt him. And to warn in your discussions about possible shortcomings in the implementation of the Constitutional Law, because I believe that we all have a common goal of implementing laws in Croatia and ensuring that the rights of national minorities are ensured as provided for by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3682	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3683	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 for the needs of national minorities at 1 February 2008. This report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 2 November 2007. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities is the parent body for this problem and therefore consider it particularly important for its action. The debate found that the report shows that the government and the competent authorities made significant efforts during 2006 to implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which is seen as taking place through increased allocation of funds in the state budget for the needs of national minorities and through numerous activities undertaken by the Government and other state bodies with the aim of implementing this Constitutional Law. The relevant legal solutions have created normative assumptions to address the problems faced by national minorities in achieving guaranteed minority rights and with the government's positive attitude towards minority issues, conditions are created for maintaining such a positive trend in addressing such a minority problem. It is noted, however, that there is still a sense of difference between normative solutions, meaning between this law and other laws and the declared policy on the one hand and what is being realised in practice on the other hand and that it is therefore necessary for all competent authorities at both national and regional and regional level to step up activities in order to ensure consistent implementation of minority rights policies. In particular, it points out problems in the exercise of the right of representation, i.e. the employment of national minorities in the bodies of the state administration and judicial authorities, as well as in the bodies of the administration of units of local and regional self-government as in public enterprises and in other services, and the problems of applying bilinguality guaranteed by the Constitutional Law and the problems of access to the media. As you can see, there are problems. When it comes to the councils of national minorities, it has been stressed that their functioning is still not nearly what the constitutional law intended for them to do. Many have not created any elemental conditions for their work, such as space, equipment, financial resources, etc. The report shows that there are cases where local self-government contributes only 2 thousand kuna to the work of these councils, which in itself shows what kind of relationship it is. It is also noted that there are local and regional self-governments that have granted all councils equal resources regardless of the significant differences in numbers and in the needs of individual minority communities and the problems faced by those communities. The opinion is expressed that the question of the role of councils with those local self-governments in which members of the national minority constitute the majority of the population and in which local self-government authorities are practically composed exclusively or almost exclusively of members of national minorities. And then there's a overlap that creates structural and political additional issues. It has also been pointed out that minority representation in administrative bodies is extremely important because all citizens and also members of national minorities tend to address their life issues. In other words, there are not enough members of national minorities in these bodies but they are important. It has been warned that the future report should include other issues, and the question of ethnically motivated incidents because they are directly linked to minority rights guaranteed by this law. In addition, although it is not a direct problem of this Constitutional Act, it is expressed the opinion that as soon as possible the committee should request information from the competent national authority on the resolution of the problem of housing and the return of property. Since resolving these issues is directly related to the exercise of fundamental human rights as well as the rights guaranteed by the Constitutional Law. In the debate, most board members pointed out that the concept of this report should be set differently in the future, more analysed of the reasons why certain rights are not being exercised. So it's a problem approach, not just analytical. To provide proposals for measures to be taken and mandatory to provide comparative information on the exercise of individual minority rights. That's all missing in this report. Compared to the previous period, progress in the exercise of the rights guaranteed by the Constitutional Law could be closely monitored. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion: "1. A report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the consumption of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 for the purposes of national minorities, with observations and proposals presented in the debate, is hereby adopted. 2. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit to the Croatian Assembly by 30 June 2008 at the latest a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of the budget for 2007, this is the sixth year we are now discussing, "for the needs of national minorities to ensure regularity in the reporting of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 37. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3684	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms. Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3685	Dear Mr. President, dear secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Republic of Croatia has made great progress in the development and democratisation of society in recent years. Not without reason are the rights of national minorities seen as one of the main indicators of democratisation. As a result of the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and by all national authorities, which has enabled national minorities to exercise rights in all areas, and has also contributed to the allocation of significant financial resources in the development of all kinds of activities of minority associations and other institutions, as well as to the creation of a positive atmosphere for the development and achievement of minority rights. The involvement of representatives of national minorities in the decision-making process at all levels from local to national is an undisputed factor in establishing partnership relations with national minorities and a condition for full development and democratisation in the Republic of Croatia. The rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are legally regulated at the highest level, not only by the assessment of our experts but also by the evaluation of European forums. The progress achieved is also witnessed by the Council of Europe, which regularly monitors the implementation of international documents that the Republic of Croatia has joined, in particular the Framework Convention on the Rights of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, which sees progress made in the exercise of minority rights. I will mention the most important areas in which progress is visible. In education of national minorities, in their language and letter, teaching is organised in all three programmes. I'll list those programs and these are the A model that all items are in the language and letter of the national minorities. B model containing social objects that are in the language and letter of national minorities. Te C model, language care and culture of national minorities. In all of these three models, 6 thousand 856 students were included last school year. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is implementing a national programme for the Roma from its own region. I'll just mention that in 2006 some 11 million kuna was allocated for Roma programmes. The introduction of councils and representatives of national minorities at local and regional level, as well as national minority councils at national level, included about 4 thousand members of national minorities in different forms of the decision-making process. This enables more quality exercise of the rights of national minorities, which is very important for the Republic of Croatia. The government has helped train the councils of local and regional authorities by organising numerous seminars across the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In the area of culture, it is possible to preserve and develop a number of forms of action by national minorities for which significant funds have been allocated that are increasing year by year. The official use of the language and letters of national minorities forms part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. A is prescribed by the statutes of the unit of local or regional self-government. It was introduced into units in the area of towns and municipalities in ten counties. In the area of employment of national minorities during 2006, the full legal framework for the full application of Article 22 has been rounded up. Constitutional law. In order to achieve employment of members of national minorities in judicial authorities, state administration bodies and local self-government units. In the exercise of religious rights, I state that 42 churches, or religious communities, are included in the record of religious communities. Despite the high level of rights achieved by national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, members of national minorities in some local units still face certain difficulties. First of all, in the exercise of those rights for which the authorities of local administrations and self-government, such as the official use of the language and letters of national minorities in certain environments, are responsible. However, it should be noted and it is also evident from this report that some local units did not adopt statutes so that these rights could be implemented. In this Report it is also important to highlight the financial indicators that testify, certainly the progress made in the Republic of Croatia. So I'll list a few of these financial achievements. For the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2006, 84 million 650 thousand and 270 kuna were allocated. Compared to the previous year 2005, the increase in funding from the State budget is 110%. Compared to 2005 the allocations from the State budget through the National Minorities Council have increased by 21% for associations and national minority institutions. For the financing of the Council and representatives of national minorities, a total of 14 million 883 thousand 813 kuna was allocated through local and regional self-government, compared to 2005 when 10 million 375 thousand 473 kuna was allocated to an increase of 43%. It is also necessary to allocate an increase in funding for education programmes for members of national minorities through the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which is an increase of 42%. The Ministry of Culture also increased funds from 6 million to 463 kuna in 2005, with 8 million to 738 thousand 353 kuna in 2006 for various types of cultural development and cultural needs. It should also be noted that the newly established fund for the promotion of pluralism, diversity, electronic media through the Electronic Media Council has also deployed for national minorities programmes, a total of a million 462 thousand and 44 kuna. The Republic of Croatia signed bilateral agreements on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority with Italy, Hungary, Serbia-Montenegro, which recognised the legal follow-up of a signed agreement with Serbia-Montenegro in Belgrade in 2004. In the end, I must say, I look forward to and I express my satisfaction with the involvement of minorities in the Republic of Croatia in solving the problems of Croatian minorities in European countries, especially those that have been caused by the collapse of Yugoslavia. Which is visible in the chapter on bilateral agreements. And I hope that in these republics of the Croatian minority they will achieve the same status as the minorities in Croatia. The Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3686	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3687	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. First, at the very beginning, on behalf of the SDP Club, I express my discontent that this report is only now under discussion in this House. We are at the end of February 2008, and this is the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law for 2006. And we don't understand why we didn't get it until at least half last year, so then we could discuss it, so maybe in the summer of last year. This is how we're discussing one report today and we're actually supposed to be on the benches for the other one by 2007. At the very end of the line, this can be read from certain parts of this report, which discusses something that was done in 2007 and should not essentially be included in the 2006 report. Therefore, as the SDP Club, we support the conclusion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which is required for the Government to submit a report to this House by 30 June of this year and to ensure regularity in the reporting process. What about the report? In fact, the report is relatively correct if we compare it in some way to the 2005 report, however, and in this report it is essentially merely estimating the current situation and in fact what happened to law enforcement in relation to, for example, 2005 so that we can see how real progress is made when it comes to the implementation of laws in which there are still problems, which measures should be taken only then we could talk about the effects of these, and the effects of these measures. In fact, on behalf of the club, I'd like to address a few areas. First, the problem of hiring members of national minorities in matters of state administration bodies, judicial authorities and at local self-government levels. If you have carefully read this report then you could notice on page 37 that when it comes to employment in the authorities of the state administration, then it is actually about 2007 or the State Service Plan in the bodies of the state administration, professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. So we're asking what happened in 2006? What happened then? This report does not only say that 1779 members of national minorities are employed in these state bodies. How many of them are in accordance with the Constitutional Law and the constitutional law in 2006 unfortunately from this report we cannot, we cannot read, and then of course we cannot say whether we have achieved any small, slightly greater shift and progress compared to 2005. And when you look at the 2005 report, then we see that the Central Office should adopt, or extend, the admission plan to the national service for 2006. However, this report cannot read whether the Central State Office has adopted the plan and to what extent the plan has been achieved. When we talk about local levels, it is then concluded that a significant shift has been made and that many units of local and regional self-government have brought plans to join the service. When you list the pages of reports that talk about this then, first of all, there is a huge discrepancies in the data that are individual locals, certain units of local self-government were clearly given to prepare this report. And they would beg on behalf of the club to try to make that data even in the future. And the fact is, in fact, there's still a lot of those units that haven't brought in. But it must be said that it is also evident that in certain units there is no financial resources. Here we can ask a question which is, in fact, the purpose of insisting that individual units of local self-government which are mandatory bring reception plans into service at the level of local units, and on the other hand objectively do not have the opportunity to achieve these reception plans in the service. So they don't have the financial means to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, When we talk about minority representation in judicial bodies, I will say again, neither can we speak nor know if we can talk about progress when we don't know what it was like a year ago. However, one conclusion can still be drawn. So it's imposed when you look at the numbers that you've been given in the tables in the back. Then those numbers are absolutely not shiny. And it is also said that employment plans have been adopted, that they were not adopted until 2007. So I expect that we will only be able to discuss this in the 2007 report. This opportunity should also be highlighted, as the State Secretary also said in his opening statement, when the employment of members of national minorities of words and in several places in this report mentions the non-application of candidates to their rights under the Constitutional Law. I think that we can actually say that it just shows that no level of activity is clearly being taken to create, in some ways, one positive climate and encouragement that candidates in applications for service use their rights as set out in Article 22. Constitutional law. Just like it says in this report on page 52. He says: “The small number of candidates who have called for national membership points to the need to take action in the future to create a positive climate and encourage candidates to use their rights under Article 22(2). Constitutional law." The only thing it doesn't say is what kind of activity these are and I think it should be written in this report. I have already said that when it comes to local self-government units, it is obvious that many face financial difficulties and I think that we should actually see what and in what way, as well as how from the level of the state, from the level of the central office or some other institutions should do and that these difficulties would prevail when it comes to finances at the levels of local self-government. However, this does not apply only, it refers to the adoption of reception plans but I have already said one thing is to bring in a reception plan and then to say that we do not have the financial means to hire new people. I will only read one example that says the Municipality of Rasinj Municipality's municipal headship did not, with the service reception plan, determine the fullness of the governing body by hiring the required number of members of the Serb national minority for reasons of the inability to hire new employees and tenants because new employment would add to the budget of the Rasinj municipality. This is just one example of this report. In this respect, it may be appropriate to follow the considerations given by the National Minority Council when discussing this report, when discussing the need for a single planning of the employment of members of national minorities in the professional services of state authorities and local and regional self-government. The second thing I would like to do on behalf of the club is also to look back, although when we talk about it again I repeat this report for 2006 and I now cannot say at this time what was going on and whether any progress was made during this whole year and more days behind us. However, when this report was evaluated and evaluated, special attention was also paid to public media issues related to Article 18. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. Namely, by assessing this report or keeping it at its meeting, the Council for National Minorities then expressed great dissatisfaction in 2007 with the way in which public media primarily approach the members of national minorities in terms of getting to know them, in terms of promoting and understanding minorities in society. In the opinion of the Council, it is precisely the electronic media that mainly create public change and general perception of national minorities because the fastest citizens are informed through them about the problem of members of national minorities, their position, their successes, and their real problems. And somewhere it's estimated that the media is still in a relatively sensational way accessing these problems, and then somehow those actual minority problems remain on the margins. So it might be interesting, in fact, to see what the report will be like when it comes to public media for 2007. Also, when it comes to the Fund for the Encouragement of pluralism and diversity of electronic media, and which is partly funded and the programmes of national minorities and the Fund has not fully adapted its criteria to the real needs of national minorities, and major remarks have also been made on Croatian television. Therefore, as a public institution which has not fully ensured the production of programmes in the languages of national minorities. In fact, one general assessment for that year in 2006 turns out that the public media in only one smaller part fulfilled their obligations under the Constitutional Law. I point out once again, this is the 2006 report and we'll see what happened in 2007. When we talk about the Councils of National Minorities, this report shows that it is in fact one of the major problems of implementing that part of the Constitutional Law, i.e. in the work of the Council of National Minorities, primarily due to the lack of funding at local levels, due to lack of material resources of space, equipment, etc. etc. On behalf of the club, we warn, we suspect that the situation will be better for 2007 and we assume that somewhere in some way the state would have to find a way to help those units of local self-government which, for financial reasons, cannot achieve that part of the Constitutional Law. In the end, regardless of all these remarks that I made on behalf of the club and which I believe will be recognized and respected by the Central State Office, we, as a club, will support this report. However, we warn that the more realistic we can assess this progress, the more we believe that reports in the future need to be set differently, comparable to previous periods with clearly indicated causes of non-compliance with the Constitutional Law, but also the necessary measures, and the effects of these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3688	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mrs. Christmas School. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3689	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleague Sobol said in her debate that the Lasinj municipality did not respect the national minority's right and that it was not about employment in a place that would belong to the national minority and that she found the reason for the finances that she could not accept it. I'm familiar with that case in the Lasinj municipality, and it's not true, but there were no candidates. That's the reason. It's been repeated on several occasions, but there were no candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3690	On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3691	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State and Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say something about this report without pretentiously making a big analysis, but I have a need to point out a few things because for minority communities the implementation of the Constitutional Law and the reports that talk about it are important and we ultimately think that this is an important thing for society. I'm going to say one note that the fact that the government bench is here is full of evidence shows interest in this matter. But on the other hand, I hope that this also shows the degree of responsibility of all government bodies for implementing what is written in the Constitutional Law because it is such a broad task. We are talking here about a 2006 report and it is a permanent delay. However, given earlier practice when it went into even greater delay, I could simply say that we have achieved some dynamics in time. But it would still be good to talk about it fresher if it said so, I'll start with the ideas of constitutional law as we interpret it, as it seems logical. This is, on the one hand, concern about the position of minority communities in society and on the other, the establishment of social standards that ensure that I say so, a positive, active relationship with the position of minority communities because it is also a proof of the order of Croatian society, because it is measured or beyond that criterion to how much we are governed as a society. The importance of constitutional law is so important, because it repeats us to legitimize our relationship with minority communities, but also to the maturity of our society as a whole. Now, this report is positively related to two things that I agree with. The first thing, the report says Croatia has a good standard. I think that's true. On the other hand, the report also indicates that a relatively large amount of money has been allocated through the form or formula of a council channel for minorities, and I find that accurate. And that if you take it as a starting position is fine, but that of course you agree you'll not agree enough. Because normative and donations through one channel don't solve the problem. They're a good guess but they don't solve the problem. Just to be a little rough, you can't just write the law, so we'll give the money, so let's just get it done on our own. It simply won't because it's minority communities, it's about something that's in the end line or in the first line however you like, the conscience of Croatian society. You can't solve the problem of minority communities if it doesn't do so primarily by the majority community with its assets. And I'm completely clear that it's a process and you can't do it from Tuesday on Wednesday, but there are numerous examples. There are various channels, there are various life situations in which we could of course do more. And I'm going to say something else that seems to me to exist in society as some kind of practical behavior or some sort of way of saying, "I wash my hands of it." There is a country-wide commitment at national level to run as much as possible, a pro-minity policy or a policy that will help minority communities to improve, say, their position. And I recognize both in the government's position both in this House and in various places at a rational level such a commitment. However, from this point to the realization of the local, even to the understanding of the issue, there is a certain gap in the local environment. Just before you, Mr. Secretary of State, spoke here for example about employment. You know about hiring minority members you can talk about in a way that we can hire as many laws as we have to, so let's get as many jobs as we have to. I think it would be better to be in the local environments, because employment in the function of the overall atmosphere, in the function of overall development, in the function of good relations. You can't even have development if you don't have better relationships. So in the function of better understanding among communities. You often have the opportunity and the opportunity I will say and the need to hire not as much as the sea, but as much social opportunism in that place and at that point how useful it is. That sends better messages, thus showing a better understanding of things. I mention it because it seems to me that from the state level to the local environments we haven't transformed that kind of benevolent attitude, that kind of, not benevolent attitude, that kind of useful social attitude. I'm very confident that's socially useful. And I'm gonna say one more thing about hiring. We have talked in this House before, and you know that we have changed the law, in order to open up a space for the employment of minorities, we had to change the Law on Courts, so the Law on State's Attorneys, then the Law on Officials and Officials, and then we have to change the law probably in some other segments to install a single provision. In such a criterion, minority members have the advantage of employment. We were told until it was out of the law, you know there's no obligation and here I come back to what I said, one thing is obligation, another thing is how much we understand the problem and how much by our own activity, by the majority policy and by the attitude of the majority people we want to go to the future in this thing to meet and solve problems in the encounter. Otherwise it's a pattern, and if you have a pattern, then you can't solve it. And one more thing I'm going to say in this dimension of time. When it comes to employment and when it comes to some other things that are doing the implementation of this law, we are in the formation of the Government in this session, our talks, and agreements, written papers produced what is now done, the action plan of employment, etc., the action plan of implementation of that and that, the action plan of something else. As soon as we do the action plan, that means we want to speed things up on the one hand, but on the other hand, it means that the thing is lagging behind, that we're forced by special measures to solve it. I'll repeat what I said. I'm clear that this is a process you know, but speeding up this process in improving the position of minority communities in society. It is useful both for minority communities and for the country as a whole. It should be detected not only in this place, not only in this other building, but much lower. Much lower. Now. I'll say one more thing about using language and letters. I said, I won't... All of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I point only to some questions that seem to deserve to be remembered for continuing this law enforcement story. You have, for example, the use of language and letter the need to install it in the Statutes of local units. And then it's installed even though it's not everywhere, but let's say it's built up as a legal obligation and it's jewelry in the Statute. But behind that, you have a reason we can't spend it because there's no money, we can't spend it because it's early. We can't spend it because it's still early. This definition is still used early and where it stands and where it does not stand. And it's used as an unprincipled explanation. I hope, Mr. Secretary of State, that in the realization of the Statute on the issue of employment and use of language and letter all together, and that from your position, we want to make a better inspection and send a message, it is beneficial for all together, and for the future of Croatia it is useful to resolve this much faster. Well, in the end, I'm going to say an illustration that speaks of some issues in return environments that disturb the elemental life situation completely unnecessary. You, I have a lawsuit here that's a man who's a temporary asset user owned by someone else. So, someone else's property. He's pressing charges against the owner for trespassing, and it's formally legitimate. But in his explanation, he wrote it. The property in question was temporarily owned and used by the prosecutor, therefore, by a temporary user of the Smiljčić Municipality's decision of 9 December 1996. And now you know how. No more Smiles Community. All possible legal and political and human reasons have passed, within which deadlines, within which this solution should be annulled. Now you don't know who will. But let's leave that detail now. A solution has been made here on behalf of the state and the state must react to say that we interrupt because real life has brought other situations. The man will lose this one, he will lose this lawsuit. The owner will lose his case and will pay court costs formally. A man out of his mind. But this situation is getting smaller and I'm satisfied about it. But it should not be lamented by such illustrations against the Republic of Croatia because it is both unfair and inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3692	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3693	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, honourable government officials headed by Minister Bishop, respected colleagues and colleagues! Let me join this debate on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and express our views and in connection with the 2006 Constitutional Law Implementation Report. I am a member of a national minority community and a longtime activist of its headquarters. In some ways, I know and feel the problems that ethnic communities in Croatia face, what is the dynamics of their resolution and what is at all the interrelationship between minorities themselves and the state that is also competent to coordinate and address problems at all levels, or to coordinate the problem at lower levels such as regional and local. I would like to remind you that the adoption and implementation of the Constitutional Law welcomed all ethnic and national communities in Croatia. Both minority and majority. It was a big step and a sign of the maturity of the political elite in the Republic of Croatia. One strong signal that witnessed our willingness to go in the democratisation of society not one but a few steps forward. And that's something that we can really proudly point out. And the Secretary of State is right to refer to it. The fact is that the constitutional law declares very high standards for the protection of national minority rights and that these standards are much higher than those in our environment and than those in the European Union. However, we in the Croatian People's Party keep repeating. It is not about doing it or doing it for someone else, not because of the European Union, but because of us wanting to create and every day to contribute to making the society in which we live happier, to be a place where everyone will live, whether he lives or only be born, who will be able to feel his own. Welcome to this world, a good, well-accepted member of the community, a man who, if you want to be emotionally attached to his company and give him everything he has, will give him everything to make everyone feel better. However, practice shows that the implementation of the Constitutional Law itself is going much harder than it was the process of its adoption. Of course, it seems to me that there is no law that is easier to implement than to write, but this Constitutional Court now has one history, has one tradition that it establishes and creates a positive spirit, one atmosphere that can help to improve it in the future and, in particular, to implement it faster, more efficiently. The fact is that from its adoption to this day, regardless of who the prime minister was, who were the ministers is constantly increasing financial resources intended for the implementation of this Constitutional Law and that is something to be welcomed. However, we need to know that the financial aspect of the implementation of the Constitutional Law is not the only one. In some cases, it's not the most important. The opportunities for individual national minority communities in the Republic of Croatia are different. Every minority when we talk about national minorities has a specific situation and different lists of priorities or open issues that they want to address. For someone, the biggest problem is exercising the right to work and employment, economic independence. For others, the question of language and letter is relevant, for the third other elements of cultural autonomy. For others, it is a matter of healing some painful wounds from the past. For some minorities, the issue of quality of life is open where they are more compact, especially in areas of special state concern. The fact is also that, through individual cases, the situation cannot be generalised but they do show a single atmosphere, especially in certain environments, especially in situations of individual national communities or minorities where we must do everything possible to remove such cases. Here, I'll mention a few examples. As you know, special attention is paid in the National Roma Programme on Employment and Education, of course. However, there is a paradoxical case that a man who has been one of the so far vice presidents of the Roma minority council for the city of Zagreb and Zagreb County is unfortunately one of the few academically educated Roma not having a job for 17 years and therefore a person who was a state representative in one sport has won many medals for Croatia. It is a person who writes and publishes doactive materials for Roma children and is a member of the Committee for Employment of Roma Zagreb and Zagreb County. It's a paradox. Seventeen years, that man can't get a job. If we can't hire him how we're going to hire all those other members of the Roma minority who haven't had the luck to be educated through other options before. Another example, my colleague, a member of my national minority born in Sarajevo, was interned as a little girl in the Rudolfsgenad concentration camp or a prince in today's Vojvodina. If you don't know, after World War II in the former Yugoslavia, there were 70 concentration camps for members of the German, Austrian national minorities. As a girl, she went through this torture and then settled in the Republic of Croatia, married, created a family, spent her entire working life here but today unfortunately she has no right to any compensation even though the camper is formerly like some others who may have been in camps in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, there is something to be said about elections for councils and representatives of national minorities. It is indeed a big step forward but we must be honest and say that neither those elections that were held in 2003 nor those that were conducted in 2007 were as expected because they were implemented quickly in short periods without the means to promote candidates, without the support of local media, and that is to say. And to do this constantly, the state needs to help make this system of elections at local levels live and get better. I'm going to name a case from last year, I'm sorry, it's about 2007 that's just amazing. In the city of Osijek elections were held for representatives of national minorities and the German national community the largest one would say the minority headquarters in Croatia won the absolute victory in these elections. But what happened? The interim election report published a regular real order of candidates and data on those who have actually entered the council. Afterwards, the election committee held an official report on an advertisement board in the city of Osijek. After the first report, minority members saw that everything was going well. The other ones were not seen because it was internally advertised in one of the administration corridors, it was past the deadline for appeal and it was found that someone had deliberately or not, it was, but wrongly compiled this report and that a name was entered from a list that did not go over the name of this list that passed. He passed the appeal deadline and there was nothing formal that could have been done. The council was entered by a person who was practically not elected. You need to think about it, so you need to think about situations like that. Furthermore, I will say that here in Croatia we have two roof associations of Montenegro's national minority. Only one is financially monitored. I would like to believe that the Alliance for National Minorities will have the space to further make an effort to accept in the financing system another organisation that also has a number of regional organisations and a relevant number of members. In this report, it is mentioned as one of the problems that some associations of national minorities do not work well on financial reports. This is not unique for this part of the NGO sector because we recognize it with other organisations, but let us bear in mind that many associations of national minorities do not have enough resources to pay professional accounting services especially in smaller areas. Even where some accounting services pay them, they do not know the difference between the accounting of profitable and non-profit organisations, so their reports are different from those that should be. And here's a recent change in the rules on the accounting of non-profit organisations, so I'm also taking this opportunity to warn all national minority organisations to pay attention to the change in that rule. But I have a proposal, I propose to the Central Office and the Council, that perhaps in cooperation with the Office of Associations, perhaps in cooperation with the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, one educational programme for responsible persons to prepare financial reports. To guide them into what, since they're not professionals, they learn. Furthermore, in the Croatian People's Party, we believe that the principle of positive discrimination is one way of harmonising the practice of participation in the decision-making process. Because so-called the double right to vote for which we have advocated, unfortunately it has not yet been accepted, would increase the number of voters who go to the elections in both variants. And for the so-called. the majority, or party and independent lists, as well as representatives of national minorities. With the introduction of a certain census that could be better achieved by giving a double right to vote, it would certainly increase the legitimacy of all those entering the Croatian Parliament and other bodies, especially at local and regional level. But citizens would also have the opportunity to express their political preferences but also to vote for a national representative. Here, lastly, I would like to say that the Croatian People's Party Club will support this report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. And to join the conclusions of the parent committee that his president informed us about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3694	Thank you very much. There is one correction, Mr. Vedran Rozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3695	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3696	Who picked it up, and, yes, then Mr. Memedi, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3697	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to state the incorrect allegations of Mr. Representative, he said, that a Roma, to whom... which I... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] ...that he can't get a job without being educated, that he's a athlete and that he's on the Committee of Employment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The truth that he is a member of the Committee in the Employment Service, the truth that he is like the electric engineer who is the most wanted profession in the Republic of Croatia, is strange to me that he cannot be employed here. But we need to know his past, where he was, what he was, why he changed his name, etc. I don't think that because of the Roma national minority he's not accepted but because of other things he can't. Because I'm going to tell you honestly, that it's not true that he appears constantly at the Employment Service, he's applying, but he doesn't want to work because he has no practice in his profession as an electric engineer. And another thing I'm going to say, because the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities not to apply in the Republic of Croatia today Memedia would not be here... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3698	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It is the Club of National Minorities, Mr. Representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3699	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, members of the government, fellow MPs. First of all, I thank you all for being in such a large number of presence when discussing this subject. So, minority issues are obviously interesting for all parliamentary representatives, which is also witnessed by your presence. What I would like to share, in some ways share my exposure in two separate parts, firstly as president of the National Minorities Club, I would like to make a few general remarks about the position of national minorities. And then in the second part, I would concentrate on the one, I would have a particularly close problem and that is the problem of the Bosniak minority in the Republic of Croatia. In the past term as a parliamentary representative and as a constituency group of friendships along with my colleagues, I have had more than 20 contacts with representatives of Islamic countries. Here, and this week I had a meeting with the current ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the returning ambassador of the Republic of Turkey also came to my party, we had one conversation. I point this out for two reasons. It is interesting that in most contacts with representatives of Islamic countries, the main issue was about the position of minorities in the Republic of Croatia, a special emphasis on the position of the Serb minority as well as the position of Islamic believers in the Republic of Croatia. And I've tried within the limits of the possibility to present our experiences properly. It seems to me that, in this way, we minority representatives have also made one contribution, a contribution that, with the United Nations vote to elect Croatia for an unreal member in the Security Council, we have also made no small contribution to this, to all our dear and significant decision. So you can clearly understand from this that we minority representatives also perform in the largest number of cases as citizens of this country whose development of Croatia is very expensive. Mr Memedi mentioned it earlier in a replica, and what we have in some way agreed, we support the Government of the Republic of Croatia as regards the affirmation of the Roma community. It is clear to all of us that Roma not only in Croatia but in almost all countries of the world had and lived under a special dose of discrimination. At the end of the day that it really is and the European Union has built its programme and it seems to me, Croatia seems to be working and seems very, very much. Of course, success is not enough just to wish for, to succeed, there is also a need for quality people within that community who will certainly be able to achieve this, this initiative in a more significant way. I have entered this House as a member of the Bosniak minority. I represent four more new minorities and, in general, when it comes to both these funds and when it comes to many problems, it should be known that there were indeed problems in relation to the old minority of the new minority, but I think we will be able to agree that thanks to the National Minority Council and the Government Office for National Minorities that many of the potential potential conflicts have been prevented in one valid way. So if there are ever increased tensions, we try to solve these problems properly. I would especially mention the affirmation of Islamic religious science in Croatian schools. At first I could tell you about many environments where there was resistance, resistance to introducing Islamic religious science into some primary and secondary schools. Thank God this has been prevailed year by year so that today we have a whole series of positive examples so that one of these examples would like to give you a bit of a trim. The other day we had an example of a primary school in Zagreb "Marija Jurić Zagorka" where the students of that school made a beautiful little film, a 10-minute film about the first hafiz born in the Republic of Croatia. That film speaks because with so much love it is made, so much love is presented. I had the honor of being present for the promotion of that film a week ago. And don't be surprised when you hear that movie was won by one of the most prestigious prizes in the competition. I am telling you this because you see that there are significant positive shifts, especially once again, I stress the affirmation of Islamic religion in secondary and primary schools in Croatia, and if there is a problem, we are trying to solve them properly. As far as the problem of the Bosniak community in Croatia is concerned, I think that in the past term I have kind of politicised the problem and I have updated it again for the simple reason that our estimates clearly show that the Bosniak in Croatia is somewhere around 60 thousand. And if you look at the central office report, the state office, then you'll see that the Bosniak on that list is somewhere less than 6 grand. So every 10. The Bosniak is registered here as the Bosniak. It's not the very problem of the Bosniak minority. That's our common problem. A common problem, I remember when I referred a question in the last term, a parliamentary question to Mr. Kirin, the interior minister, said to me: "Yes, I have to answer that there are no Bosniaks in the MUP but I really am not guilty that a significant part of the Bosniak minority does not want to be shown to be Bosniaks. They prefer to use a name that is no longer in use anywhere but in environments that they want in some way to further destabilise the Bosniak national minority, which is the old name from the former Muslim state community. I'm a Muslim but as an Islamic believer. But I'm Bosniak, like, when we talk about ethnicity. This issue must therefore be settled in a valid manner. The old Latins said, "Nomen est omens," the name is a sign, we recognize the name. The use of the name today as an ethnic decree is a form of discrimination against the Bosniak minority. Of course, if I were a cynic, then I could now give you the Slovenians the opportunity to do so and say that the Slovenians have perfected this form of discrimination. In the population list in Slovenia you will find Bosniaks, you will find Muslims but you will find the third category of Bosnians. So they went further. As far as Serbia is concerned, it has perfected this form of discrimination among minorities. There are Bosniaks, there are Muslims, there are undefined, there are Goranes, there are Sanjaklias. As far as the Croatian minority is concerned, you know that they are talking about the Bunjevci, the Shokci, the Croats and so on. Thus, so long as there are these forms and modes that someone's national name is being distributed in different ways, it is a form of discrimination. I hope that we and that question will work out in one valid way. As far as Bosniaks are concerned, our native language is Bosnian. And unlike Hungarians, Italians, and so on when I talk about bilingualism, you see that this is my Bosnian speech, Bosnian language and Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare's language we understand each other without any problems. And I hope the others can agree with this finding of mine. However, the problem of the destruction of the Bosniak people has not been since yesterday. It lasts for a century. We have been put in a position all the time to identify ourselves in some way and in this definition many Bosniak cultural workers have also created within the Croatian Cultural Circle. I'll just mention some names. Enver Colaković, I don't know how familiar you are but I would like to say that it is a Bosniak writer, a Croatian writer, a Hungarian writer, a Jewish writer. So, look, I used four specifics. In 1943, he received the Matica hrvatske award for a famous novel at least we Bosniaks dear "Legend of Ali-Pasha". Do you have Enver Colakovic Street in Zagreb? As far as I know, we don't. But I'll just mention some by-products. Hivzi Belavec, Edhen Ulabdić, Alija Najtak, Mak Dizdar and numerous, numerous writers, artists. They were creating. They are Bosniak writers who created within the Croatian cultural circle. And we are proud to point out that Bosniak dimension. But also the fact that they were part of the Croatian cultural circle. We have many writers, artists today. I would like to mention Enes Kisevic, Ibrahim Kajan, Ervin Jahic, Tarik Kulenovic and Sead Begovic, etc. They are all creators that many were born in Croatia. They live in Croatia, they create in Croatia but, of course, they keep the dimension of what is called the Bosniak spirit. And that's why, looking at these reports, I was financially not a little surprised when I read in one of the cultural ministry's reports the lists of how much the Ministry of Culture funded individual minority projects. Unfortunately, Bosniaks are funded with zero kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3700	Thank you. I would like to inform the representatives and MPs that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to apply for 10 minutes in 10 and 48. Before the next debate, please the Secretary of State, the Honorable Palaric, to address.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3701	Dear Mr. Vice President, so I answered because I would not want the impression that the Croatian state and government in any way discriminated against any minority in particular Bosniak. There is a certain misunderstanding regarding enrollment of national membership in the list of voters. We want to solve this problem, but we cannot resolve it by administrative means without the will of the citizens to plead for it. Croatia is implementing a pro-active national policy towards national minorities, the Croatian administration will meet everyone. He can freely plead as a member of the Croatian people, as a member of any national minority. We will go out in every way possible to meet, but without demands, without the will of a certain citizen, we cannot or won't change the nationality. Of course, if I were here then I would respond to some criticisms and complaints raised so far regarding the time when the report appears he was drawn up and referred to the procedure even in November, and for us it is acceptable that the Human Rights Committee's proposal to complete the report by June 30th and we will discuss it and we will discuss it in time. This report will certainly be better because the situation is much better, because in the meantime we have made great efforts primarily in creating a positive environment. In fact, we've organized OSS missions across the country gatherings. We were from Vukovar via Sisak, Gospić, Benkovec to Knin where we talked about these topics where we spread good will, where we invited members of the national minorities to appear in competitions, to call for the rights that belong to them under the Constitutional Law. But I'll say one more thing. In the Croatian state administration, there are many members of the national minorities who have been admitted without calling for rights. They were accepted because they met the conditions because they were good at the competition and did not consider it necessary to appeal to the right of the championship. We need good officers, professional people, and everyone is welcome, and we are certainly willing to respect the constitutional law obligations. In the light of this awkwardness that has occurred since the election of the Council of National Minorities. Indeed, many people are involved in these processes and our electoral administration is doing very correctly. We did very well last parliamentary election. It's also the assessment of the OSCE mission, but sometimes it's such a mess. That shouldn't happen. Education, additional education and the raising of awareness and technical knowledge should be implemented, and such situations will no longer occur. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3702	We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Zdenka Cuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3703	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope the esteemed secretary didn't mean it like he did when he commented on article 22. In fact, you said that many do not refer to this article because they are good because they satisfy their professional equipment, etc. Which would have turned out if those who called on it hadn't. I think you didn't want to say so and I ask you to respect that article 22 is a constitutional category and if someone is calling, they are calling because they only want to have one more plus eventually. But it is known that in employment, however, these very elements of the profession and all other conditions are first, and then the nationality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3704	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3705	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. I am also of the opinion that this Croatian legal standard is when it comes to a national minority at an enviable level. I don't agree with the secretary of state that Croatia, when it comes to minorities, is a model country, as he said, I quote, but that standard is at an enviable degree, there is no one right to doubt it. Croatia was one of the conditions for international recognition and that of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities. The rights that are listed in this constitutional law, in other legal solutions, I am experiencing a civilization standard. Many Western European countries cannot boast of similar legal solutions. However, there was never a disputed norm within us, as a rule there was always a disputed practice. More specifically, as some minority standards apply, which Furio Radin spoke of in front of the National Minority Club. Can a national of Croatian and Serbian gender, for example, come to work on the same condition? Do I not know about any building? Croatian and Serbian nationalities can come to the competition under the same conditions. Whether documents to be issued for example in Vukovar, to be published on Latin and Cyrillic? Is there going to be both letters in one official use in Clay? Whether in Zagreb, under the same conditions, the director of an institution will be able to become German, Serbian, Czech, Jewish, I don't know Roma etc.? Croatia left the war 13 years ago. So Croatia came out of the war where it was a victim of aggression, Vukovar is the best witness, not only Vukovar, but also where some Croatian citizens under the patronage of part of the government also did terrible things to members of, say, Serbian nations and only because they are Serbs. I can mention the Rabbit family, I don't know the murders in Gossić, Pakraska Poljana, and I don't keep counting. In this context, they can also put this Statute of the County of Istria through which we have struggled in time to be divided, that no one counts our blood cells, that we continue to live the way they taught us, that no one determines us by faith, by nation, because whenever someone does so, not only should the citizens of these places suffer but also the spaces themselves. War is clearly a nasty thing. Whether they're looking for someone else, I mean the ones from Belgrade who did it back in the '90s, whether it was some 92s or 93s who were looking for justice for what someone did in 42nd, or found some of their role models in that 42nd. I'm glad that this is all behind us, that today in 2008, we clearly don't need to go back much, it's clear that a war crime should be punished if it's committed by these ground-based passions, he doesn't get old, the rest should be clearly abolized. It should enable the return, return the kidnapping, integrate the war in ruins or affected areas into modern Croatian society, resolve pensions for those who have lost them and continue to live in a way that knowledge of Cyrillics with a latinic letter to say President Mesic will be a quality, not a flaw. That the flag, for example, of the Italian communities, will not irritate anyone at the city palace in Pula, although it will be accepted as Croatia, because we thus express our respect for the minority who remained in the town of 47 out of 35,000 people left them, and that the courts will finally treat the war crimes committed by the Croatian general or the citizen of Serbian nationality who fired at Vukovar, Nustr etc. Someone's gonna say right here, it's easy for you to talk about it, Istria didn't have a war. That's right. But we did everything just the same so we wouldn't be divided. It is also true that the standard that is established today in Istria is being taken for granted, it is something to live with, it may be few today who are interested in our spaces, but it should also be emphasized that nothing is donated to people in that space. All were simply to be elected, including these principles, which are listed on page 11, 12, in this report in the implementation of the constitutional law of the day or on page 11, 12, etc. so it is said that the Office of State Administration in Istria as a body of the state administration of the first degree law in the application of language, letter in the headquarters office in Pula and that I do not now list what they are doing, etc. etc. The truth today is the primary issue of pensions, wages, work, how much I will get if I sell a thousand squares in Vodnjan, whether I will come from the state to the agricultural land so I can plant an olive tree there, that I can run some agricultural activity, what my season will be, how I quote shares of HT, whether I can buy an apartment, but just before, say, 15 years ago, the issue of preserving that minority expression was experienced or experienced for members of national minorities, I would also say essential, existential issues. The questions of staying or leaving, that's the point. I can't say with all the objections I may have to the government, that after that rhetoric, for instance from the Split Riviera, there's not been a very good turn. Minority representatives are included in the executive section, someone will say so even before they were, I don't know Zivko Juzbašić etc. But as it's not good, let's say the minorities supported HDZ's government, so it's certainly good to have them participate in the government. 2003. Sanader supported eight minority representatives. What I confess to the government did on her return, surely, the return to rebuilding needlessly collapsed after "Storm" when 20 thousand kuna were irrevocably burned. Something's been done to punish a war crime. Finally, she was removed from France's Budak, who had no courage to remove the 3rd January power, and what any reasonable irritated, but it is still possible to say that one treatment is, for example, one treatment. someone who declares himself to a minority in Pula or Rijeka, Zagreb or Varazdin on the one hand or in Gospić, Vukovar, Osijek, Slavonski Brod on the other. While in Istria or Rijeka everyone would be ashamed to share people on these or those, Serbs and Croats, Croats and Bosniaks, Croats and Italians, somewhere else as if we were living in this country in '92. A year. And that's why it's good to talk about this report, about these laws. Repeat. We have laws that are above European standards but unfortunately, in many parts of this country it is as if Croatia lives in the early 1990s. As for the 2006 money, it was spent on the €84.6 million budget. That's 110% compared to 2006 or 10% higher. Interestingly, the Italians have 105 classrooms in Istria with 263 teachers and a thousand 523 children. So teacher to 5.7 students, which is commendable. Serbs have only 2,000 301 children in 18 schools. And maybe that's what he's saying about someone's tightness, etc. What remains to be done is that no one shares anyone by race, faith, nation. To enable a return, return... What Gaia spoke of, to overcome the divisions of war. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But not in a way to forget clearly who the victim was, to prosecute war crimes, to make no distinction in employment, to return Slovenians and Bosniaks to the preamble of the Constitution, etc. It's a shame we didn't know how to change the Constitution there twice in 2001, 2002, and that this one, these Bosniaks and Slovenians, didn't come back. What I also want to say is, if we are to talk about real respect or respect for minority standards, if we want to be an example of others, then then, gentlemen, MPs, mainly from the ruling coalition, should be able to give double voting rights to representatives of national minorities. That's the point. Without that standard, the most affected will now be those in this country who have so far represented minorities. It would be fair to say that the interests of the majority are now being taken by minority representatives when they are already working so well with the executive authority of Ivo Sanader. Those who were not only ready to go with those who were not only willing to solidify themselves with minorities, but also sacrifice themselves for these minorities, means those who took numerous blows because at that difficult time they were against politics, division, exclusion, etc. So, no double voice. I argue, elections in Croatia are not clean and fair elections either. Now I should not know, so in some environments, protect most of them from minorities. Clearly not from minorities, but from this political terror of those who are in power in the Republic of Croatia and who in one such perfidious way still today in 2008 share most of the minority or vice versa. So I'd like to know now what this agreement means between minority representatives and Eve Sanader on the double right to vote for small minorities. Since all this was happening in 2007 then I hope that we will get an answer to this question in the 2008 Constitutional Law Implementation Report. So what I am keenly interested in, will this double right of vote be given to minority representatives for the next parliamentary elections? In many countries, minorities are present in parliaments. Not always, but they are. But no one knows the way of the choice that currently exists in the Republic of Croatia. Or you can just choose minorities but you can't choose a list or I don't know, that candidate from another list of Croatian nationalities. Everywhere in the world, there is another principle. If you choose for minorities, you have the right to choose for these lists. If we did that, then gentlemen would affirm those minorities as well. If that doesn't happen, we minorities will continue to be held in a political ghetto that certainly doesn't correspond to minorities. Maybe he's responding to minority representatives. Finally, minority representatives are today I would say because of the way they finance and in a better position than the other MPs, so it turns out that in Croatia it is worth being a minority representative, but certainly not a representative of any minority. What may be my biggest regret means with this double minority right that it is not really ready to face up to and correct the one discrimination that feels that it is present today in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3706	Thank you. As usual, one set of corrections of incorrect allegations. Well, let's take it in a row. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3707	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is not true what counterpart Cain said that the prerequisite for the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia was to pass one such law. It is simply because Croatia is recognised in Europe in '91. And this law was passed much later. And in particular, this needs to be corrected because this in a certain way indicates that under the coercion of Croatia, Croatia has passed this law, not that it has a sincere intention to accept minorities or members of minorities as its citizens, as its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3708	Thank you. The Honorable Vice-President of the House, the Honorable Representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3709	You need to learn. It is false and dangerous that Damir Kajin is under the patronage of Croatian authorities that crimes against the Serbian nation have been committed. It is deeply untrue and deeply dangerous many times already repeated over all these years by the untruth of Damir Kajin, who in this persistent launch in various occasions in the Croatian Parliament and in Croatian political life. His claim is untrue that Croatia's recognition followed by the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Croatia's recognition came as a result of Croatia's European struggle and victory in the Homeland War, the whole of Croatia, not under the pressure of the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3710	Thank you. Correction of Honorable Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3711	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of fellow MPs who said that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is not being implemented in the war-torn areas of Croatia. I come from the town of Pakrac in which the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia began on 1.3.1991, in which more than 400 soldiers and civilians were killed, where the infamous Camp "Buce" was organised more than the normal life of all inhabitants after the military-redral action "Bleak". In the area of the town, or the whole area of western Slavonia, today it is evenly without any incidents and with all constitutional rights living alongside the Croats, members of the three largest national minorities of Serbs, Italians and Czechs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3712	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3713	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I want to correct the claim made by MP Damir Cain, who says, "It is not good that minorities supported HDZ.". This is the expansion of the non-democratic atmosphere because it is precisely true that in a democratic society, communication opportunities are different and that is the meaning of democratic society. That's why this claim is deeply anti-democracy and needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3714	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3715	Thank you very much. I've had a correction to the incorrect allegations of what Mr. Cain said, but I'm pulling it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3716	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3717	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I must correct my esteemed colleague Cain through several false claims that are not true beginning with an eviction claim. It's not true that anyone in this country has been evicting. This is a free and democratic state where anyone can move from and out of. You also made a claim at the end about discrimination against minorities. Well, Mr. Cain, if that's true and if you think that's true then you really have dangerous intentions even though some others have said that we have dangerous intentions because that's what you're saying, then national minorities today wouldn't be an integral part and participated in coalition power because you've denied it in your debate here by calling for the right to double vote by saying that the coalition government takes care of it. Well, the coalition authorities are also national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3718	Thank you. That's what ended the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3719	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Reading this Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the national budget for 2006 for the needs of national minorities, there is no doubt that Croatia is making progress and that this progress has been recorded year by year and by the authorities since 2000 and 2002, respectively, when the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has been passed. Those difficult times I would say, thank God for the sake of democracy, when some other issues were more important and when it was not easy in Croatia to be a member of national minorities, but we also need to remember this occasion for many people in either the system or the nameless of our citizens who, in these difficult times, did not see members of national minorities or majority people but looked at man in every individual. The same was true of such people within the state structures themselves. These are people who have not progressed professionally or careerly precisely because of their principled attitude that even from the very nation and from the very human creations they prefer to be human. Well, these people should also be remembered and watched and represented by their promotions. I think it would be necessary, and I want to point out this too, and this is something that has been announced, and even on our individual issues from the SDP club, and I have personally asked individual members of the government several times, and it has been promised, I think it is important that democracy and human rights are learned from small ones, that this is one subject that is needed almost in kindergartens, in primary school, so that from the young people are not born democratic. It is becoming a democracy, and it needs to be learned in schools as well. We have different subjects and I think that learning about human rights is worth one effort that would have to be introduced through our education system and then the implementation of many laws would have been much easier, so that even a child of little wonder to be different by different basics and, well, national is not some disadvantage as one writer said: "I'm different and in this I didn't see my lack and lack but it was my chance.". So this should be seriously considered and perhaps already because so much has been announced since this fall to begin systematically with human rights education and democracy in our education system since the earliest age. However, here is when Croatia is almost in the finale of entering Europe from time to time our stadiums are able to echo already common songs that no one is looking back on alive or the government is looking back or the matter is minorized and marginalized, and that is not good. That's not good. And when every little bit of media about it does sort of sensitize the public then by the highest state structures we get a promise. This is how the prime minister was announced in 2005 or 06, somewhere in the summer, at a summer session in 8 months, and also under the water of some similar outbursts in Croatia, at a stadium, it was said that, within a very short time, the Ministry of Justice would change the Penal Code in a way that the expansification of fascist and other totalitarian states and systems would be marked, or defined as a criminal offence. Afterwards, however, the matter fell into oblivion and nothing to anyone. Well, here, and I remind you of that obligation... A few years ago, because this is something that Croatia needs, other countries have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've had it well, we've had it in that famous 2003 novel, so that would give us a consensus on a good criminal charge. However, it is important, therefore, that the rights of the minority, not only on the basis of which the law but in what environment they are realized. Therefore, the political climate in which these rights are exercised is very important. It cannot, and this climate is not only created by chance toasting and similar things but by concrete achievement of these rights. Something Gajica also spoke about, he spoke more about property rights, but it seems to me that even more important this one, this one political environment and intolerance when they shout from the stadium such a misdemeanor that it simply cannot and must not be tolerated by Croatia. However, here you see, I will remind you how the Government's office is implementing the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. And I will repeat that until the Constitutional Court resolves this request for an assessment of consent and this is about how we take care of the representation of members of national minorities in representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. After local elections in the town of Zadar, the SDP coalition was due to receive the 12th councilman not by election but by law, under the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and the team would be in the same legal position, i.e. to get the same number of mandates as the HDZ coalition. But it didn't happen, and it didn't happen because this is the kind of opinion that came out of that office and you just don't believe your ears. And I'm going to quote: "The official results of the census are due,...", and now this is, now watch this, this is even better: "... since...", and this is after local elections: "... since the voters' lists are not arranged for the reason that the residence records are not arranged.". So, I'm the one who verified the lists, so you know that you call them when it's generally known that these lists aren't arranged, that we don't have the right records, that they're manipulations with residence. And the Constitutional Court here goes the third year it's full, he hasn't solved it. So, regardless of what is in the law, it is important that we understand the real need for what we wrote to be implemented. So much, therefore, for both that and how we follow our own laws, therefore, that they did not impose upon us, which we ourselves have brought, so do we. Otherwise, we really turn out to be an unserious state, and then we're asked to do something that's not fair and that's impossible, to mention ZERP and things like that. Therefore, we will be serious, we will be appreciated for how principled we are, above all, in respect of the laws we ourselves make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3720	Thank you. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3721	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I don't really know how to define this one, to me a really painful syntagma that was said just before by the distinguished representative Mrs. Ingrid Marinović. Which has actually come to terms with time... about the time of the sacrament of democracy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] In my opinion, it is indeed a painful syntagm which is here, the distinguished representative lady now dares to speak in this way, and I, too, with my own personality, also professional behaviour of duty in the moments when the city of Sibenik was attacked from the land, from the sea and from the air. In moments when the legendary cry: "both two, two", not only knocks down Croatia, it not only knocks down Europe ...but the whole world when [[Time! Time!]] I'm on the only radio... [[Intruder: Time!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3722	Finish your correction, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3723	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3724	Dear MPs, Honorable Commissioner Marinović, there is a Rules of Procedure and you will get your word, but let you not run the session. And if you have an objection, then come in. You've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3725	Mr. Vice President, you keep waiting for this whole minute to expire, determined by the Rules of Procedure. My colleague neither called upon any provision nor spoke of things which I had not spoken of in a word, neither city nor Sibenik nor two. What was she talking about? So don't tolerate it. So we are not allowed here, we must take care of the dignity of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3726	Your Honor, you were supposed to refer to an article that was injured by this one here. And an esteemed representative of the correction of an incorrect allegation does not have to be called. Therefore, if you object to another, you must stick to it yourself. Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague, which is not true as she says this government is not responding to the outbursts of fascism, it's really not true. But the truth is that you do not react to your outbursts in the electoral headquarters when songs are sung, forgive me, glorify the totalitarian regime and reduce the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia by singing from Vardar to Triglav. ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3728	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of the Marash.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3729	Maras Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable colleague of the MPs did not, so the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Article 209 did not correct the incorrect allegations but gave one of her subjective comments about what was going on during one evening. [[Intruder: Maras.]] I don't... [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3730	No, this time it's not true. An incorrect quote has been corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3731	No, but she made a comment. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3732	Let's move on with the debate, distinguished representative Vedran Rozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3733	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Now, with this report in front of me, I'd like to look at a few details that I think are important to the point. The Republic of Croatia is dedicated to protecting and enabling the exercise of the right of national minorities under the constitutional law as a basic document and laws, the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, the Law on Selection for members of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government and other sublegal acts enabling the rights of national minorities. It should be noted that Croatia is among the few countries in Europe that, through the electoral law, allows for a direct choice of representatives of national minorities in Parliament. The protection of rights is not only aimed at protecting languages and letters as an important feature of national minorities but also at protecting cultural diversity and participation in public and political life. The provisions of the Constitutional Law and the provisions of specific laws governing the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities should be interpreted and applied with a view to respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples and developing an understanding of solidarity, tolerance and dialogue between them. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional law of the Republic of Croatia ensures the achievement of specific rights and freedoms of national minorities that they enjoy individually or together with other persons belonging to the same national minority and I would particularly refer to the education and education in the language and letter which they serve, the use of their signs and symbols, cultural autonomy by maintaining, developing and showing their own culture, and the preservation and protection of their cultural goods and traditions. The right to demonstrate your religion and to establish religious communities together with other members and religion as well as access to means of public communication and to carry out the activities of public communication, receiving and spreading information in the language and letter used. Raising and education in the language and letter to be served. The course takes place according to the plan and programme of the Croatian Education and Education System. They achieve their specificities through learning mother tongue and culture or additional content in subjects of language and literature, history, geography, music and art culture. National minorities have the advantage of hiring in the language language of the national minority normally, provided they meet the requirements of school and professional preparation. Minority members have the right to organise institutions in their own language and letter and are entitled to do so by the Italian, Serbian, Czech and Hungarian minorities. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports provided funding for textbooks intended for compulsory education under the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools. For now, textbooks are translated and printed only for the teaching of elementary schools and fostering languages and cultures. The allocation of funds to national minorities in the state budget for this item amounts to 6 million 337 thousand kuna. Use, use of their signs and symbols and cultural autonomy by maintaining, developing and showing their own culture and preserving and protecting their cultural goods and traditions. The constitutional law stipulates that members of national minorities for the purpose of preserving, developing, promoting and showing their national and cultural identity can establish foundations and foundations, as well as institutions for public communication activities, cultural, publishing, museum, archival, library and scientific activities. The Ministry of Culture supports different programmes through regular support programmes in all areas of its work. In 2006, the Ministry of Culture provided 6 million and 600,000 kunas for various types of cultural development and culture for the needs of the national minority in the Republic of Croatia and for the protection and preservation of cultural monuments. There is thought of fixed monuments amounting to 5 million kuna. All monuments are part of Croatian cultural heritage but are also the heritage of the national minorities of the Republic of Croatia whether they are monasteries, episcopic courts, churches or synagogues. Then the right to manifest your faith and to establish religious communities along with other members and religions. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, all religious communities are equal before the law and separate from the state. The religious communities are free to perform religious rituals in public, to establish schools, universities, social and charity institutions and to manage them, and to enjoy state aid in their activities. Churches that have certain relations with the Croatian state receive regular, receive regular annual financial support. In schools they can teach religious and religious education in preschool institutions. A marriage concluded in church form has the effects of a civil marriage. Churches or communities that have arranged relations with the Croatian State as well as other churches that have signed the contract receive regular annual financial support from the state budget. So for 2006 the Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia received 8 million and 593 thousand kuna. The Islamic Community in Croatia 2 million and 618 thousand kuna. Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Croatia 140 thousand kuna. And the Macedonian Orthodox Church in Croatia 604,000 kuna. It is also very important to access the means of public communication and to carry out the activities of public communication, receiving and spreading information in the language and letter used. For software content intended for national minorities, it is distributed to broadcasters 450, 2000 kuna and to publishers of radio activity a million kunas. The Council allocated to a large number of publishers the funds of the Public Interest Fund and is expected to respect the rights of national minorities through these missions. Finally, it is important to point out that the Republic of Croatia also has bilateral agreements with other countries. Namely, the Agency for Croatian Minorities and Immigrants, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration emigration, has taken care of respect for the status of Croatian Autonomous Minorities in European countries and the exercise of their minority rights, monitors the implementation and respect of accepted European standards in countries where they live, supports religious, ethnic, cultural and linguistic self-awareness, and rights to their own cultural life and national traditions. Thus, the Republic of Croatia signed bilateral agreements on the protection of the rights of Croatian minorities with Italy, Hungary, Serbia-Montenegro. Croatian national minority in the Republic of Austria, citizen Croats exercise minority rights based on a 1955 state contract. Also, the foreign and European integration ministry has prepared a draft agreement on the protection of the rights of the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Macedonia. Finally, we can say that for 2006 the budget had previously been mentioned for all these activities was allocated somewhere around 85 million kuna and I would only say that national minorities in each country, and so in the Republic of Croatia should be and are believed in the stability of the country itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3734	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3735	Thank you very much. My colleague, you rightly say that Croatia is a country where representatives of national minorities can directly elect their representatives to the Parliament under electoral law. That's right and that's good. However, you are failing to stress that under the Constitutional Law and under the Croatian Constitution there is another space that has not been used. It's that space that's often wrong, so I'd dare say it and call it a double right to vote on purpose. It is not about any double right to vote, but about the additional right of vote, the right of members of national minorities to choose party lists, civil lists and to additionally, therefore, like all other Croatian citizens, and to additionally elect their representatives. We today have such a situation that is good, that representatives of the national minorities here in the Parliament form part of the parliamentary majority and that they have agreed with the government, that they have concluded with the government a coalition agreement. It's logical, necessary and normal. But this mandate will be a test to see how much, first of all, the HDZ itself, and then to the representatives of minorities elected on minority lists who have entered this House, how much they care about ensuring that this right of additional voting is guaranteed in this mandate for representatives of their minorities or that they care about being elected to this minority list Assembly and that they satisfy their ambitions. This will measure the will, the intensity of political desire, both the government and the representatives of minorities. Are we going to bring this constitutional possibility, this possibility opened by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities to life or are we going to remain at this level which is in any case insufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3736	Thank you. Mr. Vedran Rozic, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3737	So here's the honourable representative I have stated in the statement that the Republic of Croatia is among the small, we can say freely that there are still two, three countries that have an electoral law that representatives of national minorities can directly enter parliament, meaning in the Croatian Parliament. Surely you too had a chance when the coalition government was instigating amendments to the Constitutional Law. However, here I see that from year to year minorities are very much involved in the social and political life of the Republic of Croatia, and the best example is that here are the second mandate representatives of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia taking part in the government and thanks to this participation that practically more and more resources are being allocated from year to year for these needs that we previously cited through the presentations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3738	Thank you. It is Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3739	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen from the government, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say here that I believe that no toasting or shouting stadiums, nor many other statements, no matter how many muskets can reduce the value of this document, or all the good that is stated in this document, and what actually points in the true sense of the word to the true care of the Republic of Croatia. I wouldn't even consider national minorities anyway. But above that, about its citizens, about citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are simply experiencing their own. The second thing, also to be pointed out here, is that not all that seems to be done by the Croatian government for the national minorities here. It is clear that the policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards this problem and according to national minorities is much broader and actually beyond this law which is here and all those rights which are governed by it. This also applies to the means indicated. So, not all the funds that are listed here I've tried to add up these numbers. I think it's somewhere far more than what was actually mentioned here. I think that's about 255 actually millions of total engagements when it comes to national minorities. Of course, however, more funds are being allocated. What's important here for a democratic state. What's the big question? It's simply because it's a state ID, a personal map of democracy, because minorities are a measure of one state's democracy and how one state treats its minorities. So from the question of language, education, the use of signs, symbols, cultural autonomy, religion, means of public communication, or presence in these means and appearance. The implementation of this law is simply an obligation, I have already said more than that. This simply needs to be an absolute normal one attitude of the state towards its citizens. In order to support this, I will actually specify some indicators and why this report actually makes me a really proud and satisfied citizen of the Republic of Croatia and Croatia. If we look at it on page 15, then we will see that where the law provides for it, specifically in the municipality of Iron, where the statute stipulates that members of Serbian nationality as a minority have the right to the official use of language, letters in the entire area of the municipality. They have the right to highlight their flag and symbols together with the flag and coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia in the holidays and holidays, and to constantly highlight them on the building of the municipality of Iron along with the flag of the Republic of Croatia. I think this is really one big thing. Furthermore, if we look at page 16 of this paragraph relating to the use of minority languages in... judicial bodies, then neatly here stands the next finding. He says he is aware of the dangers of assimilation of minority language speakers and in an effort to preserve minority languages as a special cultural value of the Republic of Croatia, in cooperation with the institutions and associations of national minorities, will take measures to protect minority languages and encourage members of national minorities to learn and use their native language in line with the views set out in a specific recommendation from the Committee of Ministers. Therefore, Croatia is not a passive observer here, i.e. the Croatian government and I would say the institutions of this country but, in fact, it cares very much, it is in the interest that national minorities are engaged and that they actually make wealth in the true sense of the word wealth of the Republic of Croatia. Also on page 17 when it comes to guaranteeing language and constitution and letters, pardon me. Then here stands saying the use of minority languages and letters is not in all counties in the territory of the Republic of Croatia equal, that is the answer to those which are not yet satisfied. We all need to be I would say to a certain extent unsatisfactory, because it can always be more and better. But that is no reason to criticize this much good done and this kind of good matter. But it says, by members of national minorities there is no saying, but by national minorities there is no interest in the use of minority language and letter although this right is prescribed by statutes and other general acts. Thus, we also face the fact that people are simply not somewhere to the extent that we expect interested in implementing this law. It is therefore in any case to encourage, however, not a sign of the weakness of the system, the weaknesses of those implementing this law. On page 19, the issue of education of national minorities is regulated and there is also clear mention of everything there is to be and what actually guarantees a full achievement of these rights that I have spoken of. And now I would just briefly look back and make a parallel, given that I was a member of the Committee on Immigration in the past four years of the Croatian Parliament, where I have actually met often with Croats from individual European countries, our neighbours, who have actually shown dissatisfaction many times with what we have actually solved here. I would also invite all of us here and representatives of national minorities, as well as all other MPs, to really take care and actually make one mutual effort for Croatian national minorities in European countries. That's a whole other question, and I'm not going in there. However, I assure you that the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a sovereign nation, although the papers show that they have all these guarantees there, do not have much that the national minorities in the Republic of Croatia actually have here. Not to mention public media issues, language issues, some political representations, etc. I'm particularly interested just as an agent elected to XI. The electoral unit, therefore, is a unit for Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia, that this law is fully implemented and that there are no leftovers. However, to be truly one true and sincere attitude as this government has done so far. It's final. On the 108 pages I think of all those who two are like this or maybe the way we've heard from some here, I think we should read the next one. On the round table on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, organised by the National Minorities Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 15 May 2007, in Zagreb, which was attended by representatives and representatives of national minorities, it was estimated that further progress has been made in improving the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, and in this respect in the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has been stressed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has implemented the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in order to bring real and complete involvement of members of national minorities in public, political, cultural and social life in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this is also a statement by those representing national minorities, and it is not spoken on their behalf. Finally a question to think about. What European country, which is currently a member of the European State and respects national minorities in its territory at this level? Besides, why shouldn't Croatia be better than others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3740	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3741	Thank you very much. Very briefly, my friend Bagaric, who knows that I am in solidarity with him in many of his demands, I would like to say the following. And that is that already members of the national minorities are taking care of Croats outside the country. I have been appealing for 15 years to pass a law on constant care for Croats outside the country, and in addition, in my agreement with the prime minister and wrote and demanded that Croatia deal better and more with Croats in Italy, and I am also very close with them and will continue to deal with them. Secondly, so it doesn't look like the bottle is full, then I'll answer Mr. Bagaric and tell him where she is, I won't have time, but only in a few clues, where she's empty. In the Primorje-Gorski County... meets one electoral unit on bilingualism, but the statute does not prescribe the equal use of minority language in Zadar County legal assumptions exist in one municipality of Gracac, but there is no record of whether this is being realized. [[You don't understand.]] In Lika-Senj County, two Serb municipalities meet the criteria, Donji Lapac and Vrhnik. As you said, there were no demands, but why were there no demands? That's what we need to ask ourselves. Also, in Osijek-Baranja County in municipalities, in several municipalities, e.g. In the municipality of Punovci in which the Slovak minority meets the number criteria, the report says that there is no need for strict application of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters. And we've talked about Daruvar so many times that everyone in this House knows what it's all about. So when we talk about a bottle, we should say that it's half full or half empty. Not full.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3742	Thank you. Answer Mr. Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3743	Mr. President! I thank my colleague Radina and his efforts around the Croatian national minority in Italy are absolutely sincere, obviously and I would say perhaps of crucial importance. Therefore, we call on others, too, to encourage fellow representatives of other national minorities to engage as well in their own, if this can be said to their countries of origin when it comes to Croats outside Croatia. When it comes to this continuation of your answer, then I am absolutely in agreement with you, that actually that bottle that has not yet been completely filled or bottle as you have said needs to be completed, filled. And be sure that both in me and in this club you will have absolutely as much support as ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3744	Another replica, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go1
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3745	Comrade Bagaric! You rightly warn that Croatia should take care of Croats who are minorities in other countries. But you don't agree with the government of Eve Sanader that you support. Namely, you will see it in the budget and in the amendment that I have submitted. Namely, Racan's Government, which you often express a number of objections to, at its 57th session on 30 July 2003, adopted a Decision on the allocation of funds to finance health, education, cultural and scientific programmes of Croatian minorities in neighbouring and other countries and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. To Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are not minorities as we know it was... 25 million kuna has been achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Croats who are minority in Serbia, Montenegro, Slovenia, Macedonia, Hungary, Italy, Austria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Romania and Bulgaria 10 million kuna. On the arrival of Sanader's government, these 10 million kunas have been abolished, not detached from the budget. I, for the fifth year in a row, am sending an amendment to the budget asking Sanader's government to give at least as much for those Croats who are minorities in other countries as Racanov did. ... That's it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I expect you to vote for my amendment when it is voted on Wednesday. And it will be a test of your honesty when you advocate Croatian minorities in other countries. But it will also be a test of this government, as much as it cares about Croats who are minority in other countries or are only Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are not minorities. But who, of course, can vote in the elections for this government. Therefore, I agree with you, but you disagree with the government of Ivo Sanader. But do you agree with yourself, we'll see Wednesday when the amendments are passed?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3746	Thank you. Answer Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3747	First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Stazić for taking care of the Croats outside Croatia and any representative who is performing and speaking on this topic. Especially if that concern is sincere and it has a real purpose for what it says. However, I will not vote for your amendment. I'll tell you why. Because it is not true that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or Sanader, as you have said, does not allocate funds for national minorities and Croats outside Croatia to the extent that you speak. You don't talk to anyone, but it's five times that. Take a look at the few items relating to the education of our people in the world, and among the national minorities learning language, culture, then direct support, the support of national minorities plus the Emigrant Mother also directly sets out for Croatian national minorities. I agree, I agree, that the detachment to the needs could be even bigger. However, I do not accept as a Croat who comes outside Croatia to see Croatia as a milk cow from which to take as much as possible. But we should simply respect the needs here because we see here and in this budget that we talked about a few days ago how many more holes we need to bury, shut up. And how many items are all people asking for money? So we're not in a position, and I don't think we should be in a way that we should take if we have a hand to take more than that. Therefore, I will not vote for that amendment. But in any case, I support and call on all those interested in supporting Croats outside Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3748	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3749	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I come from Vukovar-Srijem County, I come from the city of Vukovar, the greatest victim in the Homeland War. In Vukovar, 3,000 people were killed and killed, several thousand ended up in Serb concentration camps and the self-defense of Vukovar and the prisoner of Serb concentration camps, nine months in Nis, Mitrovica and Aleksinac. And after all, I have the strength to talk about the rights of national minorities where I support the Croatian government and I support the law that has been prescribed for national minorities. The Vukovar-Srijem County has provided funds for the work of national minorities. And that means of carrying out administrative work and the means to carry out the activities. The Council of the Bosniak National Minority 90 thousand kuna. That's why I wish Mr. Tankovic were here, and he is. I think you can still see that our county is thinking, but you're not forgotten. The Council of the Hungarian National Minority 105,000 kuna. The Council of the Russian National Minority 108 thousand kuna. The Council of the Slovak National Minority of 96,000 kuna. The Council of the Serbian National Minority of 160 thousand kuna. Representative of the Roma national minority 4000 and 500 kuna. I think it's small, but I think next year we're going to increase it. A representative of the Ukrainian national minority of 12.5 thousand kuna. A representative of the Albanian national minority 13 thousand kuna. Then the city of Vukovar in its budget secured for the Council of the Serbian National Minority 25 thousand kuna. For the Ukrainian National Minority Council, 25 thousand kuna. And for the Council of the Hungarian National Minority 25 thousand kuna. These councils are founded and we support and finance it. Then I'd like to say one more thing about employment. Dr. Franjo Tudjman's decision is that all those who worked in occupied areas to keep those jobs. And yes, we respected it and normally that today some things remain the same, we haven't changed anything. Just to say that national minorities are represented and in employment as Mr. Gajica spoke Posto Borovo's settlement 75% has Serbian national minorities employed, Post office Vukovar 47% has Serbian national minorities employed, Vukovar 70% Serbian national minority, Tax Administration 50% of the Serbian national minority, City Water Company 47%, Chazmatrans 70%, Komunalac 29%. This shows that Serb minorities are not threatened and God forbid and I think Mr. Gajica said in his presentation. And I don't agree that in our local administration, three employees should still be employed at 32%, but they have raised that these three employees must be employed and we do not ask that there be reciprocity here if there is 4.5% of the Serb national minority then and here 70% is employed. But let's, that's the wish Dr. Franjo Tudjman was also Croatian government and we respect it, there are no others. Then, I still have to say what the Croatian state is. We have a director who was in Boro's radio, he usurped a factory in Sombor. He now blocked the entire property of Borov, which is worth 80,000 euros in Serbia, not 80m euros. And recently, 15 days ago, he was invited to be handed over keys to a renovated apartment. He came in neatly with sombor registrations, and he was handed the keys, and eventually he put down the blinds and went to Sombor. Here, and that's democracy. Look, we, if a man is right and it's democracy, of course. Next, after this concern we've seen states for national minorities, I'd talk about some other things. I wonder why, in addition to all this, the students of the Serb national minority and for what reason they break glass, doors, windows, demoralize the student home, the schools they attend. If this is only because the school is Croatian, they are Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens, but they bring fear and hatred to Croatian children. And who taught them that? Who taught them to curse the father of the Croatian homeland Dr. Franjo Tudjman who left everything for them, and schools, and kindergartens, and democracy that their parents can live from their work? Who gave them the pain? Who taught them to shout "This is Serbia! Yugoslavia, Yugoslavia! Kosovo, Kosovo!". No more gentlemen of Serbia, this is the Republic of Croatia recognised within its borders by international factors. There are no gentlemen or Kosovo in Vukovar in schools. A peaceful reintegration must be noted that it was carried out without one incident, that Serbian children learn in Serbian schools, normally according to the Croatian programme, that kindergartens are separated, too, to learn the same according to the Serbian programme. That's how we took it all apart, that's how their politicians were looking normally. Until this time, if Stanimirović The military our representative could go with Croatian children, with Croats in the class, the Croatian Democratic Community advocates that today everything, both national minorities and all together go to one class, not to separate children. If I could play football, basketball, volleyball, handball together, then why can't we go to school together and it wouldn't come to this breaking, these vandals, it wouldn't come to those, I mean, far less would there be those differences. The Croatian Democratic Community will also continue to seek that from kindergarten, from primary schools, from secondary schools, children go together. There will be fewer incidents and I think so. Why are children looking for work in Vukovar or somewhere else in Croatia after completing college in Belgrade or Novi Sad? And when he gets the job, then they don't mind working with the Croats, sharing offices. Then they don't mind, they don't ask that they must separately be Serbs from Croats. And today in the workplaces where they work, it doesn't bother anyone. And, of course, that's how we want to improve co-existence. But I'm saying there are the least incidents in Vukovar. What's happened and everything but there are at least incidents. And in the end, we build co-existence but love takes two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3750	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Mr. Agent Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3751	Thank you very much. Mr. Mlinarich, about the part where you talked about the incidents I wouldn't want to comment on because it's too high to say that no one agrees with the incidents on either side they came. We have manifested ourselves in the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and around the incident of another nature, on the other hand, and we have always condemned them, condemning these. What I'm replicating you for is something else we might have to start thinking about. It is always said that schools for national minorities practically separate them. We in Istria, Istria had, was not always as it is today. After the war, it was a completely different situation. In Istria we had schools in Italian, schools in Croatian. Over the years, it has volunteered that today the Croats are coming to our schools, some Italians are going to Croatian, and this is happening quite spontaneously. Let's not ignore the fact that minorities have the right to their schools and in time it will show that integration will take place, but integration needs to be done in order to say by practice, not by saying now they must all be together. Let's have some time, and it won't take as long as it might take in the past. It'll be faster now, but let's give it some time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3752	Thank you. Mr. Mlinaric's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3753	Mr. Representative, I agree with you, but since there was no war on you, there was no crime, there was nothing we wanted here since even before the war the children went together, they were never separated. Now, after the war, it suddenly broke apart. That it was as before as it was with you, maybe then. ... No, there isn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3754	Thank you. Replica Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3755	Comrade Nenadic, you are rightly speaking and telling exactly how in Vukovar, I don't know, the number of members of Serbian nationality is employed in the post office. That's right. But then you're also talking about these incidents that, of course, we all condemn. However, Vukovar is still a divided city, it is divided by a national basis in cafes, as we see it is divided into a street among children. And it's divided because those who don't work in the post office or in any state service have nowhere to work in Vukovar. In Vukovar, this co-existence will not be resolved properly until Vukovar is helped differently. By helping, by bringing the economy to Vukovar, by strengthening e.g. The only ports out there are doing something right now. That's where the mass of production plants went down, people lost their jobs, and they're actually desperate. They have nothing to do there but their nationality. The government, the parliamentary majority you belong to, can help Vukovar in another way to do what he hasn't done for five years, in a quality way. To help him economically, and then these national tensions will certainly decrease, because people will start doing their jobs. Today, they unfortunately have nothing to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3756	Mr. Mlinaric's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3757	One part I agree with Mr. Representative, since Mr. Stazic comes often to Vukovar, he knows a lot of the situation. But I have to say, here, maybe many don't know, that the government gave up its share of 200 million kuna a few days ago of selling apartments that it's all going to the city of Vukovar, for infrastructure, for new social housing and for one part of the economy. So, I think there's gonna be some things. And we're trying, we're working together for co-existence, because co-existence has to be whether or not some crimes are committed, then there's a power that has to sanction it. But we will continue to fight for co-existence and for this part, let Mr Furio Radin not be human, but we will strive to make children go together to avoid these incidents. Get your parents to bring the kids to kindergarten together and then go for coffee and drinks later. And one Serb national minority, one Croat and together go after, but their children can't go to kindergarten together.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3758	Thank you. It's Mr. Sima Luchin's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3759	Thank you very much. Here, I'd like to join this debate with a few notes, not to comment. I have to say in the beginning that I feel a little uncomfortable when we talk about the rights of national minorities, then we bring it into context, I don't know, some European standards, and we say that we are the strongest, the best in Europe. Well then, then, I don't know, we compare it, we compare it to the position of Croats in some other countries. We're either talking about just acting this way or respecting those rights because the government is asking us to, or because that's what Dr. Tudjman. It just doesn't seem like you understand the essence of things here. Until in the Croatian Parliament and in Croatia politics, not only in politics can one thing be understood. And that's that the majority politician and the majority people for minority rights are fighting for their own right, or for their own sake, I don't think we're going to go far, we're not going far. I am pleased that this report says that these shifts have been made. But I'd like to see what your moves are like. You can't see from that report. My colleague Mlinaric says that, therefore, they haven't changed anything from Erdut, it's a disaster for me. So, from what President Tudjman asked. If nothing has changed in Eastern Slavonia, I know that something has changed, then it is a very bad message for you. Then what it says in this report doesn't fit the facts. Because if a shift is made there, and we hear there's nothing changed, I guess Mr. Mlinaric thought it hadn't changed in a negative sense, and I guess that's like a big success. So, I'm going to join those who think it's unserious to discuss 2006 in this high house. And that we discuss, that we discuss, in this way, in this way. So I really think that we should show that we hold on to this topic enough or as long as we should keep it in a way that we can get in some prime time a few months after that period that the report tells us to get it on the bench. Because the situation is probably different today, maybe even better, I don't know, and maybe worse. Why don't I know? Because it seems to me that the methodology that put this council together, which is neither similar nor adequate for the debate we are discussing. So the very methodology of content that is there, it is not to be combined with certain indicators. So, I'd like to, so we mentioned this Erdut, I'd like to see, not just for Eastern Slavonia, but for all of Croatia, what it's done, here's 10 years passed from 98 to 2008. At least numerically. So maybe we could get a qualitative and quantitative picture. There's no picture of you like this. Proposers may have noticed that most of the advocates who spoke were, in fact, mostly talking about an area and space that was not the subject of the Constitutional Law but was part of something else. So, life, social life, it stops, etc. Maybe you should even consider actually having a minority position and minority rights debated in one whole, in one package. I'm actually curious about what's in that area, what's done in that area, I'm doing it here, I don't actually see it here. I'm very happy when I read there, I don't know the list of municipalities, cities and county, is there, where there's a stamp on the Cyrillic. But I'm interested in whether I don't know in one Pacrac or Iloku there's an officer who knows the Czech Republic or an official who knows Slovak when the Czech or Slovak come for some rights, to start only in the city administration, or the municipal administration, anyway, self-government, that he can exercise his rights in his own language. That's what I'm interested in. That's not there. I can't agree, I can't agree to the finding that was made in this report, which is that units of local self-government haven't regulated and harmonised their statutes. That they don't receive or hire under the law because they don't have any money. It's none of my business. The units of local self-government are not responsible for this law. This is the law for which this Parliament is responsible, or specifically, the Government. And if there's no money, he needs money. If the statutes are not harmonised, then the office must react and request that these statutes be brought into line. So there are mechanisms, but obviously there is a significant difference, a significant difference between what's written on this, in this paper than what's actually happening and what's happening on the ground or in practice. So the facts where bilingualism is used, where symbols are used, I don't know how many people work for minority representatives or minority members in state and local administration. It's OK, it's a fake. But I don't know if he's increased or reduced in the next three years. It's probably increased when they're here, when it's written that progress has been made. Here I am interested, I don't know how many customs officers, police officers, state lawyers work in Croatia today. We have that data, but compared to some time, are they members of the national minority? It's actually going to be, it's going to be a real indicator of success or failure. On several occasions, there was one conclusion that perhaps we should imagine. I think Mr. Secretary of State himself said at one point that this part of the members of the national minorities that they are is not so declared. Perhaps we should ask ourselves why these members of the national minorities who are officials in the MUP, the MORH, might not want to make a statement in the government and not plead as members of minorities. Now whether they are so aware that I say so or whether they exercise their rights in a way that most citizens of the Republic of Croatia consider it irrelevant or if there is something else. So that's one piece of analysis that makes the real analysis that I'm supposed to be, that I miss. It's interesting that in fact no topic in this report which is unacceptable to me again is difficultly processed. Or we don't actually see that there was any problem in 2006. There are two or three things mentioned here and there. Inaccurate, not enough, not true. And why, why are we afraid to say that there were excesses and that it was done to make, I don't know, that it wouldn't be, that it wouldn't have come. And I see that time is running out and something that's actually the worst in this report. That's the conclusion. Look, you have a page, you have a keycard of the conclusions you can't see anything from. There's one single sentence. He says, "The government will do everything in its power to further improve the position of minorities in Croatia or to implement the Constitutional Law." What will it do? Look, if we get this report again, I don't know, we're not actually gonna see anything from it. And one more sentence. When it comes to the participation of minorities in representative bodies, I think now is the time to talk a little bit about another topic or a little bit different. If we have achieved a degree and if we have made such progress as colleagues on my left say then perhaps we should think about something that strong democracy, countries with a high degree of civilization have long applied and that is so-called. positive discrimination. Well, then we might as well head for a double or extra vote. That's one, one of the basic stories. So I can say I hope that this topic will come to the agenda of this House and that we will discuss it. I am convinced that the SDP will support the double right to vote. And unlike Mr Cain, I don't think it's bad that the representatives of minorities in this House are with HDZ or with the parliamentary majority. I consider it responsible, as brave, because they estimate that in such a way they will achieve quite, or necessary, representatives of minorities, or those representing them. But normally in that way they assume all the responsibility that the government and the job bear.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3760	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Tomislav Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3761	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I'd like to correct the inaccuracies of my fellow Lucin who said there are no shifts in this report. Here's a specific example of the city of Knin. I'm from the city of Knin. So the city of Knin is a city that has ensured representation of representatives of the Serb national minority in the city's headship in accordance with the provisions of Article 22. The constitutional law and on the basis of this amendment, we are the first city to have a mayor from the ranks of the Serb national minority, and thanks to this cooperation, we are a town that can boast and we have no international incidents. In his presentation, my colleague Lucin also wondered what the municipality and the town with the seal on both the Cyrillic and Latin, so I will give an example of the municipality of the diocese next to Knin which Article 9 prescribed that the municipality had a stamp written in both Latin and Cyrillic letters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3762	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3763	Thank you very much. Apparently, my colleague wouldn't listen to me. I actually spoke affirmatively and said the following.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3764	You cannot correct and comment through an infringement of the Rules of Procedure You can't! [[Intruder: But if he's a colleague]] You can't! [[Intruder: Injured the Rules of Procedure]] You can't, you didn't even say that. [[Intruder: Article 209]] You can't! He was correcting your claims. You can't, you can't! [[/Intruder: Give the president, Vice President, until this one changes.]] You can't, we can't. [[Intruder: What's the name of the Rules of Procedure, let us go a little bit more.]] We can't. Thank you. ... [[Come on!]] Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And creative and pro-creative. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3765	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Lucin said that this report is flawed because it does not show the structure of individual national minorities or how many national minorities are represented in, I don't know, customs, police and so on. So I'm just thinking the other way around. So it's not true and it's not missing this report, therefore, and it would be me thinking of negation of the protection of national rights or the protection of national minorities that here the government's office or government insists that people plead not to know what nationalities are and that they are collected by the key here too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3766	Thank you. And a respected representative, Bozica Solic, is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3767	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is listening to Mr. Lucin, and I have followed and understood well when you said that the government is not doing enough to implement this law and that practically nothing in this report is apparent, there is no improvement for national minorities. That is not true, Mr. Representative, because it is the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of the Constitutional Law for National Minorities that you have brought it in, but you did nothing absolutely when you were able to in four years, and the Government has just increased the funds by 110 percent on that Constitutional Law. It also organised the Government of the Republic of Croatia and funded courses, seminars for national minorities so that as much as possible could be used in an adequate way for the rights of national minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3768	Thank you. Replicated representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3769	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Lucin rightly said that local self-government can't be guilty. Of course, I will do this from the perspective of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and Istria County, which in its statutes is all that the rights of minorities have implemented and, in some ways, has gone further, because in both Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County, no one has ever asked anyone what nationality you are, but if you know how to work, whether these conditions correspond to the tender that was held. And what I would do now if you would allow me to protest and please do not ever again in the Croatian Parliament that any MP in this case, a HDZ colleague, says that Istria was not at war. Istria is part of Croatia. Primorje-Goran County is part of Croatia. They were at war on behalf of all those Homeland War fighters from Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County whose response to mobilization in the Homeland War was over 99% please don't say that anymore. Croatia was at war as far as I know. Istria is part of this Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3770	You've got something wrong. Please! Please, not my colleague Denon. Please, you can't take the right word for it yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3771	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3772	MP Mlinaric said there was no war in Istria, there was no Istria not affected by the war. In Istria, on the territory of Istria, not that it wasn't Istria in the war. That's a huge difference. The sequel to the replica. War events were not in the Istria area. Here's Sime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3773	My colleague Denon, in fact, I wouldn't engage in this controversy if Istria were at war or not. Well, that's what we all know she was. That's not controversial. However, I am concerned about the rhetoric of war and war crimes and suffering when we talk about national minorities. I don't know why we talk about crimes all the time. Are we looking for some kind of excuse? It's a very bad message, as far as the local self-government unit is concerned. Look, it's not the same situation everywhere. Let's say in Knin where the strong coalitions are. There you can happen to have two mayors and several headmasters more than the Rules of Procedure, pardon the statutes. Therefore, it depends on the middle to the middle and I ask and it would be good for my colleague Denon and we will all be more pleased to get at least a level of report on this topic that goes to Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3774	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3775	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. National minorities usually call for their diversity, primarily called for culture, identity, preservation of cultural heritage, but as far as I heard today, none of the MPs mentioned it. Obviously everything's fine. Obviously, everyone is satisfied, so I won't talk about that segment either, but I'll join all those in this assembly who say we really have quality minority legislation. But equally, this legislation is not fully implemented, and most of the problems are currently at local level, because we have also had the opportunity to hear but also in the report to read that many units of local self-government have not yet harmonised their statutes, have not brought employment programmes to national minorities where this employment is relatively impaired. I will, however, address one problem that the Czech national minority has because I speak for myself, and as a representative of the Czech minority, I certainly have the right to repeat it here. Namely, the right to the private and public use of minority language is completely free and is not subject to legal regulation. Unfortunately, it is at lower levels of the mustache with equal official use of minority language both in front of the authorities of the state administration and in front of the bodies of the units of local self-government and the regional administration, as regulated by the Law on the Use of Minority Language. So it happened that in the Statute of the city of Daruvar, I quote: “The Czech national minority is allowed to use the Czech language in the territory of the whole city of Daruvar. ” Which one? Public, because the official isn't prescribed. When the Law on the Official Use of Minority Language and Letters was adopted in this Chamber, it was again stated: “All rights of minority members acquired on the basis of the international contract and the legal order of the country of principal, or those that were fulfilled by the regulations that were valid until the entry into force of this law, are recognised. Analysing the use of the language of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, it can be established that given the rights acquired to use their language, the position of the national minority is recognised by the Czechs, Hungarians, Russians, Slovaks and Italians. By joining the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to applying this Charter to those minorities and the Serbian National Minority. Indeed, it continues that the right to use its language is different in its scope until then, whether it is necessary to level it and that it is necessary, for these reasons, to establish that the content of this right is also an international obligation which, through the statutes of the units of local self-government, cannot ensure its uniform achievement throughout the area and therefore, and also on the basis of Article 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that official use of language or letter must be regulated by law. This is exactly what is legal in the constitutional law, i.e. in particular in the Constitution of Article 4(6) and in the Law on the Official Use of Minority Language and Letters, and I will quote it one more time. This law does not alter or abolish the rights to use the language and letters of national minorities acquired under the rules applicable until the entry into force of this law. ... The Czech national minority has requested the use of Czech language throughout the town of Daruvar. [[You don't understand.]] Since the town's statutes are official use of the Czech language, it has approved only in certain settlements of units of local self-government, calling for one third of the Czech population. The Central State Office was obliged to carry out surveillance and respond to the request of the Czech Council that has never been done, but we find the opposite answer in this report on pages 17 and 18 where the acquired right of the Czech minority is denied. Not only have the facts not been established, because it would appear that the Czech minority of bilingualism had in the statutes not only 84, but also in the statutes of 74 and earlier, as well as that the Regulation on the way and conditions of use of the language and letter of nationality of 81 did not prescribe lower acts than the statutes, referring to local communities and SIZs to what is being called here, but that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also answered my parliamentary question which was signed by no other than by Prime Minister Sanader, so I will quote exactly the answer to my representative question. During the period until 93, local units were authorised by the statutes in their fields to prescribe the official use of the minority language and it is further stated that certain minorities were entitled to do so. It is said in which municipalities of the Italian minority, in which municipalities and cities of the Hungarian minority, that the Czech national minority has exercised the right to use their language in the following cities and municipalities, I will not read them all now, but among other things, Daruvar, Bežanovac, Končanica etc. I cite this for a reason that not every office can interpret rights in its own way. I think that's inadmissible. It's unacceptable because it's hypersensitive questions to have so many different interpretations. On the one hand, the Government which answers our question, on the one hand, documents that really point to acquired rights because it is regulated in the Charter of Regional Languages and Minority Languages, where the Czech language is precisely on the basis of the meanings of the rights acquired and the Republic of Croatia is being installed there and protected. I'm sorry that this is happening, and I have to say, and I'm even more sorry that it's in the Constitutional Court. But let me say something about other rights of national minorities about what may not be good, because I said at first clearly what is good, about it here today, we don't talk much. Here my predecessors have already mentioned that access to means of public communication, above all to electronic media, is clearly done enough to make it the basis of the law. It is clear that the laws are good again, it is regulated by the Law on Croatian Television as a public institution, as well as by the Law on Electronic Media, it is regulated by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities where exactly what the media at the local level is obliged to do. Unfortunately, it still seems very little, or even when it comes to minorities, it is not in minority languages. When we asked, because I have to say that I was one of those who was involved in the adoption of all these laws, when we talked about the presence of minorities in the media and informing minorities, then we wanted first of all to be in minority languages just to preserve language as the basis of cultural identity and everything that comes out of it. I would also like to say something about the function of resuscitating the Council of National Minorities, normally from material conditions for work to involvement in the work of the body of self-government. It is completely different from the municipality to the municipality, from the city to the city, somewhere their role is marginalized, not recognizable, not incorporated into the statutes. The means to work shall be determined. Unfortunately, here it is said, someone mentioned hundreds of thousands. No, unfortunately, there are those where it's only 2,000. But I think it's a fundamental problem in our minorities that we don't distinguish funds for work, funds for cold drive from funds for programmes, because that's exactly what constitutional law does. Therefore, the means of work should be even when thinking about exactly the cold drive, i.e. from offices, telephones, etc., and programs that have better programs should have more resources, not getting into how many minorities there are. Because we must begin to get used to getting closer to the European Union, that the European Union does not know the chieftains, that the European Union does not know minorities in this way. He knows the quality programmes of these minorities who will be ready to finance and through this he will also approve of what is good for us to finance, but not without programmes and without what will contribute to the quality of national minorities. And normal for the end. It is important to point out that I did not speak here about the education of minorities, that the problem in the education of teaching staff is not enough, that measures really need to be taken for the official use of minority language and that someone finally takes care to comply with the statutes and ultimately enable speakers of minority languages to be recognized and significant presence on public television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3776	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3777	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. Introductoryly, let me just say that I am a member of this committee, which I am extremely pleased with and wanted to be a member of the Committee, so I thank all those who voted for me to be on that committee. How important is the problem we are dealing with, how important is the Committee visible among other things today and by the number of MPs, by the number of discussions, by the number of replicas and by the correction of incorrect allegations, etc. But I actually reported that as a representative of a local environment, and I come from Bjelovar, I am telling you that we have succeeded in reviving, implementing this constitutional law to make a quality step. So I'm going to start by saying that the town of Bjelovar totals 131 thousand kuna for national minorities and I am pleased to conclude that it is more than any other city and municipality in the area of Bjelovar-Bilogor County and in the follow-up of the consideration of Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil's distinguished representative, I must say that we are also funding programmes along with this part of the cold drive to finance the programmes. In my opinion, it is a more important practice in the work of the City Council and the City of Bjelovar, where representatives of the Council of the Serbian National Minority, the Roma national minority, the Albanian national minority, the Czech national minority, are involved, of course, with representatives of the Youth Council and civil society associations. I find that a significant step. And we consider it a positive practice and we're doing it not only now but we've been doing it for a year and a half. What is also extremely important, and what is really the most life-saving thing that depends on the fates of many people is the fact that members of national minorities Serbs, Slovaks, Hungarians and Slovenians work in the city administration. It is a very interesting event that we are having in Bjelovar, which is the Evening of National Minorities. And I must say that actually the majority of the people in the city of Bjelovar are looking for the organization and implementation of the Evening of National Minorities as one traditional manifestation far more than the national minorities are asking for, which I am data enough for myself to say. Since, I've been meaning to speak for a long time but I don't want to repeat myself and I don't want to abuse your time since some of the findings have already been made. I have to say that personally from experience in the work of local administration and self-government, I have to say that there are so-called. objective problems such as the problem of space for the work of national minorities but there are subjective problems, because I still feel that those representatives of national minorities in one environment with an exceptional reputation and exceptional importance in that environment are sometimes reluctant to engage in the work of the national minority they belong to. But we all have to work together to make a step there. I would conclude with one finding that I am sure is absolutely correct, which is that in fact the wealth of national minorities, the presence in everyday life and work, the right to cultivate their own customs and traditions more speaks about the majority people about less about national minorities. I fully support this report as well as the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this domain, which is what we are actually proving to be a part of already in this segment and a civilised and civilised Europe to which we are seeking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3778	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3779	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, members or representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Let me say a few words about this problem. By reading this report, I can conclude the following. Above all, the position of the Council of National Minorities in the environments where national minorities form an absolute and relative majority, I think it is necessary to look at and examine the legal solution because there are also certain illogicalities. The example works in cities or towns where the number of members of national minorities is between 500 and 1,000 has 15 members of the National Minority Council, and between 2 and 3 thousand have 10. First of all, it's illogical even if it's 10 because it happens that they're not members of the same political option that we specifically had in the area of the municipality where I live, so there was one stalemate position of five-five. I think these things need to be corrected in an analysis of the law's implementation. Another moment I'd like to point out very briefly. We have been discussing this problem for a long time, representation in the authorities of the administration, executive bodies and representative bodies. Let me cut this short. In personal experience, this can be said that a capable and valuable official in the city and municipal administration can certainly be more helpful to members of the national minority, more help than two or three council members or a member of the headship, especially if these are in opposition. I don't think it's necessary to elaborate it in detail, even though I don't agree with that and in advance rule out any possibility that someone should be fired for hiring someone from the national minority. Nor am I in favour of opening a job and funding by taxpayers a new job that will at least be 60, 70 to 100 thousand kuna. And have that clerk call us there. I would rather help with these money in this case to members of national minorities, so I would pay them 50% of the costs of the water connection or others if they already have those funds. So I'm not up for it either. But I am in favour of the government, or central state office, controlling above all that these environments are bringing in a employment programme and controlling the implementation of this. If you have to wait a year or a year or a half or two years somewhere, and where there are more employees, I think there are labour fluctuations there, then you should hire a member of the national minority to the job. But that's where the problems arise, because they're terribly high pressures. Then we know how it works for not having a job. These jobs in these bodies are interesting, etc. And there should be a battle that when an opportunity arises, a representative of the national minority can be hired. And finally, the third thing I wanted to talk about was two more words, three more. Thanks, above all, to the Budgetary Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been provided with large funds and is spent on the activities of national minorities. The role of the Council for National Minorities is absolutely to be highlighted, because the distribution within national minorities or within and civil associations of national minorities is not easy and easy to make because this advice often has to and certain horns in a bag to make it right, because there are different political options within national minorities, and there are major problems. But indeed, they are extremely correct and professional. And finally, when they look at these data, they go somewhere over 85 million, it's just funding these National Minority Councils close to 15 million kunas. I would be particularly interested if a report were to be drawn up and I am stressing again on these councils where, in most of the working content of this past period, one mandate has been passed quite concretely what they are and how they have contributed to the improvement of the position quite specifically to this council. What was the decision and even the council of national minorities at the county level. It's not small money that's being spent, and in particular to me, it's a pretty well-known situation down in the field, really what this particular job is. And I have a feeling and I'm going to end up with a lot of things, a lot of funding for a certain and political peace, but peace has no price, so I'm pushing for that to be taken care of. And perhaps more attention should be paid to and channel certain resources into content, meaning in those areas where minorities live. I don't think about urban environments now because it's impossible, where minorities live, where there are resources and that this development is the overall economic and infrastructure aid because it will be the greatest aid to these national minorities. And I mean, now I have to be a little bit and maybe subjective to the Baranja team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3780	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3781	Thank you very much. I'll take a few personal views. I don't speak in front of a national minority club or in front of a board, I speak for myself. And I'd like to say something that maybe even the other representatives of national minorities, maybe not everyone else is sharing with me. Maybe, maybe not, we'll see about that in the future. First, I don't think the issue of national minorities is just a question of culture. It's not just a matter of human relationship to those who are different. The issue of national minorities is also a political issue. He's a political issue everywhere, he's a political issue in us too. And those who do not approach this problem as a political problem in my opinion are wrong. This is a political problem for a number of reasons, for reasons of the past as minorities have arisen in Croatia, for the reasons that they contribute to this government, for the reasons of tomorrow how important they are along with others to join Europe. And I agree with you colleagues, entering Europe and Europe must actually be the idea of a guide that must guide us in relation to national minorities, which must, of course, be protected because they are in Croatia. But soon, we, our fauna, our flora, our fish, will all be regulated together by European laws. In my opinion, that's good. I'd like to talk first about two bribes running through here in the entire debate. And almost without exception, maybe fellow Lucin went off track, a little closer to what I might want to say right now. The myth is that it's good normative and practice is not. And the other is the myth that they're good donations. I claim that practice is not good, but I also claim that it is not good enough or normative. When I say that, then I'm saying something that I've been involved in all these years for which I have a responsibility because only I and a few others in this House, one of the chairmans at this point is colleague Shakespeare, knows how many compromises we've come to, we all come from minorities and when we've passed constitutional law. The constitutional law that the minorities wanted and the constitutional law that was then passed are two different constitutional laws. We've also voted for this one, so we have a responsibility, but I want to say that it's not as perfect a constitutional law as it says in this House, especially in the section of the National Minorities Council. Our proposal was far better, far different,... The Venice Commission, it was a proposal of minority self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But he didn't pass. Not to mention other laws on language use, education, employment. Employment in state institutions in local areas is still one unknown, so we now have to deal with it in bilateral and multilateral terms, so I say agreements with each prime minister. I claim that the laws in our country need more work, but as was the password of the HDZ that I don't take on as my own but here, again, I return it to "Let's move on!" Well, I guess in the future it'll be better. It's a good donation. National minorities for specific areas in Croatia receive slightly less than 6m euros. If these are good donations for 7.5% of the population, for their specific needs, then my hands fall short of disappointment. I'll just say some comparative data. Slovenians in Italy who are between 40 and 80 thousand have never wanted a census, so they do not know exactly, they have 10m euros. Austrians in southern Tyrol not to mention, hundreds of millions of euros have come to them since the return of taxes as a return precisely because they are members of national minorities. Of course, Croatia is a country of different possibilities. Don't ask me how many Croats they get because I'm the only one who deals with these questions. If we were all dealing more with these issues, perhaps the Croats would get more in Italy, but here we will also go further. Good donations so they're not. It's a good increase in donations as a percentage. We have had a strong increase in donations, unfortunately from the government in the 1990s, from the government between 2000 and 2004, to today was a strong increase. That strong increase is a percentage. I hope he continues in the future. Why? Because the base from which it all started, the base was and remains small and let's not. I'm not ungrateful when I say that, but let's not say things that don't exist. Of course we support this government and because this government has taken a major step forward in protecting national minorities. We admit it, not only do HDZ parties recognize it, it admits it and the opposition, I see it in some segments. And I believe it's a fact that anyone can verify. But on the other hand, we must also say that the grants that are received still have to become sufficient, they grow year by year to meet the specific needs of national minorities. Because they started at such a low level that today we have to act this way. With this government, I think we'll be able to find, we're already able to find a common language, we're already able to make it, to be, to be, to be achieved. I just want to say two things about this, one more myth that goes through this House, and that myth is about that in Croatia, this myth consists of that in Croatia the concern of national minorities is better than in many other European countries. I want to argue this, I want to claim that it exists, and we keep forgetting that there are serious historical reasons why Croatia is specific about national minorities. And now I'm going to say something that I want in the spirit of being a soon-to-be part of a great European family, that it doesn't get it wrong. There are no minorities in Croatia that have fallen from the sky, not minorities in Croatia something that has always existed. It is not the minority in Croatia that we have here, so then the same as most other countries we will deal with this problem on the basis of some general principles. Minorities in Croatia differ in two general groups. One is a group of minorities created by changes in borders after II. The World War and that came after what happened after World War II. World War II, members of the national minorities wherever you want to take it, are gone, it's the euphemism you know they've gone, and I'm going to prove that it's euphemism with what's in the magazine, the Italian magazine of panorama... said the following words a few years ago: "Tito, me and Cardellus, sent me to chase as many Italians as possible," so the Italians went, and other minorities also experienced, some and much worse fate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also want to say that the other large group, of the minorities that formed after the collapse, that Federation, that was one, first there was one Federation, and we're a special part of the Federation, then that Federation fell apart, so it's going to say one day in the books, when we're going to get rid of emotion. The Federation fell apart and again by changing the borders of some population became minorities. Here, about these populations, too, these populations are also becoming, a vast majority of trainees, I know, I see, it's red, just one second, a huge part of that population has no blame for what happened here, a huge part of that population, and that's why I just want to say that there are serious structural reasons, I'm talking political about this report, which is why this report has to be problematic and not just analytical, and not just a bug when it comes to national minorities. Because we have our pride and our history, too. Thank you, Mr. Shakespeare, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3782	Please. And by the way, uh, Gilas is your strong witness.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3783	I would ask you not to use your position to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3784	I can comment, if necessary, and maybe sometimes it's necessary. But, okay. Replica. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3785	I would actually like to comment on this observation that it is a question that, indeed, a political question, I think there is no big doubt, replicated it by adding that it is on our occasion and that it would be good to have an open eye to it, a social question as well. We simply have several national communities that could be explicitly identified, I think it is not known that the social position of the Roma community is a key source, I would say, of all the problems that this community can have at all, and it is not our own specific instrument of Croatia. But there's something else that I'm afraid we're closing our eyes on. We have areas that we have called and called out of special state care, an area of Banovina in which the acquisition of all these circumstances is, so to speak, the heritage of the demographic image has been thoroughly changed. And when put into some relationship of national composition and age structure, we come to the disastrous actually position of part of the Serbian national community in that area. We have 12 years in Banja after the storm of a village where there is no electricity, for Croatia it is not acceptable. Priority, order, electrification, arrangements, renovations, etc., was fair in my opinion, but 12 years after the war events there is no reason for anyone to no longer have the elemental conditions for life. Unfortunately, most of the people I'm talking about are nursing households, their children are in Serbia, and I don't know where, they live very hard here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3786	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3787	Honorable Mr. President, esteemed ministers, gentlemen MPs. Here I come from the V. Election Unit, so those three counties of Vukovar-Srijemska, Požega-Slavonska and Brod-Posavina County. And listening to this debate here today, reading this report can determine that the Republic of Croatia is progressing towards achieving high standards in achieving minority rights, I would also say tolerance. So this very debate that is being held here today, in which they are being carried out and minutely, to say the secluded and minutely and the problems of individuals, so... The problems of individual members of the minority community from the problem of infrastructure, as Mr Vidovic said in Banovina, to all other problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in an open debate that is being held today, it is clear that this House is fully open to this debate and the Republic of Croatia is clearly and we all show great, great interest, great interest in this topic. Slavonia and the 5th constituency have always been to say soft to emigrate once rich, always noble. Today, let me put it this way, there is a wealth of the charms of the national minorities that are actually in some way resuscitating. Given the richness of national minorities, I must also point out poverty, which we talked about a few days ago in the gross social product at the rate of unemployment in these three counties, and I think that economic and infrastructure problems are actually generated in some respect and part, I'm just saying part and minority issues. I wouldn't talk about those drastic cases like Mr... It's clear to all of us, so it's out of the paper, so it's clear that I don't like ghettoisation especially for preschool kids. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd be thinking something, so they'd want it to go to the point where the birthplace is separated and so on. Well, it doesn't make sense in the modern world that we're going that far. But I have to say something that, along with the Brod-Posavina County and Vukovar-Srijem, there are therefore numerous national minorities, those who have councils in municipalities and county. The most common are the Serbian national minority Roma, so Roma Bosniaks and Ukrainians. Here, in this table of funds allocated to the State budget for 2006 we have the amount for the Union of Russian and Ukrainians. Most Ukrainians are now living on one occasion to tell a compact area in the municipality or the County of Brodo-Posaviska in part of it. So this is that part of the municipality of Debrina, Sibinj and Slavonski Brod and Bukovlje, Vranovci. Now, come on, those who don't know geographically, but I would still point out those municipalities and those places where they live. In view of the separation geographically between the Russian part located in the Vukovar-Srijem County area and where they have their councils in 3 municipalities, there is therefore one geographical distance but there are certain misunderstandings, including disorganization and what Mr. Luc's disinterest has said to some to be better organised and to achieve both the additional and all the rights that belong to them under this. Nevertheless, national minorities can be a bridge of cooperation towards the peoples and countries in which their majority Corps is therefore. I am convinced that today the Serbian National Council in the County of Brodsko-Posavsko can be in some way a medium that can go towards municipalities in the so-called "Posavsko". to tell Republika Srpska to protect the rights of Croats, those who have remained and very few and those who have returned and there are also few. There is an initiative from me to tell individuals from the Ukrainian societies to establish, establish a much, much, much better relationship. These initiatives also go to the Ambassador of the Republic of Ukraine to Croatia who, and I received information that there is good will. So to connect that part that used to be called Galicia is in Ukraine with Lavova as the capital of the province and therefore with this part of the Ukrainian national minority around Slavonski Brod and even to open the consulate of Ukraine in Slavonski Brod. Why there are these and, for what, why there are objective parameters. Namely, the 5th International Railway and Road Corridor, if someone did not know, starts from Kiev, so via Budapest, Osijek, Slavonia and Slavonski Brod, heads towards the port, Sarajevo is heading towards Luka Ploče. Further in Slavonski Brod there will be Luka Brod which therefore allows a waterway all the way to Ukraine and to the port of Ukraine. Furthermore, a large part of these people originates precisely in the vicinity of Ternopol, Lions and so on. So I think that this kind of initiative is therefore not just a matter of expressing ourselves here and that they are fighting for a table to say some receipts, because even though it is very important for the programme that they are leading through cultural and artistic societies, so either through any cultural, political and other activity than that there are and I say these very, very positive initiatives that I was personally familiar with as a parliamentary representative about and what I will still actually take account of because that kind of initiative I say exists and I think it is very good. So I think that by investing in and better care of the central state, as well as local communities, local administrations and self-government in this area that will improve the economic and infrastructure situation in this area that I was talking about because I can't speak for other areas even though I know the situation, so on these shifts. Furthermore, it is clear that jobs will also be opened for members of national minorities. Because we're already talking loud and clear about importing labour, and here we have people who are unemployed. Therefore, it is clear that if the unemployment rate in Brod-Posavina County and in Vukovar-Srijemska is between 20% and 30% and... We heard some day in the government's opening statement that it is on the Croatian average about 8 to 10% then we see that there is no job for the majority, for the minority, for anyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah? Therefore, this shift in economic and infrastructure movement will result in shifts in these counties and in this electoral unit both in employment and therefore in the social and any other existence of minorities and clearly in achieving and improving their rights and their intentions. Here is an example of the Bebrin municipality in which there is a council of Ukrainians, the Bebrin municipality of Slavonski Brod singles out a thousand kunas for the work of Ukrainian societies. A thousand kuna for the work of Ukrainian societies, a thousand kuna a year. Well, now they've got two Taras Chevchenkos and one more. If out of a thousand kunas they can, a thousand kunas a year. Here you have listed here in or ordered in these materials. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3788	On behalf of the SDP Club, five minutes is the conclusion of Mr. Shime Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3789	Mr. President, thank you very much, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. At the very end of the SDP, the SDP Club has proposed two conclusions that are at the threshold of the conclusions of the Committee on National Minorities and Human Rights. We think, in fact, that government representatives have already said in this first part that there should be no problem. In the SDP, we hold that the position of national minorities is above all a national interest and that this should be a question on which we should always establish an agreement or consensus in this House, so that it would not be a good idea to vote on it, and then also on a story, or a paper such as this report. In fact, the first conclusion is that there is no point in keeping the reports behind us for a year, or that the report should be discussed by June 30th, because 4 ministries, two offices, have already been submitted to the final accounts, thus or will be. So I don't think there's any reason to get it on time. Because if we're going to get 120 and some laws this year that we need to comply with the European Union, I don't see why this can't be done within such a quick deadline. The second conclusion may be slightly modified in relation to what the board has proposed, but it seems to me that one number of debaters have discussed in that direction, and that is that the report should actually be different, at least slightly different. We've even been there, we've been hard to formulate it in the sense that both troublesome and comparatively we can track progress. Because I believe that then we'd have a better discussion and maybe there'd be less room for misunderstanding. No matter what is stated, and in addition to this problem, there should be no emphasis. Following the discussion, the SDP Club will support this report in hopes that these two conclusions will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3790	Thank you very much. On behalf of the National Minority Club, Mr. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3791	I'm sorry, but my HDZ colleagues stopped me and then. The National Minority Club is pleased with this debate and I actually wanted to take the floor on behalf of the National Minorities Club to record that the fact that national minorities are finally spoken of in this Assembly is one way that is truly thematic. More thematic than the report, more thematic than the report. First of all, I'm not going to say how thrilled I am, and I'm not thrilled anymore. But I was pleased with the performance of my colleague in front of the HDZ Club because something was said here that was unimaginable in the past. Yeah, we've done a lot, but there's still a lot more at the local level of many problems that have to be solved. This many problems that must be solved show forgiveness, which we experience from the national minorities as a new sensitivity that has been going on for a period of power towards national minorities. On the other hand of the SDP, we also had one very fundamental and very good discussion both on the board and here in the assembly. Me and our national minorities were the most impressed by the debate of my fellow Lucin who, by the way, has one special sensitivity to the problem, and many others do. But in general, there was one debate that only at some point may have gone to a slightly stronger political debate between the HDZ and the SDP but mostly remained on the subject. And I came out here to thank you all colleagues from HDZ and coalition partners and colleagues from the SDP, thank you for this new sensitivity that you show towards national minorities and until the additional vote of fellow Stazic thank you very much. We accept that newspaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3792	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr. Minister Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3793	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. I, on behalf of the Government, thank all those who participated in the debate, all those who have helped the good proposals actually fit all those quality shifts and although this one is true that this debate was late in 2006 and that today the situation is far, far better. But the ones who say that to me from this report are right, too, we don't see it. Therefore, this huge shift to have this report in this year for 2007 through mid-year will also be a major contribution to the quality of this community and this debate. So I process implementation and constitutional law and all legal obligations, and we heard counsel Gajica said it was very difficult from Tuesday to Wednesday to do it. It's a long-term process, although we were also expected to have a democratisation process that, in some ways, came as some kind of tsunami after that former system, and even abroad was waiting for us to do something in two years. This process is long-term, but this process of implementation and quality co-existence are one of the objectives of this government's programmes, but I am certain of both the majority and minorities. All of us who live in this country. Tolerance, which I would now like to point out to her, which, at the beginning of his first term, he also gave a personal example to the Prime Minister, Dr. Sanader, and her conduct and the introduction of life, is our task. I said ours, I mean not only the Government, I don't mean those who are in charge of it, but I mean all of us in the first order of the majority, it's more of a responsibility and then, of course, the minorities and all of us together. We agree, this is what we were talking about, in this report, that the financial aspect is not the most important. Of course he's talking about improving funding as much as it is about funding, so it's also not an important part, but it's not the most important part. Yet we are aware that the quality of life and co-existence has priority, religious freedoms have priority. What you saw in the report, and that's when it comes to your Ministry of Culture, it's very difficult to rebuild sacral objects, meaning allowing that life that can pulsate and flow into the right one, in the quality of the way throughout the country. What I want to say anyway, and it was mentioned here, that the Government does not finance Croats who are minorities in some other countries, for example. Macedonia, Serbia, I don't know Hungary or anything. The government is also funding these programmes through the Ministry of Culture and through the Ministry of Education and of course the Emigrant Mother, who is somehow also in charge and are not small funds. If we were to add them up, she'd be thinking far bigger than the 10 million that were mentioned here. My colleague Radin was talking about donations here. So here it's in these documents that you see, actually it's about donations to associations. There is nowhere to be seen and mentioned and there is a need, and there is a reason that there should be a complete picture of everything because, let's say, only the Ministry of Education has allocated more than 30 million kunas to that part of education or the education of national minorities. So it's not visible here, and it should also be visible, it should be all together, it's a task on the advice and on the office that's taking care of it, in fact, that the next report shows that segment as a whole, and I think it's a good thing that we all get well informed together. And I'd like to say a few more words. Representative Tankovic spoke here that the Ministry of Culture does not finance programmes of the Bosniak minority culture. He, I would not now refer to it, also mentioning Sead Begovic, a great writer, a great poet, Enes Kisevic. I might add, although perhaps unfairly, Zlatko Hasanbegovic's publisher or Djelu Jusic's musician or my great friend M. Vezjovic's painter or great Tahir Vujčić. They're all great artists running for funding through the Ministry of Culture programme, not whether they belong to this minority or that minority. Because neither am I, nor will I ever, nor will there ever be mentioned any counting of grains, counting and asking for that criterion. The Ministry of Culture will finance and support all programmes that are of quality, will not be questioned who they are, but the man who needs to be pointed out and that he is looking for his programme through as a member of the national minorities will, of course, seek the programme through the Council for National Minorities and then be financed by it. We will continue to believe, for sure, everyone else and those who will come later, of course and inherit us in this, to stick to the quality of the programme, such a quality programme will be financed and financed because it is also a contribution to Croatian culture, but also to Europe's culture and to our community and to join the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3794	Thank you very much. One correction, Mr. Tankovic. Here you go. Thank you very much. One correction, Mr. Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3796	Mr. Minister, you mentioned some names. As far as I know, Enes Kisevic was also a candidate for the Nobel Prize in Literature at one point. And if he doesn't have a chance to get past your Ministry of Culture, then I really don't know what we're gonna talk about. But two weeks ago we had a promotion of a very significant book which unfortunately in the media in Croatia did not pass, so I would have given you my personal gift to you, the book, it is a Bosnian dictionary. After a hundred years of discrimination against our language... [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3797	Thanks to the MP, we will, of course, put this dictionary in our library, the Ministry of Culture has a good library, very interesting, many people, many scientists and students use that library. But, Mr. Representative, I can't understand or understand your sentence that Enes Kisevic doesn't have access. Enes Kisevic is an artist that the ministry and its programmes finance whenever he reports them. Until now, there has never been anything rejected by Enes Kisevic, but no one has asked him who he is or what he is. We all know he's a prominent artist, a quality poet.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3798	Thank you very much. I have needs and I mention that we have devoted four hours to this agenda point. It is also one quality, that the item of the agenda on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on Minorities, so to speak, the attention of the Croatian Assembly is so extremely shown and it is one such contribution and quality that it is necessary from another point of view perhaps to approach this problem in the future. And I especially agree with those who have pointed out that we have put this item on the agenda late, because things are happening in the meantime that are already a little late in commenting and debate in the Croatian Parliament. So, of course, this proposal to find a 2007 report by the end of the 6th month certainly stands, here. Now I suggest the following. Let's discuss one more item on the agenda, finish it, and then I'll suggest that today there be no vote on the crossed agenda points, rather than leave it for Wednesday, with Wednesday starting a session instead of 9.30 p.m., because I have the information that 421 amendments have been proposed to the budget, we'll have all day to discuss it, and I think we'll at least show one will to finish it in a decent time and we'll start an hour earlier. Here's my notice, and now he has a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3799	Excuse me, Mr. President, I have no other way so I'm picking up this tile. Look, we'll discuss the amendments and vote the amendments on Wednesday. It takes hours, 10 and 12 hours. It's not the best time for us to start that day early, and we're gonna stay up deep into the night. I suggest you think a little bit about this decision of yours. Well, anyway, we're gonna stay here for 12 or 14 hours, so let's just keep doing some other things that day, I'm afraid it's not really an instruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3800	In principle, that remark is appropriate. However, these are specific circumstances. The other day we were working until one o'clock in the afternoon. We'll be done a little sooner today than we'd like to vote. Well, considering all of this, I don't think it's gonna be too difficult after we rest for an hour, with respect to this observation of yours, I'm staying at this announcement at 8:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3801	Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the cost of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 for the needs of national minorities. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 for the needs of national minorities is hereby adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 121 votes for and one against the accepted proposed conclusion. We also have the conclusions proposed by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and Conclusions, the proposals for the conclusions of the SDP Representatives Club. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, second conclusion. The first has already been accepted in this acceptance of the report. It's a second conclusion, it says. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit by 30 June 2008 at the latest to the Croatian Assembly a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget for 2007 for the needs of national minorities in order to ensure regularity in the reporting of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 37(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. State Secretary Palaric accepted it at the session. We also have to formally. Who is the conclusion of the National Minority Club for this second proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? unanimously with 122 votes accepted the proposed conclusion of the number of two National Minority Representatives Clubs. I'm sorry, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The conclusion of the SDP representative club number one is completely identical with the recently accepted conclusion of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities. And we have a second conclusion from the SDP Representatives Club. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to make that report for 2007 and all of the following comparable to the previous periods with clearly indicated causes of possible non-compliance with the rights arising from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities as well as the measures proposed and the effects of these measures. I am voting on the proposal for this conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, no. First of all, it's not when the secretary tells me. ... He can accept it, but the Parliament decides. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He can take it. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You couldn't even hear because nobody said anything. No, you couldn't even hear. Who is against this proposal's conclusion? Restraint? There's no delusions that can be removed. 75 against, 47 for. So the conclusion didn't get the green light.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3803	And now we move to the sixth item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Electronic Media, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 13 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Information and Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Culture in the Government of the Republic of Croatia Mr Bozo Biskupić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3804	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor! It is namely the technical harmonisation of Article 17. The law on electronic media with the provisions of a Directive of television without borders governing this area of advertising. In July 2007 The Croatian Parliament adopted the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, which published the additional harmonisation of the Law on Electronic Media with the Directive on Television without Borders, the European Convention on Transboundary Television and the acts of the Council of Europe. However, the law in question was subsequently made by the Commission with observations relating to a certain minor difference in the meaning of certain concepts and the choice of words by asking for a literal takeover of the provisions of the directive in the section relating to labelling, television advertising and telemarkets, the arrangement of separate promotional and telemarkets and the definition of telemarkets. In this respect, the Republic of Croatia has been asked to carry out technical harmonisation of these provisions with a Directive of television without borders. In addition, the European Commission has conditioned the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the 2007-2013 Media Programme. As soon as this bill is passed, we will automatically sign our ambassador's accession to the 2007 media programme. This law regulates the following issues. This change requires advertising and telemarkets to be easily identified and separated from other parts of the software content by optical and sound means, or arranged to make separate advertising videos and telemarketing videos an exception. This means that, as a rule, they must be published in blocks and the definition of teletrade is specified in a way that is defined as a direct offer to the public for the purpose of obtaining goods or services including immovable property and the right and obligations in exchange for payment. It was pre-money, exchange for payment. So there are actually two technical changes. It means the word money and here's the word exception. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3805	Thank you very much. Is there, uh, are the committee's reporters going to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3806	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! I'm not going to be long. And it's the last item of the agenda we're going to have today, but I'd like to warn you of something. Yesterday, this speaker was told that in the general statistics of the laws that come to our agenda, they bear the label P.Z.E. There are a lot of laws that come to us a few times. And it's completely unnecessary. One of these examples is this one. In fact, the minister cited what he wrote in the explanation for the adoption of this law, which is that whoever prepared the bill did not take the explicit formulations of the directive. And we know it has to be done. It is also about some formulations that we cannot interpret in ourselves other than European legal practice or a document that is above that. I therefore kindly ask that cases like this happen as little as possible, because now because of two or three words or, and, or practically, you had to implement the whole procedure for proposing the adoption of a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3807	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate because there's no further. Mr. Minister, in conclusion. Here's Minister Bishop!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3808	Mr. Representative! We went with him to Europe, we carried, we did consultations. They reacted afterwards. Excuse me. Indeed, we keep working with them about this very medium. It's a very sensitive area. And that's exactly what happened when they responded, and we're going to respect it if it's possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3809	Thank you very much. So I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. That'll probably be Wednesday. At 8:30, we begin our first amendment. And we hope that there will be 421 in the day and that we will pass the law. I wish you a nice and good holiday and I'll see you Wednesday. Have a good one!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-29-0.u3810	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Unanimity with 122 votes for the proposed law.
