ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21656	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. There is a final proposal for the Agricultural Land Act before you, so let me say a few sentences. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that agricultural land is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and that it has its special protection, Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The total area of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia is 2 million 695 thousand and 67 hectares. From that we have a private million and 804 thousand 823 hectares and a state 890 thousand 214 hectares. We have the 2001 Agricultural Land Act, which has so far had three changes in July 2002 and in April 2005 and in July 2005. The application of this law in practice has shown certain shortcomings and obstacles which slow the availability of agricultural land. The law mainly refers to the availability of state agricultural land and does not contain provisions on transport and the availability of private agricultural land. The prescribed lease, sale and concession procedures are long-term and relatively complicated. The non-compliance of the real situation with the land-recorded state and data from the cataster allows and slows the availability. The trend of changing agricultural land's purpose in construction has been observed. The trend of depletion of production parcels has been observed and, of course, we have the problem of unprocessed agricultural land. That's why we've proposed a new law that today, I would say here in front of you and that this whole matter is being processed in a slightly different way and it's trying to solve all these problems that I've listed here. This Final Proposal of the Agricultural Land Act regulates the restriction on the ownership of agricultural land i.e. the holder of land ownership rights which cannot be foreign legal and natural persons, unless the international contract provides otherwise; protection, use and change of the purpose of agricultural land. The survey and monitoring of the state of pollution of agricultural land is carried out in the first year and periodically, during the duration of the lease and the long-term lease, and we have entrusted these tasks to the Office for the Land. Cases have been established when land re-use is not paid. The conditions for determining the amount of compensation for changing the purpose of agricultural land have been strengthened. For agricultural land which is located outside the construction area on the date of entry into force of this law, and after the entry into force of this law, the change of the spatial plan becomes a construction plan, compensation shall be paid for the re-use of 50% and, in particular, worth working or working land worth 100 % of the average land price within the construction area's borders. For agricultural land located within the boundaries of the construction area, the amount of compensation is determined in the amount of, here we had in the proposal 25%. In consultations and the government will go with an amendment that will define that this amount is 5%, especially worth and worth agricultural land not in the amount of 50% of the average land price, but 10%. When we talk about this, we need to know that in the previous law in this part, this price applied to agricultural land. So, this very increase that doesn't seem to be increasing at first sight, because in this relationship when we talk about 5% is somewhere an increase in some budgets and 20 and 30 percent, depending on the building land where it is. The establishment of an information system of agricultural land for the purpose of efficient management and monitoring of agricultural land markets is also required. The availability of agricultural land owned by the State is prescribed. It is available on the basis of a programme by the local self-government units and the City of Zagreb for its territory, with the consent of the ministry. Prior to the adoption of the unit of local self-government programme, they cannot dispose of country-owned agricultural land. The available programmes shall not reduce the agricultural areas that are in the production function. The proposal for a programme with accompanying documentation prior to its adoption shall be made public in the seat of the municipality or city or the City of Zagreb which brings the programme, and shall last 15 days. The programme excludes pastures and meadows in national parks and nature parks. The units of local self-government that have not developed the programme, and until today there are 95, are obliged to bring them in within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law. If they do not, the programme will bring the agency with the agreement of the ministry and at the expense of the unit of local self-government. Agricultural land owned by the State is available through sales, leases, long-term leases and concessions for ponds. Agricultural land owned by the State shall be leased for a period of 20 years. More clearly defined priorities are available on the basis of leases and sales. In order to implement and speed up sales procedures, land leases, procedures are accelerated and the ministry's consent in the process of selling and renting is lifted. So far, we believe that the agreement on tendering was restrictive and to speed up the processes, we have now let it go without the ministry's consent. In a long-term lease, production and technology units are given for 50 years. The initial price of the tender for sale, lease and long-term lease of agricultural land owned by the state shall be determined in accordance with the regulation adopted by the minister, with the agreement of the finance minister. We also have one newspaper that refers to mined areas of agricultural land owned by the state. They are included in the programmes and must be specifically marked, and may be subject to lease or long-term lease. The minimum agricultural land owned by a leased state, in a two-year lease, shall not be paid a lease for the first 10 years of use, if the tenant bears the cost of demining. The law contains provisions on raw agricultural land. It is prescribed that land must be kept fertile and processed in accordance with good agricultural practice. A private-owned agricultural land which has not been treated with a pre-vegetative period may be leased to a natural or legal person for a maximum period of 3 years and grown by a multi-annual growth period of 10 years with a fee paid to the tenant of the owner of the land. Penalties for unprocessed agricultural land have been prescribed. It is prescribed that agricultural directors oversee the implementation of the decision on agritechnical measures and measures to regulate and maintain agricultural mines. Fish stocks owned by the State shall be made available through a concession for the use of agricultural land owned by the State in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing concessions and this law shall be granted to fishermen for 50 years. It is also a newspaper in this law, and a question has been settled, unfortunately, that has not been resolved so far. Funds made available to agricultural land shall be allocated as follows. From the sale of agricultural land leases, 25% are the revenues of the state budget for special purposes, and are intended exclusively to finance the costs of rounding up agricultural land carried out by the Agricultural Land Agency. 25 is the revenue of the budget of the district, regional self-government and 50% of the budget of the units of local self-government in which the land is located. Out of long-term leases and concessions for ponds, revenues are shared 50% to the state budget for special purposes or to the agency and 50% to the local self-government units. Since re-use, changes in the purpose of agricultural land in building land revenue is 70% of the state budget for special purposes of the agency 30% of the budget of the unit of local self-government. The revolving of the lease, the purchase of the purchase price, long-term lease fees and concession fees for fishers set during the time period during the duration of the contract are prescribed. It is prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia establish the Agricultural Land Agency as a specialised public institution for the operation of agricultural land farming and the improvement of agricultural land management. The Agency shall carry out its work resources and shall, on the basis of the Law of the State Budget, carry out its activities and also from other sources. The Agency may purchase agricultural land owned by legal and natural persons for the purpose of rounding up agricultural holdings. The Agency shall have the right to purchase first for agricultural land offered by the owners for sale. The land is bought on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Croatia. The agency's land fund makes up the agricultural land the agency buys. Funding for the purchase of agricultural land and funds achieved by the holding of agricultural land. Agricultural land purchased by the agency does not enter the available programme. They shall be subject to the provisions of the laws of the statutes and other general acts of the Agency. The law contains provisions on the transport of private agricultural land. The sale and lease of agricultural land carried out by the unit of local self-government on behalf of and for the account of the agency is prescribed, and based on the offer of landowners who intend to sell or lease their land. The local self-government unit is required to repeat the tender until sale or lease of agricultural land. Administrative inspection as well as penalties, not provisions. Administrative supervision shall be carried out by the ministry through identified irregularities and failures, reports the Central State Office for State Administration and the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. The first-degree inspection shall be carried out by agricultural inspectors and the second-degree commission of the ministry. The provisions of the law provide for the agency to take over agricultural land supply operations from units of local self-government when they do not make programmes available and do not carry out tenders in accordance with the law. The sale, lease and concession procedures on agricultural land owned by the State shall begin until the entry into force of this law if a tender for sale, lease and concession has been announced will be completed under the provisions of the Agricultural Land Act. It is prescribed that this law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the "National Journal" except for provisions relating to the Agricultural Land Agency and criminal provisions for unprocessed agricultural land that enter into force on 1 January 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21657	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Legislative Committee, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21658	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the 38th session held on 28 November 2008, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law, and the text of the final proposal is subject to amendments which form an integral part of this report and are of nomotechnical nature, i.e. legal and nomotechnically reaching their own pronunciation. In addition to the amendments set out, the Committee shall make observations and suggestions on individual solutions in order to be considered by the applicant and possibly address its amendments the shortcomings relating to the following issues. First, Article 3 of this provision and the follow-up text do not specify who and how it will assess whether land can be brought into agricultural production. For example, there is no sign of building land in Katastra, but at best it is designated as built, or nowhere is it indicated whether it is a corridor along the road building land or not. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, It is also not provided for by the Ministry or the Institute to give an opinion or consent in the process of adopting those measures. Article 15 indicates that there is no obligation to notify the owner or the landowner of any phase of the procedure. At the same time, there is no indication of what the concept of public voice refers to. Furthermore, it is not clear to whom land can be leased when it comes to a direct contract, i.e. a direct contract. Article 17 points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph are replaced by the following: In Article 25, it is questionable to establish a different legal position as regards the amount of compensation for a re-use that depends on the time when a specific land is covered by the construction area. Article 81 needs to be reviewed by the decision to conduct the procedure of the units of local self-government and the city of Zagreb on behalf of and for the account of the agency because it is essentially about the sale of the land of the owner who is in the rule of the third party. At the same time, in accordance with the provision of paragraph 6, the procedure may continue indefinitely while the Agency may and may not have to appeal to its first law. Article 84 is also a questionable solution whereby the Agency sets out the criteria for the purchase of its statutes and purchases on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the provision should be aligned with the provision of Article 80(4). Finally, it is proposed that the text of this law be edited before its publication in "The People's Newspaper". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21659	Thank you very much. Do the other committees want it? Yeah. Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21660	Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development discussed the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land as a home working body. Representatives of the associations of agricultural producers, employers, trade unions and the cooperative union participated in the debate. The opening presentation was submitted by a representative of the applicant. The debate sets out the following opinions, comments and proposals. As regards the constitutionality of Article 81 under which the sale and lease process of private agricultural land is carried out by local self-government and for the account of the Agency. Also, respecting Article 48. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia governing the obligation of holders of ownership rights and their users to contribute to the general good is an opinion on the unsustainability of provisions which private persons cannot afford their private property but the local community sells private property. The problem of non-competitive agricultural production has been highlighted. In this respect, the link between policy land, agricultural segmentation for the needs of the food industry, the incentive system, the rules relating to agriculture and economic measures in the Croatian economy. The competence of local self-government units at the disposal of agricultural land, the possibility of manipulation, guessing and the same as the supervision of over 500 units of local self-government is questionable. Untrusted data and statistics on agricultural land ranging from 1.2 million hectares to about 3 million hectares were also presented. In European statistics, we are registered with a million-and-200 thousand hectares, so it is thought that we will receive only 150m euros from the European Union instead of 450m euros. In the opinion of some members, it is doubtful whether agricultural land should be equipped with local self-government units and agencies. Given the link between land policy and the incentive system, less than 1% of economies receive about 25% of money and 10% of all economies receive about 80% of the money used for incentives and that this is the most unfair distribution of incentives in Europe. In further discussion, experience has been expressed when local self-government units have put agricultural land in place in their area of quality. The opinion is expressed that quality land policy will enable this law to round up agricultural property and higher income in the agriculture sector. A positive assessment of the sale and lease of private agricultural land has been made, commending the establishment of the agency, the right of first purchase and the creation of a land fund that will enable circulation. It is good to establish an information system on agricultural land and to provide insight into agricultural land management. A system of supervision and the introduction of agricultural directors is also positive, ensuring that agricultural land is put into operation. In the provisions on changing the purpose of agricultural land, it would be a good agricultural land, it would be good to consider the possibility of also making a difference in the payment of compensation for changes in the purpose of agricultural land in terms of activity and to avoid reducing the trend in the development of other economic activities. During the debate, the problem of agricultural producers who failed to return the agricultural land that was taken from them by the Law on property compensation seized during the Yugoslav communist rule due to a certain period of time. The fear of tycounisation of agricultural land is expressed when some receive thousands of hectares of land. The debate expressed its opinion that the agency could remind the Croatian Privatisation Fund. It would be good for the law, not the statute, to determine what the criteria are, or the state interest in rounding up agricultural land with taxpayers' money, since they are talking about the priority of rounding up agricultural land and creating a land fund. The position or opposition to the sale of agricultural land owned by the state is expressed and that the decision is taken on the municipal or City Council or the City of Zagreb Assembly. In the case of private agricultural land, it shall be determined that the municipality or city, on behalf of and on behalf of the Agency, carries out the tender procedure and decides according to the order of the criteria for the best bidder, but the difference is whether the decision of the municipal or city council or the elected mayor or mayor should be more clearly defined. Representatives of the associations of the land communities have proposed to add a new item in Article 32 which would prevent the sale of agricultural land of land communities seized during the Yugoslav communist rule and currently owned by the Republic of Croatia until the issue of the return of property to land authorities with the possibility of renting for up to five years. It is suggested that it would be better for Articles 45 and 54 to discuss the deadline on which the state land is leased and the long-term lease to be taken instead of the word "20-year term" and the 50-year term reads: "20-50-year term". In further discussion, it was stressed that it was not good at the time of the global financial and economic crisis to go to the privatisation of the state agricultural land because it is currently the most valuable property Croatia has, that no mistake can be made when privatisation of social enterprises was carried out during the war in Croatia. It is inappropriate to expect that farmers whose income from agriculture cannot cover even the obligations of previous duties will be able to purchase agricultural land. The lease and the long-term lease should be more financially favourable for those going into production that are missing from Croatia, which would allow exports to be reduced, imports. The re-use of agricultural land is in some cases necessary, but speculation should be prevented by increasing the compensation for re-use. When it comes to golf courses and the adoption of a special Law on Golf Courses, it should be borne in mind that many countries no longer allow such construction since they occupy large areas, they require the use of significant amounts of Herbicides and water. It is therefore a questionable justification for the provision to exempt investors from paying compensation for the re-use of agricultural land in the construction of the golf course. Looking at all the objective and subjective reasons, the long-standing problems of farm land default as well as everything presented in the debate have been put forward by the proposal in order to do a third reading on the law in question. After the debate was held, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority vote 5 for and 2 abstentions to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Agricultural Land Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21661	Thank you. Do the presidents want the other committees? Yeah. Mr. Jerko Roshin, on behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, is that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21662	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 10th session held on 3 November 2008, the Final Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament, acting on 21 November 2008. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final draft law as an interested working body. The President-in-Office of the proposer pointed out that this law regulates the protection, use and change of the purpose of agricultural land, the availability of agricultural land owned by the State, the establishment and activity of the Agricultural Land Agency, the transport of private agricultural land and administrative and inspection supervision. At the same time, a brief review of the differences between the solutions proposed by this final proposal in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law is given. The debate on the Committee supports the adoption of this law and points out that its implementation will contribute to the rounding up of agricultural holdings and to the function of unused agricultural land so far. It is particularly relevant to the fact that today in the Republic of Croatia we record significant unprocessed and debossed agricultural areas with a number of nursing households that will be able to either sell or rent agricultural land for rent. With regard to the provisions of this law governing the sale and lease of private agricultural land carried out by units of local self-government on behalf of and on behalf of the Agency during the discussion, consideration has also been given to alternative models. With regard to the provisions of Article 25, it has been pointed out that the basic objective of this law is to protect the existing situation, therefore, the spatial plans that are in place should represent the initial position. It is also necessary to distinguish and treat differently in the calculation of the agricultural land compensation within the building area according to the spatial plan which is in force on the date of entry into force of this law from the agricultural land to be covered by the limits of the construction area by the change of the spatial plan after the entry into force of this law. The amount of one-off fee to be paid is also determined by the category of agricultural land. In this context, and in order to make an unequivocal interpretation of the implementation, the need to supplement the expressions in Article 25 has been highlighted. The debate also requested additional clarifications related to Article 25 of the average land price, which is the basis for calculating the one-off fee paid to change the purpose of agricultural land, and pointed out the need to supplement the expressions of those provisions. In accordance with Article 24 of which the investor does not pay the fee referred to in Article 23, it is proposed to include in the defined exemptions the construction of kindergartens, trafostation facilities for electricity, cellars, cottages, sports courts and religious facilities. In addition, paragraph 1 of that Article recognises the need to amend the 18th subparagraph, which regulates the exemption from the payment of compensation in the construction of buildings in the business zone. When a unit of local self-government investor building. The view was expressed that such a defined exemption could be negatively reflected in the already started investment and construction of facilities intended to carry out production activities. The debate highlights several meetings to encourage economic development and units of local self-government of acceptable solutions. From the fact that the exemption is defined for facilities in the entrepreneurship zone where the unit of local self-government is the founder of the zone, for facilities intended to carry out production activities and the like. The opinion was also expressed that the exemption from the compensation should also be provided for investors investing in production activities in the field of special state care, mountainous mountainous areas and islands. With regard to the categories of land, it is pointed out that there is also a number of sub-categories with a particularly valuable agricultural and farmable land... agricultural land which has no value from the point of view of processing and agricultural production. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the importance of inventory of agricultural land and the determination of real conditions in space is once again pointed out. In the debate, it is related to the provisions governing the area of agricultural land to be established in the programme according to the information contained in the catasters, land books and additional documentation, Article 31(5), and the provisions of Article 46(1), subparagraph 2, Article 81(3), subparagraph 2, which also refer to the data contained in the catastra. It is noted that the entries in the cadastre are both obsolete and mostly incorrect and the extracts from the cadastre cannot be the only basis for determining land as agricultural. It has been estimated that it is important for the implementation of this law to determine the real situation. Following the debate held, the applicant's representative was asked to consider on the committee the proposals for amending and supplementing the provisions of the proposed law and to propose their amendments. After the debate, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Agricultural Land by, 3 votes against and 1 vote abstention. Thank you and welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21663	Thank you. If there are no representatives of the board, thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21664	Mr. President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club sees the need to adopt a new Agricultural Land Act but we will not support the law in the proposed form. Two basic reasons why we can't support this proposed Agricultural Land Act. The first concerns the political decision of today's ruling coalition to go to the privatisation of state agricultural land. We believe that the time of the global economic and financial crisis is not favourable to privatising the most valuable assets the state of Croatia has. Another important reason or crucial reason why we will not support this bill is by our assessment of the unconstitutional provisions on the sale of private agricultural land. So we are opposed to selling state agricultural land because it is arranged and suitable for competitive production. The privatisation of state land at the present time can be identified by a political decision made by the HDZ government to go to war to privatise social enterprises. Agricultural producers, especially family economy holders, are largely not able to enter financially into land purchase obligations because they are over-indebted and their product is today uncompetitive. We are in favour of long-term concessions, i.e. how it is now regulated through the lease and long-term lease under favourable financial conditions for those producers that primarily produce missing products and thus reduce the imports of agricultural products. It is not possible to achieve the objective of rounding up ownership only by selling state land which is about 30 % or slightly less and by buying private but also by other agrotechnical measures. The commission is a measure not only of the rounding of property but of the overall arrangement of space and the handling of land books, and we don't even have the law about it. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia speaks of agricultural land as a general good but also a non-violence of private property. This bill affects the free availability of private property when it comes to agricultural land. We therefore appreciate that the provisions on the full restriction of the availability of private land in terms of sale or lease can not stand in law. It is unacceptable for us to decide local self-government units in the management of state and, in particular, private land, and for some things, even the mayor or mayor on their own. The municipalities and cities are also given many professional jobs related to this problem, which they in most cases are unable to do. We have over 500 units of local self-government mostly deficit and professional staff and financial resources. And under the provisions of this law, a unit of local self-government would have the following obligations, I'll just list some. Equipped with state land in a way that is maintained capable of production. Set out the necessary agritechnical measures, lay down measures to regulate and maintain agricultural mines, hedges, border, Polish roads, channel editing and maintenance, preventing the shadowing of adjacent particles and others. Conduct a tender to rent land that is not processed and to decide on the lease of such land. Create a programme of availability to state, agricultural land. How much, we estimate here that how many units of local self-government are there is as much policy because there are no criteria to determine how much land is going to sell, as much as in the lease, as in the concession. For example, we have a case that is now being speeded up in a Međimurje municipality to sell more than 300 hectares of commercial land that is next to the farm for this heroine annual capacity of over 3,000 pieces and the owner of the farm cannot compete because it is a company. Or the latest case when the town of Slatina makes a decision not to rent land to the most favourable bidder, the Croatian defender, and it finds even in his decision that he is the most favourable bidder but cannot get land for hire. Then we would have to make or determine the maximum area that can be sold to one legal or physical person. Conduct a tender for the sale and lease of land, therefore, and establish priorities for the sale and lease of land, both state and private, and so on. We estimate that at this level the possibility of favouring individuals, bribes and corruption is great. Even now, there are countless examples that members of the Council, the chiefs themselves, assign land to themselves, family, or friends. Sometimes it manages to prevent it, sometimes it doesn't. So we will continue to read the headlines in the newspaper: "The municipal chief without approval assigned the country to natural persons", "The peasants of the councilmen grabbed the revere", "The dissatisfied with the way the peasants sold the land physically attacked the councilmen", "The protest of the garrison peasants because they can't go to their country" and countless such titles. And now that it is a second reading of several of the most important remarks and the rest of them will be discussed in more detail by colleagues and colleagues. First, I will refer to Article 15. It determines that private-owned land which is not processed in accordance with agritechnical measures and not processed in the previous period is leased on three and grown by a multi-annual growth of 10 years. It is unclear what agritechnical measures are and there is no provision to warn the owners of such land. In accordance with Article 16, it is unacceptable that, unless the owner raises funds within a year, he loses the right to such compensation. What if the owner doesn't even have the information that his land is leased? Maybe he's been gone a long time or in refugee or similar cases. We also believe that Article 18 which speaks of the right of service is to be deleted because it is not possible to regulate this issue by general or government regulation, but for each individual case. It is also necessary, in order to preserve agricultural land, to impose an appropriate fee for the re-use of land, in Article 24. It is also acceptable to free the payment of re-use for certain purposes. However, we believe that the cases mentioned in this article should be reviewed specifically to free investors who are starving the golf course. There has been a significant reduction in the amount to be paid for the re-use of agricultural land in the building land between the two readings and now the minister has announced a further reduction, so we can only say that in fact in that part of the law we had no concept at all or we did not have a simulation, which means when it is necessary to pay for the re-use for agricultural land. Article 34 states that the professional activities of the lease or sale in the municipality and the city shall be carried out by the administrative authority responsible for agriculture. It should be said that there is no such administrative body in the large majority of small municipalities. They only have a single administrative department with one or two employees of the communal director. Article 36 lays down the order of the championship. We believe that it cannot be done in organisational form and age because it would be one of the forms of discrimination, but in the capacity, equipment and programme that guarantees competitive production and the possibility of payment of obligations. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the It is said here, in Article 38, that it will not be taken into account bids for the purchase of land equal to double the start of the price, and in Article 43 that at double the initial price can be sold by direct offer. We believe that this could not be the case, but those two articles should be harmonised. The Agency for Agricultural Land shall be regulated in Articles 77 to 80. We estimate that the Agency's competences are unclearly defined and left to regulate the statutes, which is not acceptable to us. We believe that the agency must primarily manage the state agricultural land, regulate agricultural land, work on the business of taking care of land-based books relating to state-owned land. The agency should be an independent professional body, not a place where "our people" will work. We don't see the point of the state selling the land it owns and buying the land of private owners. And for example, the agency will decide when a parcel can be shared, and we do not determine under what conditions and what are the criteria when the agency will decide that a specific parcel can be divided. The most controversial are the provisions of the laws relating to the availability of private agricultural land, which are regulated in Articles 81 to 85. Despite the fact that the applicant calls for the provisions of Article 48. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is of the opinion that the restriction of self-preservation to private agricultural land in terms of lease and sale is unconstitutional and illegal. Eventually we could support the first purchase institute when the land purchases an agency, but that the municipality and the city decide who will buy or receive private land in the lease is not acceptable. Article 88 provides that the prosecution proposal is to be submitted to the Ministry for a breach, which is contrary to the law of violation, because only the competent authority can submit such a proposal, and that should be corrected. We also have observations on criminal provisions regulated in Articles 92 to 96, and in particular in that section we point to penalties for those who do not maintain land capable of production and do not process them in accordance with agritechnical measures. Who in practice will decide, by what criteria, how to determine the owner if he is absent or more in one parcel, who will pay the penalty for unprocessed state land? A state or a local unit whose territory is land and the like? How, for example, will you inform the nursing homes that their unprocessed land is either not processed in accordance with agritechnical measures, and should be advertised in the municipality or city to avoid paying the fine? Or if the advertised land does not find an interested person, the penalty will not be paid, and the land will remain unprocessed. We think it also takes certain fines to stimulate "owners" to process the land, but in the way it's arranged here, we suspect that we will gain success and reduce the surface area of unprocessed land. Since there are legitimate remarks that are not only a political difference, such as the privatisation of land, yes or no, but also points to violations of the Constitution and the law, we suggest that we refer the law to a third reading in order to remove these ambiguities. Otherwise, the SDP club will not vote for the adoption of the Agricultural Land Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21665	Thank you. Does the minister want it? Here's the minister, Mr. Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21666	Thank you very much, President. So I think it's important to mention a few words about after the debate of the distinguished colleague Zgrebec. I would ask only to define some things with respect, I would say constructive proposals that we have already talked about many times. I want to correct what is simply not true, which is that there is no political decision to go into privatization at this time of agricultural land. That decision was made politically, Mrs. Zgrebec in 2001 when we did the first draft law and when we defined priorities for family farms. Therefore, in this part of this law we are improving, I have said very explicitly what things. We realized that after 7, 8 years of the law in the function of a certain matter should be speeded up, that if we need to speed up those things relating to the slow availability, where we had some delays, I will specifically start from the ministry to the municipalities and cities, and there we need to speed up the matter. The second most important thing is speculation and you were talking about it, which is that some have been trying to get their hands on agricultural land for speculative reasons to buy for 1, and tomorrow they're selling for 100 or 1,000. We clearly define this law that agricultural land is intended for those involved in agricultural production. What we've sharpened in any case is a pre-purpose that has been misdefined so far and what we've concentrated on is, of course, what's beyond the spatial plans of municipalities and cities, and it's known here to all respected representatives that sometimes unfortunately what happens is that what's beyond the spatial plan, agricultural land is bought for very cheap money, and then, in some short time, it gets into the spatial plan, becomes building land and happens, I would say one and corruption, the most direct, but also the destruction of agricultural land. And that's where we sharpened the criteria. We are aware that the agricultural land within the spatial plans is also needed to be solved. It's impossible that we've had buildings for 100 years, skyscrapers, we've built something, it's still run like agricultural land. He's got to get rid of it sometime. They're slow and chubby and catastres, but I think we're all aware that once we have to have a real condition. Here we had one, I would say a slightly more explicit proposal that these fees increase significantly, but in consultation, I would say with the current situation where we are fully aware that today we want to invest, that it is necessary in this situation to help the economy, we will reduce these fees, the proposal will be that they remain at 5%, and this refers to 99% of all those agricultural areas within the building area because definitely there are no high-value agricultural land. And in that part of the increase will be because so far it's been paid to change from 5% to agricultural land and it's been, we all agree on that too low, and since we now have a very clear purpose for where that money goes, then that purpose, in the agency, that purpose for local self-government units will come to round up, I would say what's most important is to put as much agricultural land into operation as possible. I think we all need to be aware of what's relevant to the part of the coverage of what you've mentioned, and that's the provisions that apply to the availability of private agricultural land. I think we're all aware that it's inadmissible what's happening to us today, which is that we have large agricultural areas unworked by which, unfortunately, no one cares. All the countries in our environment from the European Union to some others have solved these particular problems. I think it's time we took care of it. Those who want to deal with agricultural production are allowed to do so, those who do not want to do so need their agricultural land without touching their property, renting it, offering it to those who want to deal with agricultural production. We put them that way more competitive. I believe that we also contribute to what we all have in order to have as many of our own agricultural products as possible. Of course those are certain provisions that we didn't invent. We have consulted with other experts both outside and in Croatia, therefore I do not think at all that they are unconstitutional, but I think they significantly improve the management of agricultural land. Why did we give the paper that was made? I must tell you we have certain provisions, certain negotiations today that are being made regarding the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. You know our views on the very possibilities of a 12-year transitional period and demands in that section. However, the model we are now offering is a lot I would say clearer and more transparent, have it both France and Italy, and is defined in a way that when someone wants to sell private agricultural land comes to the municipality or city, reports there that they want to sell it, it is publicly announced. The Agency has the right to buy first, or it is defined by the right of priority, which is made according to one of those agricultural producers in that municipality or city, it has definitely what you were talking about, which is livestock production, seed production, the ability to produce as far as vegetable and fruit production is concerned, according to which something that is today our priority. I think that in this way we certainly define that we can create better competitiveness for existing agricultural economies, allow for rounding and define that this law can also maximise and bring its real results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21667	Thank you. We have two corrections. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21668	Mr. Minister speaks about the sale of agricultural land only in the first-price section, which is not in that sense an correction because the law does not regulate it. So local self-government will conduct a tender for sale and for the lease of every private who wants to sell or rent their agricultural land, but the agency is not obliged to buy that land. So if the first purchase is not made or not bought by the agency, the owner of the land cannot freely dispose of his land but must sell it to the most favourable bidder. In other words, if the owner of the land wants to sell his land to the neighbor he can't do it and it's actually a form of limiting the availability of private property which is unacceptable. That wasn't even done in socialism, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21669	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Boris Shprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21670	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you said, I hope I won't be correcting your incorrect allegations now, and I think it's incorrect, because you consulted experts, I suppose, in the area of law, the same time you prepared this bill. Because if you've consulted law enforcement experts, then you should have consulted experts who know something about it. Because what my colleague Zgrebec told you now is really true. He can't sell his neighbor any more agricultural land. He can't. Under this law, he can't. This, of course, questioned the basic institution of ownership rights and did not reconcile it with another institute, which I will talk about in my discussion. I'm just saying, I'd like you to deny me and let me know which legal experts participated in the draft of this law. Yesterday, I asked the Legislative Committee to say, since the law was a disastrous law on agricultural land, who wrote it, who it was, but didn't want to say it. But if it's a state secret, then you don't have to say it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21671	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, some notices and consultations before further notice. First, 7 clubs and 23 MPs have applied for this item of the agenda, without corrections and replicas, that is. The plan was as we've worked so far to vote at 13 o'clock and interrupt the session. We'll have a hard time finishing this agenda if we stick to having to finish at 1:00. There are two options, either to continue the debate until the agenda is exhausted on this point or that if we don't finish then we delay, we continue the debate Tuesday on this point. These are the meaning of two possibilities. Otherwise, I'd like to inform you that we're expecting a budget. We expect the budget to come today, the draft budget to the Parliament, and to be divided into boxes during tomorrow, so Saturday. The debate would be Wednesday in that case. After Wednesday, they would probably do so during Wednesday, it would take a permanent time to make amendments and would suggest that amendments be proposed by parliamentary deputies Thursday to 12 o'clock, and then the vote on the budget, as it should be three days, would be 15 on Monday. So they would meet the procedure and the obligations of the procedure and at the time of the regular session, so 15 could bring a budget if they finished it by 15pm. If we don't finish 15 by midnight, we should have an extraordinary session. I hope it could be done 15 by midnight. I'm just saying this to you as an expected order that I've put out here so that it can be realized. The consultations are needed because of today's agenda point, since I'm guessing it won't be able to finish until 13 o'clock. So are we going to continue or continue on Tuesday? Here, that's the question. What did you need, Mr. Lesar? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21672	Mr. President, I'm free to make a proposal on the budget. I understand printing, limited capacity, but on Saturdays or Sundays budgeting is not really appropriate. I'm proposing a faster procedure. There's a budget on the CD because it came from the government to the Parliament on a CD, and our experts in the 152 CD Parliament can fry it in about two hours so they can do it by noon. By noon, everyone in the box could be able to make a profit on the CD. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21673	Look, I'm saying this as a guess because the budget hasn't arrived at the Parliament yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21674	Well, I'll go get him if it has to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21675	It's not over. It's not the government. Today there is this council, the Economic and Social Council, I don't know who, then at the end of the government, and after the government accepts it, directs the Parliament, we expect it to be in progress today. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] That could be tonight. Therefore, we would be in charge of professional services to work rapidly in multiplying the budget and deliver it by Saturday. Who's just too interested, who really cares about the budget and Saturday exists as a day. She's not off. It's for what's... It can be published on the Internet's internal web site. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It could also be part of this on Saturday as well as... I think it would please the MPs. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] [[Intruder: Now that's already a big breakthrough.]] But I'm more interested today in solving this problem whether we're going to continue past 13 hours or we're going to break up, because it's impossible. [[That's right, that can do it.]] I mean, it's impossible for us to end this with replicas, with... What did you say, sir? [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21676	My proposal would be to do the Agricultural Land Act after the vote And it'd be even better if he went into the third reading, the way he is. [[That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21677	Mrs. Zgrebec, you suggested something. ... Tuesday. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] My position is the same, and I accept that proposal, so we'll interrupt around 13 hours, vote and resume this agenda on Tuesday because we put it on a post-mandment that wasn't planned. So we'll probably make it through what we have to do. Thank you very much. Now let's move on. It's Mr. Zdravko Kelić's turn on behalf of the HSS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21678	The Honorable President, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. When a man builds a house, then what's first and foremost and what he thinks is to make a good foundation. If he makes a good foundation, then the house will last a lot longer and last a lot longer. If that foundation is not good, then neither will they live in that house for long nor will they live happily in it. He'll live in fear when that house collapses on his head. The question arises as to what kind of agriculture we want in Croatia. What kind of village do we want in Croatia? Whether the village in which people or villages will live will be empty, and so far we can see from indicators that a large number of people are leaving the Croatian village. If we want people to stay in the country, then he must be satisfied in that village, and he will be satisfied when he can live with every man's dignity, when he has the opportunity to live with his work and live with the quality of his work. What is our priority, which is that the Agricultural Land Act which is in the second reading and of course needs to be accepted and we at the HSS will accept it. There are a lot of issues that need to be resolved, questions about who's really going to be in agricultural production, who's not going to deal with it. And in order for a man to be serious about agricultural production, he must have an orphanage base. If there's no raw materials base, then there's no quality production. Do any of us know a person, a man who goes to build a farm without solving the land issue before that, the issue of raw materials? There's no future in that kind of production. The future is the production of such things where man will have the safety of raw materials and with that security he can and safely produce. When we look at what's been going on over the past seven years, then we can see that we're going into one big job, a job that wasn't easy at all, a job that was extremely difficult, and it's proven over the past seven years, and we can see all the obstacles in front of us to solve them, and so we can solve the issue of available agricultural land. Through this second reading, of course many things have been clarified, of course many things are much clearer and much easier to accept and quite certain that this law will simplify and speed up the resolution of agricultural land. A year ago, when we were talking here in HSS, when we had to separate more money for agriculture, then many called us out and said that we wanted to become a country of peasants, do we want to become a country that would only invest in agriculture. And here is a year that has not passed, the crisis that has affected the whole world has affected us, and today many who have called us at that time tell us that Croatia has an exit to agricultural production, that agriculture is a priority that must be in Croatia. Cheapest workplace is in agriculture. Then we wonder if such people can talk about agriculture, whether such people can run agriculture or should follow the path that we've drawn here. In order for a man to enter into this serious production, he has to resolve his own land and here there was talk that it was not good for agricultural land to go for sale, that it was bad and that it was one of the reasons why this law would not be adopted. I'm asking you if, and of course it's been said and there's no money to buy that agricultural land. It's clearly said here, one who can suddenly pay or buy agricultural land, 20% has a discount. The one who can't, he buys agricultural land for 15 years. If we look at the price of agricultural land as it moves, then we can see that it's almost the same as the rent per year. So if we take 15 years off, the annual land pay war we buy is almost like a ransom war. I'm asking you, so is it better to rent a man a 50-year-old for 50 years, to pay 50 years for that same land or to let him buy that land for 15 years and become the owner? If he's the owner, then we've kept him in our village. He's motivated to stay in the country. He has the will and desire to work on his country, and he also motivates his children, so that the same children can stay in the country because they own their own grante. As long as he doesn't own his own grant, he can't be motivated to stay in that village and produce. For long-term leases or concessions that have been so far, of course we know that even from this material that we have received, you can see how much area is foreseen for this long-term lease. And of course there are also those entities that are supposed to get land in a concession or a long-term lease. We don't want to be a country just small family economies. We also want to have large entities that will be the bearers of production and they are needed by Croatia. Someone has to be the bearer and someone has to be the one who's going to round up all the smaller ones, all those who can't compete on the market alone tomorrow and be competitive. We also want to give support in this way, but not only for them to be carriers. In one part, yes, but not only that they are carriers. Croatia must be based on today's 176 families of economies, about a hundred thousand family economies that will be able to carry production in Croatia. With large subjects, then we can have food safety, and we can be sure that we will no longer have to import food as we do today. If we look on the other side, one large part of the surface isn't in function yet. We have as much land as we have, we can't have it anymore. We can't take the space around us, we can't take other people's land. What we have from the land is at our disposal. It may not be the way we'd like it to be, but in that part, we're making our contribution to putting it into function. And by this law, we want all the land to come into operation and really use it the way it's going to be used for all of us. The large surfaces aren't in that function yet. This law will put the surfaces into operation and will ensure that Croatia will get more food production and will certainly open space for new productions, and therefore also for new jobs. Is through agriculture if we look through the family economies, from the entities that work with us, we can see that hundreds of thousands of people are directly related to agriculture, and a large number of people are, of course, directly related to this production. What has certainly not been so far, it was not good that the large producers used the most support the state has given us so far. It is certainly necessary to go into certain changes, to make certain changes in order to get support for those who will know better and better how to care for it and know how to make better use of it. Because it is unacceptable that 1% or slightly less than 1% of Croatian producers use almost 50% or slightly less than 50% of all the support provided in Croatia, and in this direction, of course, there will be a certain turn to motivate family economies, so that they can produce quality and color products. So far, if we look through the programme that got the ministry's consent, there are a total of 531 thousand hectares of agricultural land owned by Croatia. If we look at that the municipalities and the cities for sale predicted 220 and a half thousand hectares, and so far only 34, 8 or 35 thousand hectares have been sold or 16%, it shows that no work has been done the way we would have wanted it, if it hadn't been done at the speed and dynamics that we would have wanted, and we know that there are deadlines ahead. Those deadlines aren't long. Croatia, if we want to join the European Union, will enter the European Union, whether in a year, two, three more than likely will not pass, must address the issue of agricultural land availability. In that part, you can see that we have a big job ahead of us. We therefore expect that both municipalities and cities will take this job more seriously. The ministry already proposed this law took this job more seriously and entered it, and it is absolutely certain that it will have to speed up its activities and have to speed up the realization and sales and leases, and long-term leases, because it will also solve certain financial resources that work and go to the municipality, partly to the county, of course and partly to the Ministry of Agriculture. The very agency that's being founded, here's what we've had some of the different thoughts that say the agency isn't good. The agency will not help resolve agricultural land. We've talked through agricultural land laws so far, talked about state agricultural land. In this law we also talk about private agricultural land. What are we talking about? Because there's a lot of agricultural land in private that isn't operational. It's agricultural land where we are today weeds, it's not processed for this or that reason, but it's not put for the purpose, and this law makes that agricultural land absolutely certain it's going to be put in place for the purpose and it's absolutely certain that it's going to contribute to what I said, which is food production. The agency in charge of transport in this case will not be harmed by the owners of agricultural land. What I personally realized, what we and the club talked about, she just wants to help get that land into that place. And if someone's going to sell agricultural land. That doesn't mean he has to sell it to someone. That doesn't mean someone else is going to sell one way or another. This just means that they will go public for sale, that all those interested will be able to report, and whoever is most suitable in that offer and, of course, the owner who accepts this most favourable offer will thus solve and sell agricultural land. There's nothing controversial about it. It can be said that this section that goes across the municipality or across the city, that it might be slower? He won't be slower. We also saw here through the law, which are deadlines. Those deadlines aren't long. These deadlines are short and quite certain to municipalities and cities that will get a little more work through this, but certainly they are available to help all those who enter this business. And when we talk about people whose land hasn't been processed, or people usually will, and they're going to go for sale, it's about older people. And those older ones so far had to ask for help whether some others or third parties could not accomplish what they wanted and wanted. With this agency, it certainly opens up a big space, and it will help all those who want to bring this land to their ends and want to help them, of course, in a way. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club is absolutely certain to accept and support this Final Proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land because we believe that it long-term resolves the issue of agricultural production in Croatia, that it solves the issue of food production in the long term, not only it but to a good extent solves the issue of food production in Croatia and thus opens up space for a single step for all of us, which is that Croatia is no longer a country that will import but a state that will only import what it cannot produce and all that can be produced here is enough for its citizens and thus this is our goal today in this difficult economic situation when almost the whole world is talking about food production. Today, no longer talk about the production of airplanes, helicopters, and similar things, but about the production of food whether the state can provide for itself. We didn't open up the question and the stories. What happens tomorrow if some of the things we import aren't so much out there that we can bring them in? Then what happens? It is therefore necessary to accept this bill as soon as possible, thus creating the basis for us to take a step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21679	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ Club and Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21680	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the Final Proposal of the Agricultural Land Act for two key reasons. First, because a series of provisions prescribes the protection of agricultural land as a national wealth, and secondly, because it creates fundamental institutional assumptions for the implementation of the croping process of agricultural land and what we consider to be a key and necessary assumption for more competitive agricultural production. We have already identified and identified the problem of small property, technologically uninvited parcels and the problem of unprocessed agricultural land as one of the main brakes of implementing structural reforms in agriculture and its competitiveness during the past discussions on the basis of and comparison of data from other European Union countries. Croatia has good operational programmes and isolates both through direct support and through horizontal support significant means to increase production and change its structure into intensive and high income livestock and permanent plantation. If by any chance we had resolved the privatisation process, i.e. the general availability of agricultural land, these programmes would have produced much greater results. The country will often be a key limiting factor in entrepreneurship in agriculture. With two to three acres of agricultural land, we can hardly compete with a farmer from France, Great Britain with an average of 50 hectares. Therefore, the rounding of agricultural land for us has no alternative and the HDZ club will support this law. What is good, and what happens in practice, we see that private farmers themselves are already buying land and rounding up their holdings to increase production and thus directly participating in the process of rounding up and speeding up the process. However, we believe that an important role must be played both by the state and by this law, both through this new agricultural land agency and through the land inventory system, the establishment of an information system on agricultural land, thus a series of activities prescribed by this law and which are the basis of an effective management of agricultural land. As much as this law will speed up the availability of country-owned agricultural land, some changes have been made that will contribute to its flow but the availability will continue to depend significantly on both the speed and efficiency of the land-booking process but also on the political will and professional competence of local self-government, so our municipalities and cities. It has happened very often, here we have now that the law has been in force for almost seven years, that some mayors and mayors have not divided in terms of privatisation in those seven years, that they have not leased a single hectare of agricultural land. It has already been said here that it has often been a source of corruption and bribery, but precisely in those municipalities that have so far failed to put any hectare into office, so neither sales nor leases in accordance with this law, so that the land available was used for daily political purposes. When it comes to the protection of the country as a national treasure, it is good that this law will further update and regulate through the activities of the Office for the Land and Criminal Provisions the problem of preserving land's bonity and preventing environmental pollution. The maximisation of profits in agricultural production, the excessive use of chemicals and protection products should not result, as in some European Union countries, from land exhaustion and environmental pollution, because it should not be disturbed by the mind to talk about sustainable agricultural production, that trends in organic production, that the system of unique incentives by farm, so all that is happening today in the European Union is not only a matter of awareness of nature conservation and the environment but unfortunately the resulting and expensive prices which, in particular, the richest countries of the European Union pay for the uncontrollable exploitation of agricultural land for the purpose of maximising profits. What was highlighted in the first reading of this law as the biggest problem is Article 25 of the final bill. And we think that's where two very important changes have been made. First, the money from the transfer of agricultural land to building land goes to 30% of local self-government units and 70% to the state budget and only with the purpose of financing the costs of rounding up agricultural land, which is certainly to be welcomed. Secondly, the structure of compensation for the re-use of agricultural land is determined in a construction which does not in any way respect the existing situation and for those newly created situations therefore prescribes different levels of compensation. But what we have to say here is we welcome that the structure is made and the land differs by bonity and that in this sense there will also be compensations different. However, we certainly need to make this compromise even stronger. Therefore, the re-use must not be a limiting factor in development and new construction. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community believes that the fees prescribed in Article 25 concerning land re-use should be reduced, significantly reduced and compromise should be made so that on the one hand we want to protect agricultural land as a national treasure, but on the other hand we cannot limit development, we must not limit new construction. When we talk about new construction then we specifically think about economic or entrepreneurial zones, that is where we think about the facilities that will be used to produce, therefore, manufacturing facilities. And also consider the possibility to regulate it by modifying that those manufacturing facilities that are outside entrepreneurship zones are not paid for in any of these cases, and in other cases I say as one compromise that these compensations be reduced, therefore, in re-use. Because we believe that the development of one economic activity should not limit the development of other economic activities and the development of entrepreneurship. So, especially with the emphasis on the part where they are entrepreneurship, i.e. economic zones. I also welcome the proposal's decision in relation to the first reading of the law to accept the remarks that those who enter the lease sign the contract, that at the moment they stop paying their obligations in accordance with the contractual obligation that these contracts must be terminated. So they don't have to, they have to break up. And we also welcome the fact that, in the priorities and criteria for the award of agricultural land in the purchase or lease, which is one of the criteria taken into account by agricultural schools, i.e. colleges, that is, education in the agricultural profession of all those running for land. That is what we consider to be an important message. In fact, agriculture today is entrepreneurship and agriculture is a business today, so that someone can also monitor the latest technological achievements and veterinary health standards, it must simply be educated. Investing in farms, investing in permanent plantations, is not the same as raising a hectare of corn or a hectare of wheat. Therefore, this requires, above all, very high initial investments, the allocation of significant financial resources, and it is clear that demands and new technologies. Therefore, neither ignorance nor error are allowed. That is why it is good to give priority to both these criteria and this means priorities in some way to those who have agricultural school or agricultural colleges, so those who still have knowledge. It is good that there is also a provision on succession, which states that the agricultural holding must not be shared by inheritance, especially by some of our regions, such as Slavonia and Baranja, which has been a serious problem over the centuries, so where agricultural holdings and agricultural land, by inheriting, have been shared, it seemed from generation to generation. And it is certain that this present situation and a small number of hectares per economy are the result of such a situation, i.e. the disorder of this area. And last time we talked about it, some European Union countries arranged it. And it's clear that if we're talking here on one side of the circle then we have to create assumptions that it's not coming in the nature of things and that this area is being arranged. And I think in the end it's important to mention on behalf of the club the fact that according to the applicable law and this new foreigner can't acquire, I can't buy agricultural land. But it should also be said that it will not last forever that the agricultural land market will be liberalised and when it depends on our negotiations with the European Commission. It is precisely why we are interested to know that one day this will happen that as many of our agricultural producers as possible and that we differ from the SDP who have said that we should limit, stop selling, stop selling, differ, we believe that as many of our producers need to learn about land ownership, round their own properties, strengthen both financial and economic, so that in that one, in the open market, in that single game, we can compete equally with those of European Union customers who are certainly greater purchasing powers. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law, we believe that it will speed up the privatisation and availability process in general to agricultural land, to create basic assumptions for the rounding of agricultural land, and that this should ultimately result in greater competitiveness for our producers and our agriculture. Finally, I believe that these remarks made by the parliamentary committees and particularly regarding Article 25 that we have made in our opinion, etc., that it would be good for the Proposer to take advantage of this particular timing and to arrange this area and propose an amendment so that the law is as complete as possible, more accurate and quality in its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21681	Thank you very much. Next in line on behalf of the IDS Club esteemed colleague Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21682	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. We discussed this law somewhere in the 7th month and I could almost repeat all those remarks that I was making in front of this club. I agree that agricultural land is a land of general interest, I agree that there are no farmers without land, I would like to stress this in particular, which is owned by it, and therefore the same in state property should be transferred to the right farmers as soon as possible, not waiting for the parties to come to us, and then, based on the rules of the European Union, we must give them that. However, you see and it does not work in Croatia in the same way, means in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. While someone in Slavonia, let's say, 1 square meter of agricultural land buys for 1 kuna, kuna and a half, two kunas, I don't believe 3 kunas and with these amounts can reach the agricultural land in Istria that reaches the price of 30, 50, 70 and over 100 kuna per square metre. This is not simply normal, the price of one meter of agricultural land in Istria is even 2, 3 times higher than in one Austria, Switzerland or Germany and I will talk about it later. This says that we seem to have confused all the values and that someone may be leading anti-Istrian politics because a ton of potatoes produced, for example, on a hectare of agricultural land in Istria is as valuable as a ton of potatoes produced on agricultural land in Međimurje, Slavonia or Dalmatia. In Istria, on the other hand, agricultural land sales are almost blocked. I'd say for reasons unknown to me because there are no farmers without land like no craftsmen without business, business space. But what do we do? In Croatia, a farmer can somehow reach agricultural land, socialist directors and our tycoons have reached banks, factories, hotels, using hundreds of hectares of so-called. The tourist land without kuna compensation, the workers of 400 thousand have reached social housing, doctors to the offices, defenders to the apartments, the only craftsmen cannot reach the space where he works for 15, 12, 30 years he, his family and this injustice should also change. On the other hand, I agree with some MPs it is hypocritical not to sell agricultural land to a real farmer, a real farmer and we sold the banks, Viktor Lenac, TDR what I know, tourist complexes. We sold everything. You don't give a little guy, and you give a tycoon everything so I don't say the same thing. But let me go back to this law now. For me, the key to the provisions that speak of penalties will be paid by a natural person if he does not maintain agricultural land. Articles 92 to 96 Well, that's not normal. Only those who don't know what agriculture is can write that. Article 92 literally states: "The fine of 500 to 15 thousand kuna will punish a natural person who does not keep agricultural land capable of agricultural production and does not process it and so on and so on. So if you're not working the country, and you're on the other side of the year 15 thousand kuna pensions can get into a situation where you're gonna have to pay for it and you can't because you're old and so on, 15 grand kuna. Well, that means someone's gonna nationalize your country. Well, we didn't really have that in 1948. If I knew on the other hand who in Istria would be working something for someone. So if you pay him, he won't come and do it. Therefore, those provisions should be deleted by me. I agree there's too much land in the "barade" but what you're going to do when the country can't live in some places. There may be certain cultures, wine, olives, I speak now for Istria but that will probably fall the price of the crisis deepening. I look forward to Article 2 that foreigners cannot acquire agricultural land but there is no deadline to say that this issue will be resolved by an international contract. International contracts have power over the law, so normally, they will be able to sell themselves under the contract. But there's no fear, and that's what I'm going to say, for example, foreigners in Istria won't pay agricultural land two, three or five times more expensive than in one Austria or Switzerland. And let me, that now around this topic, write a great writer of the Voice of Istria, Paulo Gregorovic, say to me: And in Croatia, there is a bubble crack and a fall in real estate prices. But what is even more likely for Istria, I quote: "The drastic decline in land prices is. Željko Lovrincevic of Zagreb's Economic Institute for Exhibition in Opatija presented a review of the prices of agricultural land in Europe." The conclusion is: the most expensive in Luxembourg, an average of €11.23 per square metre. You have seen the highest prices from 1.6 to 3.2 EUR per metre for regions with developed Europe, Switzerland, western Austria, southern Germany, northern Italy, the Netherlands, while at Croatia level the average price of EUR 0,27 in Istria is sold at EUR 2 to 25. I am talking about agriculture, or even up to EUR 60, which is located by the sea and clearly building. According to our calculation, Paulo says, the average agricultural land selling price in Istria is around EUR 14. The culprits for such a situation continue, not just speculators who have blown up prices. The latter is also the state that does not allow Istrian municipalities and cities to sell state agricultural land according to the disposal programme because the land price is reportedly too low. In Kutjevo, which is widely known for its wines, it is possible to sell state land by 0.5 to 1 and a half kuna per meter. In Grožnjan 7 to 25 kuna. In my Buzet under Ćicaria 5 to 50 kuna per meter. 11 to 30 kuna in Bujam. So he says who's crazy to pay for the most expensive agricultural land in Europe and even in a county far from Europe? Clearly, properties are neither sold nor bought in Istria at this time. The most powerful activity until yesterday is the de facto on your knees. The price will continue to fall. There are no more strangers who would buy apartments, villas and so on, but let's let it go now. But that's what I had to say about the price of agricultural land moving. Article 5 of the Local Self-Government Units should support state agricultural land. Well, that's gentlemen absurd. If the state hadn't nationalized it in 1991, then that would have made sense. Citizens need to know that municipalities, that cities, counties, own their own, have not one centimetre of agricultural or, say, tourist or forest land. But in 1991, in 1992, the state took away all the agricultural land from local self-government units and now the question is, what does it want with these agricultural land? That local self-government is processing it. The state clearly can't process it, so then let it stand. return to local self-government units to be put into operation. But what do we do? On the other hand, we are also against everything in this country. We don't want factories, we don't want hotels, we don't want golf. We won't do anything. We want someone to come to this country with 20, 50, 100 million dollars, shake them out and pick them up at home at the same time. But we're not gonna be watching that movie anytime soon either. We've driven out all relevant investors. I would say either because of the yellow, green, blue, black, I don't know which, because of the regulations, which, due to the bribes that have been able to invest EUR 4.5 billion in Croatia since 2000 to this day, have opened 40, 50,000 jobs to be closed in the following year, and the state has been able to earn several billion euros. For example, what were we doing just to build these handball halls? So from the budget of the Government of Zagreb, Varazdin, Split, Osijek, who else? I don't know, Zadar, she was giving live cash. The only thing Porec didn't get is the kuna. He's got some country, thanks to the government for the country that had nationalized him before, he sold it, and that's how he built the hall. So if we want to put land into operation, let that land return to local self-government. On the other hand, we can ask ourselves the same question when the Law on Tourist Land will be passed once, and how long will the land be able to always use the same land and thus store hundreds of millions of kuna in pockets, I would say annually. Article 15: "Arable land in private ownership which is not processed in accordance with agritechnical measures and is not processed by the previous vegetative period, can be leased to a natural or legal person for up to 3 years, with a fee, a clear lease to the owner of the land, or if there is a culture there within 10 years". And that decision, imagine we should bring units of local self-government. Well, neither can the court, let alone one unit of local self-government. Article 21, payment of compensation for the re-use of agricultural land. So the fee will be up to 100 or 50% of the average price within the construction area's borders. Secondly, whether someone, Article 34(1), can make a distinction at this time among the 3-month-old defenders in the Croatian Army, you will not pay a re-purpose, someone else clearly wants, which was for, say, 2 months, let the secretary in the MORH not pay, and some defender who was on the front for, say, 2 months will then pay the re-use. Let's publish that register once and get rid of these dilemmas. This provision is a note of bene and contrary to the provisions of the Defence Act. Golf, there won't be any re-purposes. That makes sense because otherwise no one's going to invest, only I'm going to say this. Why would they be more favourable to them than others in Croatia? It is clear to me that without golf, we will not extend the season, and from the 2.3 months of the tourist season that it is going on today, it cannot be lived, and someone must understand that we have had a dozen, twenty courses of such in Croatia, we could have extended the season by at least 15 or 30 days. Everyone would come in, and the hosts and the hotelers and the citizens and the neighborhood where they would come in. But clearly, we won't do anything, we will do anything, but the problem in something else is with that law that we're going to discuss re-building, and that 25% has to be deleted, and it has to be far, far less. And finally, as we were all against one tennis court 40 years ago, against the pool, which if you have a sea pool, bathe in the sea, today it's clear to everyone that without that tennis court, you can't live both Umag, Poreč, Rovinj, and Pula, and there are hundreds, not hundreds, but hundreds, and in 20, 30 years we won't be able to do without golf. But we'll only come to our senses when the crisis really shakes us. Already today, who talked about it, Mato, it is clear to everyone that without industry it will not work, that without industry there is no export, without foreign exchanges the entire Croatian payment system is simply falling apart. This year, which needs to be paid back $11.3 billion or $14 billion, should be secured for imports of $28 billion, then $40 billion, and Croatian foreign exchange reserves at this time are about $10 billion or 8 billion. Croatia is literally ahead of a breakdown and it should be understood, meaning as well as the fact that our survival does not depend on whether we will be able to repay the loans because we cannot, but whether we will be able to extend those loans. Therefore, gentlemen, let's make it possible for everyone willing to invest in the production, and for the purpose of this agricultural land, I'll say 0 kuna. Clearly, it is a shame that Croatia with these surfaces cannot satisfy food production or its own needs, but that we have that import of $2 billion, but we are also importing $25 billion of other goods and that should also be changed. Next, what is said here, Article 42(2), which literally states that, in the case referred to in paragraph 1, a buyer of agricultural land makes a 20 % discount, so the buyer is not able to alienate the purchased agricultural land within 10 years of the date of conclusion of the sale contract. What ten years? Well, that deadline has to be at least 30 years before one generation of it can live, and then it should be solved by the law first of the state, and not that someone on it is very much because the state gave him 30 or 40 years ago de facto. Well, indirectly, that provision is in some way embedded, but it should be under the conditions under which the land was acquired. Article 74 speaks of the distribution of state agricultural land, state 25, county 25%, local self-government units, which will say municipalities and cities 50%, but strangely, the Committee on Local Self-Government proposes 50, 50%, it just doesn't make sense because the bill is far more fair and it's simply a good norm. Secondly, what about the Tourism Land Act? When are we going to put that into operation? I am absolutely, once again I will say that the land is sold to real farmers, but if someone wants to resell that country, that state country, let the provisions be put in place that this country under the same conditions as it was acquired and offered to the state, so let it take further care of what to do with the same, and not that someone today a hectare buys anywhere for 15 thousand kunas, so you pass the Danube-Sava channel, and then you resell it to the state for 100 thousand kuna, and in one Istria if it is urbanized, then it will be resold, I don't know about 100 thousand euros and so on. And one more sentence just about this golf course that this law has tangled. Of course it should be regulated, but if it were up to me, I'd make a big hotel house that doesn't pay a single kuna of tourist land fees to make that golf, to give it to the state and then to pay the rent to the state higher than the amount of golf that was made in their field. All in all, I mean, we need the law, but I would love it if the law went into third reading and so much we could just be restrained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21683	Thank you very much. It's also on behalf of the SDSS Club, distinguished colleague Ratko Gajica. And just one notice that the time has expired for individual hearings. Here you go. .../The speaker has been disabled, and then turned on./... but it's been reported, okay. Here you go. A colleague, Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21684	So here's just one incorrect quote in a series of inaccuracies that Mr. Cain stated, which is that this law wants to nationalize someone's private country, i.e. those who don't process it. The aim is to place all the country that is agricultural in private state ownership in full function in order to reduce the export of agricultural products, to produce as much as possible in the Republic of Croatia and to export as possible more agricultural products. That's the goal, and no nationalization. Since Mr. Cain knows very well this matter of land conversion, probably in Istria where certain destinations have been converted from agricultural land to building land and big money earned, I could tell you a little bit more about these situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21685	Thank you very much. Here's your esteemed colleague, Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21686	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I understand this bill as establishing a new land policy, and in this respect, I think that this intention makes sense especially when we start from the fact that it's very important that agricultural areas are used, not that they're in the ice. From that point of view, these intentions or intentions of this proposal should be supported. There's a few things that I'm going to make comments about, or I'm going to make remarks about, in the next row. This is a serious matter in which we and in terms of land policy, but we are also constitutionally making a significant turn. In the discussions in which I participated on committees, here I particularly mention the Committee on Legislatives, there was one serious debate that also raised the question of the constitutionality of certain provisions of this law. I, in this place, express my continuing dissatisfaction with the performance or in some way interpreting, by the position of the proposing representatives. I felt the next few things in it, don't mind me, but I have to say it. It seemed to me that there was a certain absence of feelings about the weight of the topic and the problem that we are establishing with this law and what consequences should be expected. Another thing I point out as an observation. I still felt some absence of a sense of professional warning when it came to the constitutionality of some of the provisions of this law. On the Legislative Committee, there were extremely professional people, top notchs when it comes to interpreting constitutional provisions. That's pretty easy to take. So you comment and those suggestions are pretty easy to take. And the third thing that worries me a little bit, I can even say a little bit more worry, and that's not sure that the proposer has in the best possible way felt the likely negative consequences this law will produce. When it comes to this issue of constitutionality, then the proposer's representative said land in the Constitution, land is generally good. I'm completely consenting. And when it's generally good, it needs to produce a general benefit. But the Constitution also states that I am counting on us to agree on both private property and other rights of the individual citizen are also a general value and are also a general good. And when we now enter into the limits of these other constitutional rights or even when we are doing the law, then no provision should be made to treat each other's constitutional rights and the first and the second and the third, especially if in certain provisions, and I think that in certain provisions we do so, we go against each other's constitutional principles. Now I'm going to list a few things that are more concrete in this law. Limitation of the availability of private property. I respect the intention of the bill that no one has the right to keep the land, regardless of its private property, unprocessed in the icy as it says in the law, impeccable. But the next question remains, or the next questions remain. First of all, whether we have taken sufficient care of whether we have an answer to the question whether the private owner lives in circumstances or has good conditions that this agricultural land can be processed in an economical way, which means that it is not lost. And it would make no sense that this order that we must process land without a transitional period, without promoting these solutions over a long period of time and without considering the circumstances in which this individual and this family are and whether it is able to process that piece of land at all, especially whether it is able to process it to benefit him at least half of the kuna. Another thing about availability and availability restrictions. I don't understand enough about the next thing. We here say that at the sale the private owner cannot sell his own piece of land to his uncle, and he has an interest in having his land neighbor be his uncle or because he sees in his family combinations uncles as some helper in some other thing and can list 20 reasons why he is cheaper for selling a piece of land to his cousin. He can't do it here. And of course there are now numerous conditions. It's not just about selling, it's about the same way as renting. And something else about this restriction. In Article 15, this is reflected at this time of law enforcement. Article 15 states that land in private ownership, if not processed in accordance with agritechnical measures, can be leased, etc. for three years. Now, we have this complex or a set of articles from 81 to 85 that enter into force in early 2010. This Article 15, as I read here, shall enter into force immediately after the entry into force of this law. If we have a delay in applying articles that restrict the availability of private land, there is no delay here at 15. I also see here a meaningful and numerous other relationship that shows that what it says in Article 15, when we talk about availability, is equal to what it says in Articles 81 to 85. Or maybe I didn't read it well, but I'm afraid there's a certain discrepancy. When it comes to this deadline for law enforcement, it seems to me that there is a sufficient transitional period, for what I just said, promoting measures in law, notifying people who are going to hit and create conditions in one way or another, that people are not in an impossible situation, and it is that the law requires them to do what they cannot and physically and financially. Then the whole story will be counterproductive. I understand through this law that a new agricultural policy is being established, or if you want a new land policy. It's necessary and I don't mind. It seems to me, however, that it would be necessary for us to first determine what we have, that means that we first determine what is in the law here as the establishment of the Registration of Agricultural Land and at all these capacities. It seems to me that only after that should we, and when we talk about it, we are not only thinking about parcel numbers and the sum of parcels and the qualification is it private or someone else, but also about some other circumstances that depend on rational processing and which depend on rational use of land for what this law stands for. Only then could we seem to get better and rational agricultural or land policies. In this regard, here is the task or obligation or goal, however you will, the pretentium, placed in a "cate note" in which an ordinary man will be killed. And in the end, I'm going to say something about this deadline. We at the club were thinking that it would be good for this delay in the application of the law from 1.1.2010 to be moved to 2012 because we would get space for both this record and for the promotion of these measures and for informing people what their obligation is, so I figure it's just as important that these same people be animated to do what's on their part so that they can implement what's written in this law. And finally, I'll say one more thing. On the Legislative Committee we had, I think we had, so I interpreted it, some kind of agreement with the Proponent that the observations which are constitutionally legal in nature, which are given there, qualified, the observations made by the Committee on Legislatives, and not just nomotechnical but are a matter and more relevant issues of this law. So that's when some deal fell, at least I think it's oral, and what you're proposing is going to take into account, so the amendment interventions will fix this proposal that we now have ahead of us. Now I don't know if the proposer wants to do it, to what extent and in what way. As for the SDSS club, these interventions and the repair of some solutions that we think are not the best, it depends on how we vote on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21687	Thank you very much. We have a report of an alteration of the quote. Dear colleague Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21688	He grieved or expressed his opinion that his uncle would not be able to enter the land or by any means of purchase or by means of a lease. My colleague, this way most of the land will be transported by donations, and this way a lot will happen beyond the law. I think we should've installed certain family ties and trade rights by the Agency here anyway, because I say you'll legalize the donation institute at all levels that no one can prevent, and that way you'll actually trade illegally.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21689	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished colleague Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21690	Dear Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Although this law has a positive and desirable intensity, if the proposal stays with its solutions in some important issues, the Croatian People's Party club cannot support it. This law defines agricultural land as being of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and regulates, protects the use and change of the purpose of agricultural land. The law announces the establishment of an information system, which will be found in all ores, gardens, meadows, pastures, orchards, olive groves, vineyards, ponds, reeds, swamps and other land that can become suitable for agricultural use. All private and state-owned countries will be registered in the system, and will be maintained by the Agricultural Land Agency, which is good. The Agricultural Land Agency shall be established to carry out agricultural land farming and agricultural land management improvements. The Agency shall have the right to purchase first for all private agricultural land offered by the owners for sale. This law regulates the transport of private agricultural land, i.e. the procedure when the owner of agricultural land intends to sell his land. Agricultural land in private ownership, its traffic and availability have not been regulated by a special regulation so far, and it has been subject to general rules governing ownership. The procedure is now under this law we've heard. The procedure for transporting private agricultural land is a public tender. Here we ask the question, as well as the speakers before us, did the bill promoter go too far? Because the owner of private agricultural land makes his offer, or expressed will to sell his country, have to deliver to the local self-government unit and the agency. The local self-government unit shall collect tenders interested in the purchase and inform the owner, as well as the agency which has the right to purchase the country first. Nicely imagined if the aim is to round the country up for some more serious agricultural production, but where is the owner of the country and his right to sell the country to someone he wants, whom he himself chose by agreement, and not by some contest. A neighbor, a relative or a friend he wants for some reason for a buyer of his country. He can't, but he can't, but he's got someone who's 500 miles away because he's in a competition or an agency who's interested in it. My question is whether we justifiably go too deep into the constitutional rights of private property. Agricultural land owned by the State is sold, leased or concessiond to natural or legal persons on the basis of the programme. A country-owned agricultural land distribution programme shall bring in units of local self-government with the agreement of the ministry and shall not be able to dispose of agricultural land owned by the State prior to the adoption of the unit programme of local self-government. As one of the main objectives of this law, there is also a reduction in the possibility of speculation, and this is intended to be achieved by defining priorities in leases, concessions and sales. The advantage of buying or law under the provisions of the law will be given to holders of an independent family holding, a legal person registered for the purpose of carrying out a agricultural activity, and then holders of a mixed family holding only then the others who intend to engage in agriculture. The purchase advantage will also be given to previous tenants if they meet their lease obligations in order to meet their obligations, the holdings that have livestock farming facilities, farmers under 40 years of age, and the economies that have an approved project under the Government's operational programme. Farmers living in the area of local self-government performing competitions, Croatian defenders and members of the deceased defender will also have the advantage. The great news in this law is significant criminal measures for those polluting, polluting or simply not processing the country. For not maintaining land for agricultural purposes, legal persons can be punished up to 30 thousand kuna and natural persons up to 15 thousand kuna. For the purpose of polluting land fines for legal persons, they amount to up to 100 thousand kunas, physically up to 50 thousand kunas. Almost equal is being punished for removing an orange, or humus layer from agricultural land. An even greater penalty has been set for the reuse of land if it has been carried out without proof of exemption from compensation. Agricultural land must be maintained capable of agricultural production, as set out in Article 5 of the Law, and maintenance implies preventing its hardening and cultivation by years of growth. For a year, the time limit to which the law endures weeds on land and high penalties are laid down for non-compliance with that regulation. The bill also contains a possible solution for those farmers who cannot maintain their property and do not want to pay the penalty. Besides, who'd want to pay any fine? Penalties shall not apply if the owner of private agricultural land sells or leases his land. In doing so, it is required to submit an offer to the local self-government unit in which the land is located for sale or lease, but also to the Agency for notification. Therefore, persons who would otherwise be obliged to pay the fine will be able to avoid the fine if the abandoned agricultural land offers for hire or for sale, and the supply to the local self-government unit. It remains unclear what will happen if the local self-government unit does not accept a declaration of non-acceptance and taking into account that the Agricultural Land Agency does not have an obligation to purchase all agricultural land offered for sale. Is that when the punishment comes? This Law on Agricultural Land raises some important questions, and it does not provide adequate answers. The application of the legal provisions restricts freedom of supply to private agricultural land, which is unconstitutional. The constitutional right of ownership shall be elected. In this law, the obligation to use land is seen as of the interest of state importance. Namely, taxing on unprocessed land fell in the Constitutional Court last year. The Constitutional Court has concluded that owners are not allowed to be forced to deal with their land, unless it is in the service of protection of the interest and security of the state. Has the bill promoter checked in the Constitutional Court, given the state's wish not to have unprocessed agricultural areas, sufficient reason to limit freedom of supply to private agricultural land, i.e. by introducing an obligation to process the country. The country's people are telling the government that they are a little bit more regulated by the prices of repromaterials and other costs in agriculture, to sort out the situation about the import of agricultural products and the purchase of our farmers, and then to think about introducing penalties for the country's possible processing. A small peasant with one or a few crops doesn't pay to work on them, because when he calculates everything at a loss and works on them, there's no one to sell it to. Why did the state not go with the obligation to form peasant markets in every city so that, for example, a small producer of vegetables or fruit can bring its surplus for ransom every morning. What's a circle? What's the minimum target? What is the measure of the size of the land to which it is intended, and why, while the story of rounding is being reduced at the same time, the minimally encouraged surfaces are being reduced. It is questionable how the procedure for selling private land will be implemented in practice and because of the fact that the capacities of the local self-government units are very limited. Will the state finance this additional work of local officials? We understand the intensities of the laws surrounding agricultural land to make someone interested and motivated for agricultural production. All right, but the problem cannot be viewed in one sense both in Slavonia, for example in Zagorje or Gorski kotar, both for plains where the tractor is not even seen in the field and for Zagorje where the tractor is sometimes wider than the field. And there is nothing worth planting on it, for it is either too steep, or the earth is barren, or the hands are no longer strong for the locust. In Zagorje, the problem is not just steep, narrow, infertile fields. In Zagorje are the problem and the hurricanes in the boilers. They run streams and rivers that are beautiful, peaceful, and kind, but when the great rains fall, they pour out and destroy all the hard work. People know that, they've been burned multiple times, and they don't grow on them anymore. But the fight doesn't pick the boilers or the hills, it hits everywhere and destroys the crops every year. Shouldn't the state first provide protection against floods and anti-urban defenses and then come with fines? The desire to round up agricultural parcels and sow and plant on it cannot be solved by force of penalties. This should be achieved through a set of other state measures, incentives. For example, Krapina-Zagorje County already gives incentives in a way that pays rent to a private owner of a country that cannot or does not want to process it and there is someone who will or can. Then, import regulations, surplus purchase organisations, seed incentive prices, seedlings, fertilisers, protective measures, flood protection measures, effective anti-urban defences, irrigation and the like. When we crack all such measures, then let's punish those who don't process the land themselves and don't even want to give it up for someone else to do it. Finally, we think the state should have cleaned up first at its doorstep and then taken the fines to a private country of a small man. In the light of the law, it is beautifully self-critic: "In practice, it has been shown that there are a number of obstacles that slow down the process of availability to agricultural land owned by the state through sales, leases and concessions.", and says a contract for 269 thousand hectares of a total of 890,000 state hectares has been completed so far. So, 30% of what the state is boss, 30, not 90 or 100%. I don't think any further comment is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21691	Thank you very much. There is further debate in front of the National Minorities Club. Dear colleague Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21692	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, honourable ministers, members of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Representatives' Club will support the adoption of the Land Law for two reasons. One is certainly the expert that there is no higher productivity, no competitiveness of agricultural production without rounding agricultural land. Similarly, there are no serious programmes and serious funding from the European Union funds without serious round areas. The second reason we'll support it is next. Analysing that the past law has been in force for seven years, that in those seven years we have managed to bring about 70% of the farm land programme. Besides, we've managed to make 30% of it for rent, as far as sales are concerned. In my view, this law also delays or slows down traffic and land management. This means that in the next seven years we'll get somewhere at 60%, 70% of land rental sales, and many have just said that the time of recession is not the time to traffic land, so here's the reason that if it slows down exactly those processes at least as far as selling and renting is concerned that we're giving it support. Why did I allow myself to say that this law will not speed up the processes when it comes to rounding up agricultural land. So let's just look at the article that talks about renting and selling land in government property. On the basis of the programme adopted by the local self-government unit on which the ministry has given its opinion, it will discuss the unit of local self-government or the council of competitions, it will make a decision on the best offer. But, look at the wonders. The same thing has to go to the Ministry of Agriculture for consent, which means that the weather we are not going to speed up, but we're still going to be easy to cut, so as far as we get there. When it comes to private land, why I don't think we're going at enough speed. We're setting up an agency that I welcome, assuming, and that's for sure, and it says that professional people will work in it. But again, we've left all the jobs to the local self-government unit where even the chief doesn't have to be a professional if it's a small unit and we expect them to follow traffic, or to carry out a fundamental task in this traffic, to detect particles, etc., that I don't now, we have geodetics here who would certainly say what it takes to even say with this particle that I'm selling it so that it would be offered, etc. Because we know how much trouble there is in the catastro and how much trouble there is in Gruntovnica right now. If unprofessional people do so, they will continue to traffic very slowly, that is, in no way. I don't understand why we predicted a lease of up to 20 years, a long lease of up to 50 years, so 50 years of concession of ponds. Why are we running away from the concession, I'm going to ask the ministers for another clarification because all over 20 years in normal European countries is a concession. Why do we care about ponds when it comes to the same agricultural land concessions and we don't fit the concession when it's agricultural land. It's a little undefined, and it's not clear. When I was already talking about the problem that local self-government units are going to be having problems because of their lack of personnel, due to instruction, very often, or not having quality personnel, we and another job are going to be transferring to a local self-government unit, which is to control the maintenance of the ground condition or whether it will be punished, it will not be punished, etc., it will be done by farmers. It's a new job and re-ruling something that will have to be done by local self-government units that don't even have enough funding with the greatest will to want it. And now I'm going to go back a little bit to some professional concepts and something to suggest that this law goes into third reading. Legal or natural persons are obliged to monitor the state of agricultural land. What condition? The second condition, I guess, is the state of fertility of agricultural land because it is said to be done by the soil office, i.e. to do analysis. Thus, it is certainly necessary to state the situation. He says again, monitoring the state of agricultural land, paying for the fertility of agricultural land, will operate on the basis of soil analysis. But when done, Article 8 defines that analyses will have to be done both at the beginning and at the end of the lease or I do not know the concessions which in any case is right and just. But it's not fair who pays the costs of the analysis. Why would the land user always pay the costs of the analysis? If I'm selling some goods, renting them, then I have to give a certificate of what kind of goods it is, it means to give an analysis of the soil to rent that soil and that quality, and I expect that after 10 years, 20 years you'll give a warm handover to the flow of quality, and then surely the one who rented that land should pay for the analysis. Therefore, an analysis at the beginning of the lease must be on the burden of the borrower, i.e. at the end of the lease or of any other form of availability used. One more thing, and then it will make it easier for those who will make a commitment at the start of the lease. Someone finished the lease, did an analysis, so the next year they're doing an analysis, he can use that data. But then this article must be formulated in this spirit to know who is doing the analysis, because there is no need for him to have done the analysis now in 2008 and that in 2009 whoever takes the analysis must work because it is known that these analyses are done every four years in a normal relationship and therefore, it is necessary to define this article better. This Regulation shall enter Agrotechnic measures, in order to protect against erosion, and this is a convenient neagronomic formulation. It is therefore prohibited, i.e. by agri-technical measures to protect agricultural land from erosion, to understand the restriction or total prohibition of cutting fruit trees except for agri-technical reasons. And what if, instead of fruit trees, they stood there warm, like a windscreen from erosion, they should also be disembarked or not disembarked. Well, I guess we have a great name in agriculture, long-term plantations, multi-annual cultures, or so on, and not the word fruit. Because they don't have to be fruit trees at all, I say they can be topolas, like a windscreen of erosion. And that's what it's supposed to say, I'm saying a long-standing so far, which the heat is for sure. And therefore, to predefine it. Using agricultural land, Article 15, we are talking about renting land that is private property, without further ado, but why three and ten years? I know that for 10 years, it's been trying to put on because if the land is hard-cored, if they're scribbled on it because they need to bring culture in, they need to invest more in it. But gentlemen, we need to get rid of this with a lease. If we're renting companies for one kuna, then we could give that land for 1 kuna, but not to extend the lease years because it's unserious to say that we have, for 10 years we've been renting someone's private land. We give it to three years, but we financially regulate it so that he can actually bring it in and make it worth it. And there are just some of the remarks that I've had specifically, or we've had at the club about the gaps that are related to certain articles. And I think that's exactly why, but what I said earlier, defining whether or not the lease or concession, 50 years anywhere in the world is not a lease, 50 years is a concession, and that would be necessary and it would be serious if we were really talking about the concession. Because I'm not saying one more time, I'm stressing why the difference between pond land and land is used for other purposes. I don't think there are any objective reasons for that, and I think it's necessary to reconsider these remarks. And here's for the sake of everything that's been said, I'm also saying about these professional parts that aren't defined but also these some important things that should still be considered and changed. The National Minority Club suggests that this law still goes into third reading for a better quality law. Because we said that it must be the basis of agricultural production, no matter what kind of land it has available, or in what way it is available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21693	Thank you very much. And last application on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished counterpart Vladimir Šišljagic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21694	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what the current government is and what we've stuck to, I hope that at least we intend to abide by the Law on Agricultural, Agricultural Land for the past seven years. We haven't had much success when we have a fundamental idea that's going through this law, which is rounding up agricultural land. Two million and 700 thousand hectares in the Republic of Croatia, of which 33% in state-owned property and 67% in private ownership, with over the past seven years, despite efforts to improve the Agricultural Land Act through 3 amendments and additions, we still have that 165 units of local self-government do not actually have a programme of availability or, of course, brought it in on the basis of the ministry's agreement, the competent ministry did not bring in a programme of agricultural land. But out of what the ministry has given consent and is working somewhere from 531 thousand hectares, only 16% of the land planned to sell to the programs has been sold over the past 7 or more years. 50% is leased, only 50% of planned and 40% is put into concessions. We heard and we will all agree that what the current Agricultural Land Act has conditioned that it was actually part of the lease, sale or concession on an extremely complex, complex procedure, long-term procedure. That the problem still remains today unprocessed agricultural land, a large, large area of agricultural land has grown wide, but what was a big problem and what was seen as a problem is that even so little realisation, that I call it over the past seven years a problem has arisen that the country was divided regardless of whether it was a sale and a lease or a concession, in many cases as it is said by grandmother and uncles. And in the political dictionary, they got it politically similar. In many cases, politically similar, and this was a major case of course, it was an expression of dissatisfaction and rebellion of Slavonian peasants, as well as of course a Baranja who had no ties, political ties, who had no acquaintance with the mayor of the municipality or mayor. But if there was manipulation, that there was a bribe, that there was corruption right at the land allocation, that seems to me to be a fact that doesn't need to be specifically explained and elaborated. Finally, the following examples of what the Law on Agricultural Land and its implementation so far have been shown behind this speaker. The objectives have not been achieved and according to this, of course, that the HDSSB supports the adoption of the Agricultural Land Act, supports all those intentions that go to remove these shortcomings, but I must also point out that we now have a new dimension in this law, and that is that the Agricultural Land Act, as it is now proposed, is also affecting private property. So as he regulated relations so far, 33% of the 2 million and 700 thousand hectares now he regulates relations or proposes regulation of relations and private ownership on agricultural land. We have heard a number of remarks not entering that this law is indeed aimed at rounding up agricultural land, improving the conditions for the use of agricultural land, but given the numerous observations such as the procedure itself, the implementation process of competitions, and in certain articles it becomes questionable but in the least doubt whether this competition, whether all tenders should be made public or perhaps there is still the possibility of it being published on the advertising board. Well, then, about the compensation for the reuse of agricultural land, there's particularly the apostrophe of golf courses. So then, of course, doubts about the responsibility of the agency for agricultural land, the question of questionable enforcement of criminal provisions has also been raised, and if we bear in mind that a number of committees have also been issued but also the proposed amendment, then I am very inclined and that is the view of the HDSB that the Agricultural Land Act is going into third reading. For what? Because I think that we are interested in all and the promoter of this law and, of course, the opposition here in the Croatian Parliament to really pass a quality law, a quality law that will fulfill those assumptions, which is why this law on the rounding up of agricultural land has actually been joined, but that, in agreement with all the comments made, the proposals and amendments that may have been adopted and that it will propose some amendments itself, but I think it is enough and that it is actually logical that this Agricultural Land Act goes into third reading. With the fact that here I hope that these doubts will be resolved in particular, and I don't even think that there are any doubts about private ownership on agricultural land. For me, too, it is very personally questionable that the owner of agricultural land in this bill cannot have his agricultural land in its good hands the way he wants it. Namely, this law does not allow me to sell my farm, my property, my brother's farm property, my kid's neighbor to make some kind of financial change that I think is favourable to some particular person, but it all goes through the city, or the municipality, or the agency. And here is another suggestion not to ask, but I mean the suggestion that the proposer, and also the Government of the Republic of Croatia should consider when we are talking about, unfortunately, lagging behind, poverty, then Slavonia and Baranja is certainly one of the most lagging regions, i.e. the most lagging region in the Republic of Croatia. These are statistics that not only come from ourselves, but from Brussels. Therefore, on the other hand, when we talk about regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia and decentralisation, then we now have the opportunity and the basis of this Agricultural Land Act, the Agriculture Agency, to refer to Slavonia and the Agency's headquarters to determine where the most agricultural land is located, in Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21695	Thank you very much. We've finished the debate by the representatives' clubs. We're moving on to individual. First, an esteemed colleague, Mario Habek, applied for the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21696	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have before us a Law on Agricultural Land that should play a role in protecting the use and change of the purpose of agricultural land. I'm asking myself, is that what it is? I believe that the legislator first needed to define how much we in the Republic of Croatia need agricultural land and how much food we need, and then access this bill. This bill is also in conflict with the Constitution, the Law on Forests, the Law on the Communist Economy, in the extreme case of a coalition agreement. The need for agricultural land is moving forward with the expectations and demands of the European Union. The strategy for investments in agricultural land is based on rational expectations due to the growing need for food, and these include attractive subsidies coming from the European Union. Furthermore, much of the jobs under this new law are transferred to a local self-government unit such as the sale and lease of agricultural land that units of local self-government make on behalf of and for the agricultural land agency, and since no one provides funds for it, the units of local self-government remain the on-call guilty party to whom responsibility falls, so the question is raised which is the purpose of this agency? I hope that this agency will not be something like the Croatian Privatisation Fund, that we do not repeat the 1990s when social enterprises were privatised and that the work of these agencies must include representatives of the unit of local and regional self-government. Perhaps it is a mistake to privatise state land during the global financial crisis because we know that agricultural land is the most valuable property this country has. The bill contains a few more concerns. For example, Article 16 should be defined who introduces the tenant into unprocessed agricultural land, notably private property and conduct, in the case where the owner makes it impossible to enter into the leaser. Furthermore, how to treat agricultural land leased under Article 10 of the applicable law after the end of three years, especially for agricultural land not covered by the available programme, because it is within the limits of the construction area of the unit of local self-government, and in nature represents agricultural land. Then, according to the draft law, how to implement the obligation to tender for the lease of private unprocessed agricultural land within 15 days after the request of the owner. Local self-government units may in no way call a tender throughout the year and deal with agricultural land, especially if the tender is opened by a representative body that is held every 2, 3 months. In view of the high costs and continued occupation of local self-government units, the redistribution of private land lease income should be provided for with a minimum of 50% for local self-government units. In addition, Article 22 should state the time limit within which the ministry is obliged to give an opinion on the draft final proposal for a single unit of local self-government. In connection with the re-use charge, an absurd situation arises in which compensation is paid by private owners towards the surface of the building particle, while golf courses are paid only for parts of the building particle on which construction or infrastructure facilities are located. Therefore, care should be taken whether landing facilities or multi-story facilities are involved. Compensation for the reuse of agricultural land should be increased in order to prevent a variety of speculation. It is necessary to motivate people to work agriculturally, not punish them. We have an example of who will, for example, charge a 70-year-old farmer a fine if he can no longer process that land physically. Therefore, the Law of Inheritance or some other law should motivate people to transfer property. A number of inspectors should be employed to control the actual situation on the ground, especially around unprocessed agricultural land and it is important to regulate the obligation to round up agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia according to a simplified procedure for all parcels that naturally borders and make up the same whole. And to conclude, this bill has a lot of indeterminateness, illogicalness, and I would suggest that the law goes into third reading to prepare a final bill based on today's debates, which, with the acceptance of well-intentioned and professional criticism, would be as high-quality as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21697	Thank you very much. We have one reply to the replica, an honorary representative, colleague Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21698	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives and MPs. Well, Mr. Habek, you said that local communities don't become on the lookout for these competitions, or programs. I think that, as part of this, it should certainly say that a programme of agricultural land in the possession of a state that brings units of local self-government should be in place to implement them as soon as possible as possible and to implement them as such. It is just in Article 30 that the ministry should give its consent after the programme has been adopted and even mentioning a 60-day period here. I think that 60-day period should actually be said that if nothing positive or negative is said within 60 days, then consent is given because it would be on the programme, and in the sense that it can work further on that part. Especially what next? Public tenders, sales or leases? That is the decision of the city council. However, after the election of the most favourable decision, bids are made again, the ministry's agreement should be reached on this. Nowhere in Article 32 does it stand for how long the deadline is when it is necessary to bring the ministry's consent to these competitions. Why does it matter? Well, it's important from certain things, but also from concrete practices, for example, the city of Djakova, where the programme was adopted in 2002, the tenders were called, no consents, elections were or were cancelled, and they ask the question of interested people who were competing and who should have entered those properties whether through the lease or through the purchase. When will that be realized? When it will be realised if we do not have the ministry's consent and if the ministry hears in such concrete examples. Their questions go to whether after the running of the HSS councilman to... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21699	My friend Bodakosh, you picked up the line, and the debate...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21700	This is the question, will these tenders be realised, or will the day of consent and will the purchase be made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21701	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica, although here one three should at least include answers due to the width of the topic. Dear counterpart Habek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21702	That your colleague Bodakoš was well noted that Article 30 states that the Ministry of Agriculture is obliged to give consent within 30 days to a programme for the availability of agricultural land owned by the state. But nowhere does it really say what happens unless those 60 days are respected. I'm asking the minister what happens in that case. Whether this law can be interpreted so that after 60 days it is automatically considered that this consent is given or not. I believe that this should be introduced in this article so that people do not go astray and that the Ministry of Agriculture that gives this consent is indeed advertising in those 60 days and acting on that article.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21703	Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21704	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will not vote in favour of this proposal, for the Final Proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land, all of which I would like to, because I must not, given that I have sworn as a representative, that I will abide by the Constitution and the law, and this law is, and that is, that is, the bill is unconstitutional. Unfortunately, almost now a whole series of laws have been passed for the last five years, which await the Constitutional Court's reaction, some of us have already received an answer in our favor. As a SDP club, we did it. The same will happen if this law is passed by chance, we will react again in such a way. But, of course, for that, someone has to bring us conjecture. You can't and can't be disciplined by citizens, you owe every standard of any regulation to respect because they carry the fines, and knowingly submit laws that are anti-constitutional, and then even when you're warned about it, you insist on it, it wouldn't be smart or good. It's just that a man can't believe that in today's situation, so in the second millennium, here's now that we have a coalition ruling the HSS, that it's back in 45th and 47th of the first nationalisation when citizens couldn't have it just for certain properties, but the peasant has never been taken away from the country yet. Now, to the general astonishment of this bill, first of all, the peasants, and all those who have agricultural land, are unable to sell to whom they want to sell. It's terrifying and it's unconstitutional and it's amazing that the HSS sits in a coalition with HDZ and allows it. So the peasant won't be able to sell his real estate to whoever he wants, and as it happens, he'll certainly be cheap for him. Of course we need to protect the agricultural land, it's a direct need. For indeed, it is true, and it is not lawful for you to go all over ours to have abandoned agricultural land. Because abandoned agricultural land has nothing but an abandoned land. In regulated countries and the pedals of agriculture are being processed, but that's why all other assumptions are being made. Is the state processing its agricultural land and in general how the state manages its land? Did she bring him in for purpose? Is it neat to charge concessions and rent? Did she record all her land in the land book so she knew what she had? It's not until today. Moves are made, but still insufficient. So since one who has not disciplined itself as a state has great ambitions to discipline the weakest, and these are peasants and these are mostly people who have agricultural land. Article 2 defines that agricultural land is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and so it is, but whether this basic principle is regulated and set as a top principle in Article 2 further develops and exists throughout the law. No, I don't. But it's also derrogated through other laws. I must warn here about the Law on Golf Courses where it is also already in Article 1, 2. It is defined that the making of golf courses is of primary, or special interest to the Republic of Croatia. The agricultural land is also of interest to the Republic of Croatia. How are we gonna protect him? So we won't even charge investors for the re-use of this agricultural land we want to highlight, order, give a message to protect it. And tomorrow we'll turn it into a golf course with such an investor not even paying for a re-intention. I think it's time to get serious because it's really very serious. Everything that happened in the '90s with the destruction and privatisation of social enterprises is now and what I would say is, for a long time, traumatized Croatian citizens, from which to this day they haven't recovered, from this if we pass a law on water that is even worse terror, the Law on the construction of the golf course, then after that repair is gone. The plant can be destroyed, built, modernised, and it has repairs. There's damage, but there's repairs. As it is possible for state agricultural land to be managed by local self-government units, they have not yet brought their own programmes and how they manage that property, and also their own, which is eventually registered as a agricultural property. That whoever wants, which is mostly those who have money, investors spot one agricultural land, change plans and disappears agricultural land. And what's left of that protection is just a naked letter left on paper in Article 2 that sounds nice that agricultural land is good for the Republic of Croatia. But it's gone. Such bill proposals, such as this one, as we will discuss the Water Act very quickly, on the water good, on the water economy, are legalized by the swallowing of the Croatian state and the most valuable resource we have left. Forest, agricultural land, water. Well, that goes beyond any political interest of the individual or any party. It's our common public interest, it's a good thing that we need to protect and be sensitive about these things. What are these measures that are necessary and necessary to encourage people to process their own? Sure you should do it, but I say first you need state... What is its, should it process, should give incentives to people, certain stimulating measures that will stimulate people to process their agricultural land, and if they are unable to be stimulated to rent to others or other legal work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this is how agricultural land disappears. But then what does the state want to do? Forming the Agency is a special story. Our economy can hardly stand this state administration any more. But after such an administration is raised, services are not closer to the citizens or contribute to the application of the law, because this law as it is is is not only anti-constitutional but it is not applicable and will not have anyone to apply it. So, the state itself, the authority that adopts and proposes these laws blasphemes itself further. It's inapplicable multiple times. The agency as it is, what's her role? There are some tasks that are truly normal to be found in such an agency, but there are jobs that do not belong to the Agency. So she can't handle property-legal relations on agricultural land. Agency. How will it participate in the arrangements of agricultural land in accordance with specific regulations? What are the special regulations? The agency doesn't have... that the party is in the process and is working for its interested persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why it's inconclusive. So, a whole series of very fluid jobs are just so listed that it's important that who's going to be in the Agency, who's going to be the director, what's going to be his coefficient, what he's going to be doing and how he's going to be doing, and what the effects of that work will be, nobody cares. That we're still in some kind of intense development, but in this time of recession to throw state money at this kind of thing, it's really irresponsible. And what opens the way and the possibilities of corruption that the Agency will give consent to the plot. That's the standard we've never had before. The plot is a very sensitive business, and we know how it's arranged. Special laws, taxing, so that each of us knows and every citizen knows whether it's possible to land a property or not. But you see now, the Agency has the power there to determine and there are no criteria to allow the parcel and who not. Well, that's an invitation to corruption. The state is obliged to remove everything and look at some norms that would suggest the possibility that this corruption could be nestled, because if you give someone authority to go beyond any regulations, past any criteria and even the opposite, congenital regulations give a special authorisation for parceling, so what is it? Well, we recently passed that whole anti-corruption bill project. We have an action plan to stop corruption. We will report this provision to the National Council because the National Council has a special duty to follow in certain laws some norms as the source of possible corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21705	It's time, co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21706	So here's a lot more, but I think this is enough to make this bill, we need law, it goes into third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21707	Thank you very much. We have two reports of correction of the quote. First of all, the honourable representative, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21708	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect and it is amazing that today in the Croatian Parliament it is trying to falsify history. So that's what my colleague says by calling in '47. For a year, he says the country was never taken from the peasants. ... Agricultural. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrades, you need to know the truth that your predecessors from the Communist Party have taken the land, stolen it and copied it to themselves and their families. Go to Konavela and Konavos field, a farm country that is nationalized so ask the peasants what your predecessors have done to them communists. ... Don't falsify history. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Lucky for you and '47. And Communism is behind us, but it seems to live in the heads of more individuals in this House. ...the intruder can't be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21709	Thank you. Correction of the alleged distinguished colleague Marijana Petir. Here are my fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21710	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Antičević made several incorrect allegations. I'll fix two. She said the law was against the law. That's not true. Because our obligations as representatives, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's obligation is to safeguard national wealth and this law has the purpose of introducing order to economic land, and that is our obligation under the Constitution. Second, a colleague named Ingrid pointed out that she was back in '45, or '47. That's a completely incorrect quote, '45. They used to grind the peasants' attics and take away the land. And we know today which party is the heir to this ideology. It's exactly her party, the HSS certainly isn't, because the HSS is working on the welfare of the peasants. And one of the contributions to this well-being is this Agricultural Land Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21711	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. A respected representative of counterpart Dragutin Lesar applied for the debate. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, agricultural companies in Croatia use 229 thousand hectares of agricultural land, which is about 12% of the total farmland. At the same time, they produce about 50% of the total agricultural production. Of the total products sold from domestic production sold legally, therefore without VAT on the Croatian market, these agricultural companies are around 67% of the products and farmers 33%. Agricultural enterprises, for example. In 2007, they invested billions and 100 million kunas in their capacities, and the total Croatian investments in agriculture were a billion and 200 million kuna. In the past year, 609 million were given to agricultural businesses and 2 billion and 400 million kuna by peasants. Companies thus received 12% of the legitimately produced and sold production, while farmers received 104% of the value of the produced and sold goods. And now with this law priority concession these companies are leaving, because we need to secure enough countries for our presidents' associations, our... how they would master the vault. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the result of incentive policy, one cow, one hectare. And I expect that next year we have the incentives of one bee, one chicken, one pot on the balcony as a bountiful contribution to food production. Article 25 of this Act regulates compensation for the transfer of agricultural land to building land. An entrepreneur who will buy the desire to build a hall within the boundaries of the settlement in the future, will first pay the price of the city. That'll cost him 50% of the value of the building land that's... And the other 50% is a water contribution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, they'll pay twice the value of the land if they build a manufacturing hall. If there is an accident that the agency will call the country P1 or P2, therefore valuable or high value land, then the value of the plot will have to pay as much as two-and-a-half prices or 250%. If he's building on land that's already within the border of the settlement, then at the cost of land, construction, he pays 25% re-use, so he's got a water contribution, and that's about 175 percent of the value of the plot. If it's so stupid that it builds production capacities and employs workers, why doesn't he pay a double price? But if we're going to build golf courses, we don't have to pay the re-use, we don't have to pay the water contribution, because the Croatian future of employment is in the construction of 128 golf courses. The 2001 agricultural land distribution programme envisioned 222,000 hectares of sales. It's sold 16%. It was planned to rent 117 thousand hectares, given 50% of it in lease. The concessions provided for 123 thousand hectares, with 40% of which in concessions. Why? You say it's local self-government. What's going to be different by the new model? The ones you found guilty, you leave on the hopes of doing the same debacle at the disposal of agricultural land. You're not changing anything. But you give information and you often repeat that there are about 1.1 million hectares of farm farmland in Croatia. But those municipalities recognized or found or cities, 532 thousand acres and identified him. Where's the rest of the land? Well, somebody didn't take him abroad. The agency you imagine is not going to do that part of the job, but remains the obligation of local self-government. It'll take another 100 years for someone in this country to find 600 thousand acres of state-owned agricultural land nobody knows where it is. You're talking about progress. Find first a million and 100,000 acres of state land. Articles 15 and 81 are a disaster. Elderly households sick and old people who don't farm land. You're making a decision that the municipality will lease it. If the owner of that land wants to sell that land, he has to offer it to the agency. But the problem of unprocessed land in the large part is that it's small dislocated parcels and no one wants to borrow. Not even the owners can sell those parcels. So in law, you've made a decision that when the agency receives an offer it doesn't have to buy all the land offered, but that's why you plan to punish the owner of the agricultural land it can't handle, the state doesn't want to buy the land from it, and you're going to give him a fine of 10, 20 or 50 thousand kuna. These provisions would only make sense if they fixed the law and prescribed the Agency's obligation to buy all the land offered. You cannot at the same time threaten the citizens of Croatia with penalties for not processing land without taking the obligation to buy out all the offered land. And what will be the second consequence? Land price's down. The owner of the plot offers the municipality a lease. There are no interested parties, either by competition or by direct contract. Then the owner decides to sell that land. There's no interest. The agency, you wrote, doesn't have to buy the land at the price he offered from 5 kuna. A private buyer will come and offer the owner 2.5 kuna and you'll say you see the state wouldn't buy you 5 kunas. I admit it may be worth six, but the state won't give you five. Here I am giving you 2.5 kunas. You have developed a fantastic mechanism of robbery, poor, old-age farming households that will be forced to force the country to sell per kuna. You can only prevent it from being fair, to change the law provision in a way that every owner who doesn't handle agricultural land especially because he can't, because he's old, because he's sick, because he doesn't have the money to invest in machinery. The country must buy it, and only after that can you threaten rigorous punishments. This will happen especially to you in the north-west part of Croatia. It's not weird. All the laws recently passed when translated into a comprehensible language in the north-west part of Croatia, the agricultural country is worth less and less this time with the help of the Croatian Peasant Party and its minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21713	Thank you. We have two corrections to the quote. Dear colleague, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21714	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. A colleague named Lesar made some incorrect allegations. First of all, he said that the land's priority concession is given to the presidents of the peasant associations. It's a terrible lie and deception, and it's inadmissible to muddle people who do their job with honor. These people aren't proletarians, they haven't spent their whole lives in meetings. They're bloody working on their land, and it's inadmissible to throw such sleaze at them. Even that isolated example he mentioned was not a priority concession. The priority of concession with this law is completely abolished and until now it's the former PICs. Therefore, it is not true that the peasants were given a priority concession. And I want to say something else that is also really scary, which is that my colleague Lesar points out that this law provides for the robbery of poor agricultural holdings. It is an absolute untruth, a deception of the Croatian public. This law introduces order in the management of agricultural land. Those ageing farms that cannot farm their agricultural land will be able to give the agency to manage this land through the form of leases or sales and will receive compensation for it. Therefore, they will have additional money provided today that they do not have and on their land is growing chicare and, on the other hand, they will allow their neighbours or those who want to expand their property to deal with agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21715	Thank you. Correction of the quote Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21716	Well, I'm giving up since my colleague's already corrected the robbery charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21717	Thank you very much. Replica, a distinguished colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21718	You're right to tell your colleague, Lesar, that the state should commit itself here to the right of first purchase and to provide the means, but we have the right to do so first in three, four laws. And what did the state buy? So this country, or this government that's in power, just sold out, didn't buy anything. By law, she didn't buy one square centimetre and she often established that right. And this is where it's needed, but it's gone. And there was even mention here, you touched something. It's not my idea to defend 47th year but today we have whatever we're selling here right now, but then it was taken away from everyone to become something in common. I'm not saying that at all. But today you have the right to commit robbery because it's taken from one and given to another. Namely, after the man had lost his job, after he had become a tenant in his own apartment after he had a small pension, he was left with some remote agricultural land that this authority would take away from him because he is not processing that land. But even when you're talking, and so are you colleagues, you too, and your colleague, Lesar, have looked back on what your colleague Petyr said. Local communities turn their constituents' agricultural land into construction and my construction has always become agricultural. And now you're gonna punish me for not being able to process the granolas. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21719	Injury of Rules of Procedure Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21720	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Article 214 has been injured. A colleague insults the common sense of all of us here in this assembly by defending 47th and kidnapping, kidnapping communist defenses here in the Parliament. It's insulting common sense and insulting all of us here in the Parliament. And he's still calling the robbers, and I don't know who she's apostrophe here, but this is a disaster from our colleague's behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21721	I'd like to ask you to stop the forecast, because for the weather, we have an authorized office. A distinguished colleague colleague, Dragutin Lesar, appeared to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21722	Well, it's exactly, uh, respected colleagues, Ingrid, to this problem, that a really strange solution to the law that first commands the owner of agricultural land to process it as well as I welcome it. But then they give a solution that if they do not process it must offer to process the municipalities and agencies, but do not answer the question what if there is no interested. Then he'll be punished because the land hasn't been processed. Then they'll offer it for sale, the agency doesn't have to buy it. In order to reach a circle of agricultural land and older people, it is an essential obligation for the state to assume on its own the obligation to buy whatever is offered. And unfortunately, we have another situation, that even today some who rent state agricultural land do not process or process it for encouragement. Because 100 acres a year's incentives are worth more than you'd likely earn if you worked properly. So now I wonder if this agency, in law there is no word, will make order, will also clear those who in the last year or this year have collected millions of incentives without producing anything other than weeds and chicars. And then they're still working further to get income support on that land they're taking to the lease from the small owners. It's that one bee, one jar and incentives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21723	On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Agriculture, Mr Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I find it necessary to say a few sentences here since it is evident that some things are in contradiction. On the one hand, it is very clear that executive support is given for agricultural land and for certain cultures and on the other hand is trying to convince someone that certain articles of the Constitution do not work in that work as clearly as in Articles 48 and 50 and 52. What I must stress here, I must say, is that neither we, in any way, are trying to take anything from anyone. What's right and what the Constitution requires is that in certain things we need to worry about the way it's prescribed by the Constitution. And I would pray that it is not misinformed and that the Croatian public is deluded by some statements. Any one who owns the land, agricultural land, has the right to cultivate, has the right to earn and encourage it. Therefore, it is the first right that everyone has, but when this right does not use in that work that the agricultural land does not process, then the state is obliged to take care of it because it is so in the Constitution and written down. Therefore, we just want to solve the accumulated problems that are related to agricultural land because it is the basis for us to move forward in the overall adjustment of agriculture towards Europe, in the overall part I would say the development of the competitiveness of agricultural production is something called rounding. And we, on the one hand, cannot have and force our farmers to round up their family farms because otherwise they will fail, they will not be competitive enough, and on the other hand they will not bring, to enable them to do so in a certain way, with that agricultural land that the owner does not want to farm. So each of our nursing homes has only one obligation, which is to go to the municipality and say, I can't process, I don't have the funds, have the municipality call me a lease and let someone answer. And all the problems of that moment for that family economy, for that nursing home, stop. And we're doing a lot of good for those who don't have enough, and we've heard here today from these benches on the left hand side enough acres so we can feed the cattle on our farm, so we can round up our economy and let's not be gentlemen saying I won't use a group term but just incorrect. But we realize that this law is heading towards Croatia finally stopping and something called excessive imports but also taking advantage of the chance it has, because if we do not define it this way we are afraid that we will still have agricultural land where ambrosia would grow. This way, if we accept this law, I assure you that we will certainly prevent it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21725	Thank you very much. The debate was further discussed, a distinguished colleague, Boris Shprem. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister Associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will seek to speak without argument about the constitutional legal problems contained in this legislative proposal. It is true, Mr. Minister, that Articles 48, 50 and 52 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia regulate this area. But like any regulation, and especially the Constitution, which is short, many say content and clear should be interpreted connected, should be interpreted combined. So I'm going to say that the three basics or rules that need to be applied and implemented through this bill are. These three articles you listed are contained. The first rule is to guarantee the right of ownership. The second rule is that the right to ownership is exceptional, beware, you can be extremely limited. And the third rule, and it can be extremely limited for the sake of the common good, to call it that simplistically. Or as it says here good of interest for the Republic of Croatia which I now sort of interpret is the same, but it is not exactly the same. And the third rule, the law determines how this right is restricted, the right of ownership. So, rule number one, that every owner has the right to property as it is realized. It's realized that basically every owner does what he wants with his property. Wait a minute, I didn't get to the other one. The second is that it can be limited exceptionally in a way that is used by someone to abuse their first right of ownership. And thirdly, that this is dealt with by law in a certain way. We didn't reconcile it, those three rules didn't reconcile, because the law didn't rightly resolve it. And that is best said in article 81 of this bill. So it is the task of this legislative proposal to put into function the unprocessed agricultural land for which absolutely all of us are because it is insane to think differently at all. So which man, even if he wasn't from an agricultural area like me and who wasn't before I graduated law school, would be against it. So my heart hurts when I'm going through some areas, I see chicars and abandoned land. But on the other hand, we must be careful to do this in a constitutionally acceptable way. And now I will remind you of one of the solutions of the first coalition government in this Republic of Croatia. We know which authority it was because this is the second coalition power. With one jump for a few years. The first coalition power was initially its beginning to, so to speak, the government passed a law, a law on the financing of units of local self-government. And through that law went through a provision that said that the tax on the one who doesn't, you remember it well, we remember, is taxed by the owner of the agricultural land that doesn't process it. You know what happened to that norm? She was declared unconstitutional. In February of last year. I have here a decision of the Constitutional Court. In a similar way, I assure you, Constitutional Court, I suppose it is because you never know, but as far as I'm concerned, Article 81 tells me that the owner of the property cannot first decide what to do with it but must immediately resolve his property through the state and through the state, he must fall in the Constitutional Court because he is not reconciled with the third principle, which is that in a certain way which, for the purpose and function, agricultural land should be applied through this legislative proposal. And let me only at the end of some, for the sake of illustration of my thesis, some other provisions that I find extremely controversial, doubts can be interpreted differently. Article 25(4) states: for agricultural land located within the limits of the construction area, the amount of the compensation shall be set at 25% of the average land price. There's a few questions to be answered. First question: is it building land or agricultural land? The answer is avoided. Which, I don't know. He writes average land prices. That's the first question. This, a tremendously large consequence, arises. The second question is why the full parcels of agricultural land which are being re-used and for which compensation is paid should be paid. For example, if someone owns a thousand squares of agricultural land located in a construction zone and goes to build a house up to 400... He should pay a fee just for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This house is to be built 200 square meters and these 800 squares that should make sure that the state puts itself in the position of agricultural land as a garden should not be paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's because it's agricultural land. That question hasn't been solved. And the third question to be put before us and to be imposed on me. The fee is paid in advance for re-use and if you get a building permit. Let's say, what if I'm more, if I'm not going to realize it? Then I need that fee back if I'm not going to build anything if I'm not going to build anything. It's still agricultural land. So you see how many questions there are. Then one Mr. Minister complete, to me an unreasonable situation in Article 30.9. So after the state-owned agricultural land is made available on the basis of the available programme and which programmes do the local self-government units bring? You have an item that says, "The ministry is required from 60 days from the date of receipt of the complete documentation to give consent from the programme, from this programme." Ma is not obliged to give consent if it is not a regular matter. But it is a big, big problem in this legislative proposal rather than having to be formulated differently in order to know if the programme has not been adopted in accordance with the law then no consent can be given. It says here you have to give consent. So you don't have to give consent... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21727	My colleagues and colleagues, please let's hear the speaker for a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21728	The agency, about the agency. We know that the agency is actually and we've already introduced it as a practice, a regulatory body. The agency as a rule as we enter the process of integration, we enter the European Union, is the body of this Parliament. And instead of having such an important agency set up by law to be the body of the Parliament, so that the Parliament has control over it, we leave it to the government to do so by a regulation. We're absolutely against it because it doesn't belong to the government's jurisdiction. You know when you still write that the agency is making funds to work from the budget and other... /The speaker has been disabled./ by act, by establishing the Statute of what it means and by other... [[Intruder: Please!]] So let them be all sources of the state budget because the funding of such an agency with such enormous powers and responsibilities should be transparent and funding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the very end, this legislative proposal does not, unfortunately, put into service an unprocessing agricultural land in a proper and legal manner or solve the problem of membership, but raises terrible issues of constitutional and legal nature for which, as Mrs Ingrid Anticevic said, there are well-founded needs to address the protection of the Constitutional Court if such a legal proposal is adopted. And that is why, unlike Mr. Matusic, who points to common sense, but in the wrong, at the wrong time and in the wrong way, I point to common sense here that this law goes into third reading and gives opportunity once more but not to experts I do not know which experts you have contacted but real civil rights experts who will help you formulate this law in a way that will not be constitutionally disputed. And in the very end, even at the very end, Mr. Matusic may have made a mistake in 1947, but if you're wrong another time, then it's unforgivable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21729	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21730	Mr. President here was injured by his colleague without cause by Articles 209, 209 and 214 because he spoke directly to me in the Croatian Parliament, which is not appropriate. Another thing when you talk about common sense, then you should have had it when it was time and not today being followed by whether your fathers were wrong or not? And your predecessors, they're not your fathers. These are your predecessors from the Communist Party. The ones you inherited.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21731	This way, I don't see that the Rules of Procedure has been injured because it is common to sometimes mention in the debates individual representatives by name. Therefore, if, if it were a reminder, it would be a long series of reminders that I would have to give because of such things. So I'll hold back. But it's not, it's no big deal, and we don't have to deal with it. Please ring for, okay. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić is on his way. He's gone. Mrs. Mariana Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21732	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I will certainly support the adoption of the Agricultural Land Act because I think it is extremely important today at the moment that we are in place. In Croatia, there are 1 million hectares of raw agricultural land, 20% of which are state-owned agricultural land, 80% privately owned, and it is certain that new models should be sought that will bring this private agricultural land to its purpose. I repeat, it's about a million acres of agricultural land. Of course, this is also a special challenge in the financial crisis in which Europe, including the world today, has not bypassed the Republic of Croatia, especially when we speak from the aspect of food production, for which Croatia has great opportunities, has great opportunities to be a player on both domestic and international markets, and let us not forget that the opening of every new job in agriculture opens up another 2 jobs in other sectors. This is not negligible if we take into account data from statistics that say that the unemployment in the country is almost double the average in the Republic of Croatia, that gross national income per capita in the country is 3 times lower than in the city, if we look at the city of Zagreb, then 10 times. In this sense, it is certain that both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we as parliamentary representatives have an obligation to find models to make the Croatian village competitive, how to make Croatia's competitive agriculture. Of course, today the Croatian village faces many challenges and because the population is mostly old and because of the problems we have with agricultural land and if such negative trends continue, there will certainly be an exodus from the Croatian village. The consequences for Croatian society will be immeasurable, will be devastating, and this will contribute to the uneven development of the Republic of Croatia in which we all swear daily here in the Croatian Parliament. Surely, the Croatian village had the same development opportunities as the villages in other European countries, the problem is that we did not have except in the short period of Banovina of Croatia and at the time of the coalition government when HSS led the farm resort a sufficiently clear development policy that would lead to progress. This was understandable and because Croatia was often under other authorities, under Vienna, Pest and Belgrade, and I think today is the time for the Croatian Government to take responsibility for the development of the Croatian village and the HSS in doing so gives its contribution because it would be sad and it would be unacceptable for someone else to take care of the future in the Croatian village. Therefore, the model proposed by this law, which is the introduction of a farm land management agency, is a good model because the purpose of the agency is to place raw agricultural land in function and round the agricultural land. It is not true what was said in previous discussions that this is mainly about small private parcels that no one wants to process anyway because we are witnessing that in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, since it is about a million hectares of unprocessed agricultural land, these parcels are large enough, and when they are combined with those parcels that are being processed they can certainly be sufficient to increase agricultural production. There are also them, and I said that in the previous first debate, in the first reading, there are those who do not consider Croatia their homeland. Some live in America, Germany, went after bread with their stomachs, but there are those who live in the neighborhood, come to take a pension in Croatia, and on their backs there is a chicare growing. Such ones prevent their neighbours from expanding their agricultural production and those who do not care about their land create impossible conditions, however, endanger the agricultural production of their neighbours. It is precisely because of these that the compensation for unprocessed agricultural land should be introduced because they have the opportunity to farm that land, but they do not want it. If they do not want to pay that fee, they will be able to offer their land for rent or sell to the agency and will receive adequate compensation for it. If they have no intention of processing land or not offering it to the rental or sale agency, which would put it on the market, then I really don't see any other way to punish them because we're talking about national resources here, agricultural land, but to punish them and fine them, or to hit them in the pocket. This law offers simplification of procedures and suspension of various consents because the fact is and it is true what was said in the discussions that some consents were obtained in 2002, and that by today the tenders were not called, the peasants did not enter into the possession of agricultural land. I also think it is good to introduce an appeal to the ministry, which has not been possible so far. We are witnessing that there was indeed malfeasance at the level of certain municipalities and cities, that the mayors, the mayors were not assigning land under the Law on Agricultural Family Economics, but those who by law had no priority, but in principle there was nothing that could be done because there was no appeal, or there was no such possibility. It is also good that the priority concession is abolished because we have witnessed that various tycoons who were close to this or that government’s movement of feathers were receiving land, for example my peasants in Dubica, Jasenovac, Novska, Kutina or elsewhere who were working this land during the difficult times of war were left without land overnight. It is also good that it enables public institutions to protect nature, whether county or state management, pasture management and meadows because today it is the fact that in many pastures and meadows or growing... or, on the other hand, it is introduced, or it is brought in cattle for which no origin or owner is known. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why they're mary owners have big problems. I would also suggest that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Minister who is authorised here, be placed as a pollution in Article 6 and the pollution of living genetically modified organisms, because it is known that the release of living genetically modified organisms significantly disrupts the biological balance. Article 24 has caused many controversy, and this is where we talk about land reuse. I suggest that the social infrastructure of wind power plants, trafostations, as well as entrepreneurship zones be free of re-use payments. But also if it is not used for the purpose indicated, then there is a obligation to pay the full amount and return to the original state. We're witnesses when we're talking about resuscitating various situations, and I think it's the freshest one the media's ever written about, about which USKOK is conducting an investigation, which is a "crastograd," so-called. "Krashograd" where students, owners of two newly founded companies, quarantines and small investments in the City of Zagreb have been allowed to mix with land. The city of Zagreb gave 20 thousand square meters of land along the Maksimir road for 35 thousand square meters in Sesvetski Kraljec. The land in Maksimir was estimated at 321 € per square metre and the plot in Sesvetski Kraljec at 185 €. So such malfeasances should certainly be stopped as well as those that happened again in the City of Zagreb recently, in Resnik, which is being investigated by the USKOK. It is said that 18-36 € square square squares of land were purchased from the natives in Resnik, and then the city urbanized and then the land grew to 230 € per square square so that someone's political likeness and friends earned €16 million. It's a shame, it's a robbery and it can't be allowed and in that sense this law introduces order. I would also like to say, in the end, that there is certainly much to be expected in this process of negotiations with the European Union. That both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are clearly in favour of our national interests, which is certainly the preservation of agricultural land, which is a better treatment of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, a ban on selling the country to foreigners as it was and agreed on 12 years after entering the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21733	Thank you. We have three replicas and one correction. First the replica of Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21734	I want to replicate my colleague only in this part of the fee for unprocessed land. If this were to be treated as compensation just to force someone to sell the land, in which case it could be interpreted as being counter-constitutional. However, this fee is imposed for another reason, which is that if someone doesn't want to sell it, they don't have to, but they have to keep it in a cultured state, which means it doesn't hurt the neighbor, and to keep it in a cultured state, there are very cheap measures that anyone can do. And to accept why this is important, it is best to go to the island of Susak where the cultured quality land of vineyards, olives turned into jungles and impenetrable. Therefore, this measure must be supported I say for this other reason of maintaining land in a cultured state as anyone can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21735	Thank you. Mrs. Petyr's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21736	Well, we agree here in principle, colleague Chuhnil, because it's not enough time to highlight all aspects. Certainly, the compensation for unprocessed agricultural land is intended to bring land into a working state so as not to grow weeds, schiscars and so that this land does not pose a threat to neighbouring parcels. And in any case, if there are those who can't or don't want it, then the agency can help, take the matter into their own hands in a way that the land is offered in lease or sale, that the owner of that land gets an adequate fee, but also for those who don't want to take advantage of any of this institute and who don't understand that the land is a national treasure for them, unfortunately, there's no other measure left but they pay compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21737	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Christmas School. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21738	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There I was offered for this replica exactly the part of Mrs. Petiri in her debate when she said that she could no longer be provided with those mechanics who mixed up agricultural land and mentioned that part of the di is happening, and that's... /The speaker turned off, and then turned back on./... on the left, turn off, be parliamentary. It's a "crash town." But I'd say, we're simply not going to allow this kind of interference by this law. Here's one example. Namely in the area of Demelj, it is my district of Bezovica, where it is persistently not to have that agricultural land that has the municipal infrastructure as it is, but it is not intended for the family personally. But after a few months, these meshetars come, these meshetars who very easily elect building land, re-purpose construction land, which is of course in the City of Zagreb, and there should be more work to get the attorneys to control it in such a way, simply taking away these people in the edge areas of the City of Zagreb, their property and the purpose of any mechanics. And I congratulate both the Minister and the Ministry and the whole team for offering such a law to parliament, as well as to the citizens of Croatia, and we will certainly cut off such a mixer as they are today... /The speech has been turned off and then turned back on./... and you, therefore, exclude me from hearing the City of Zagreb and Zagreb because you are just against this law for the reason that your mechanics will no longer.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21739	Thank you. It's obvious it's off, but there's no telling who.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21740	SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21741	Replication response, Mrs. Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21742	Mr. President, if I wasn't surprised by this atmosphere in the right part of the hall, I don't think it's really possible to make such a fuss when there's one important topic about national wealth, but since over the years we've seen how much understanding there is for agriculture and agricultural land on that side, then I shouldn't be surprised. I agree with my colleague, Šolić, that this law will make a significant contribution to reducing the mixing of agricultural land, i.e. by capturing such processes because we are witnessing that everything has really happened. And I agree with you, colleague Šolić, that it is unacceptable for a poor family in Brezovica where there is infrastructure cannot get land re-use from the City of Zagreb, join the infrastructure and build a house for life, and on the other hand, that various mechanics can buy land from 18 euros, sell it 230 euros. So imagine what that's worth, 16 million euros from someone's friends getting to re-use the land. It's terrible, it's inadmissible, and I think that really these double rules should be abolished, but that this job has both the BOOK and the state's attorney's office, because this law itself won't be fully able to be a measure to protect against various mechanics unless all state institutions realize that we have to have priorities, and above all these priorities can't go to the benefit of individuals who are rich in poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21743	Thank you. And the replica, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21744	Dear Mrs. Petir, and the proposal of your... I agree, Mrs. Petir... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I'll remind you not a few cases, let's say, of which the entire Turopolje, on the route of the Zagreb-Sisak highway... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] one group of people very close to HDZ led by... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21745	Please, colleagues, let's not rule out a colleague. We'll finish the session today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21746	Excuse me, Mr. President... Come on, don't be serious. ... Everyone's talking in a voice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21747	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21748	Mr. President, please allow me and me to run out of time from now on, not before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21749	It's off, but it's not determined who's shutting down. This has not been established, therefore I warn everyone not to engage in exclusion. We're getting a little unserious about it. Let your colleague finish his replica. Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21750	I'm sorry, I'm running out of time from now on. .../All speak in voice./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21751	Let it run. ... Everyone's talking in a voice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21752	On the route of the Zagreb-Sisak highway, a group of similar HDZ people led by the then-mandor Matic took on a large amount of agricultural land, planted virtual orchards and wonders, and now they have received millions of damages. Furthermore, it would be convenient if you were already in government, Mrs. Petir, to examine what to do... on that part of the track that goes through the lecanic area where the same thing happens. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] And I would also remind myself that not long ago a public story came out that one entrepreneur succeeded from a Slavonian municipality for small money to get the land that the Government gave to the municipality for an entrepreneurial zone, but there is a miracle, and that entrepreneur who resells it to the trade chain, and that minister from the same city, from the same Livna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21753	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21754	Mr. President, colleague Šolić has injured Article 214. Yeah, she was talking, and she didn't get the word. ... Everyone's talking in a voice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] She spoke, and she didn't get the word. She cried out from the bench: "You are excluded by Bernardić and Maras" which is not true and in this way........... /All speak out loud.... And in this way, by her conduct she gave way to the general right of conduct in the House, demeaning or insulting the president and other MPs, thus saying that we are unserious and disfellowshipping other MPs which is not true. I'm asking you to warn her not to do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21755	I don't have to listen to anyone throw it at. And my hearing isn't so good that every detail could... Therefore, if there was a discard, it was outside the approval of the chairman's session. Let's not, people, let's finish this day. Don't rule out each other, so let's get to where we're going to deal with these things. Replication response, Ms. Mariana Petrir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21756	Mr. President, my colleague, Beus Richembergh, spoke about the land on the Zagreb-Sisak highway route and mentioned that it was about certain entrepreneurs who received this land for rent. If they got it leased, then I can't sell it today so I think he's got something wrong with understanding the very concepts of leases, sales, and everything that comes out of it. But surely the rules apply to everyone equally. If he thinks there are certain problems or malfeasances, there are state institutions that will deal with it. What I want to say about the Zagreb-Sisak highway, so I am pleased as representatives of the 6th electoral unit that the Zagreb-Sisak highway is being built and that it will be built in the term of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21757	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21758	You say, colleagues, that these various abuses of local self-government units could not be prevented by now. They could have been stopped by now, and they won't be disabled... because this law does not prohibit the reuse of agricultural land, which is necessary to do if it is intended to preserve agricultural land, but you allow golf investors to do so without even compensation for the re-use of the agricultural equipment of the golf course. [[You can't hear the phone.]] It's one thing, and the other thing isn't just, which you say is just such abuses, there's been these other abuses, and they're not the only ones and I'm the example of where my grandfatherhood as a building land has become under your authority agriculturally and under this law I have to work rocks. And I'm not the only one, so many are you. .../All speak in voice./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21759	Thank you very much. Looks like we're fixing the atmosphere in the assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and deputies, we're going to interrupt the session, we're going to interrupt the debate on this item of the agenda because there are 25 individual debates left. On Tuesday, at 9.30 p.m., we continue with this agenda. The right is Mrs. Nadica Jelash, then Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić and then Branko Box and so on. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to ask the clubs and the MPs to gather at 11.00 a.m. in the assembly to expand the agenda, include some points that we have to finish, or classify and discuss and finish. So at 11:00, I'm asking the clubs to notify the MPs and the MPs in order to extend the agenda. We are continuing to discuss the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act. It's Madam Representative Nadica Jelash's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21761	Dear President, Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will only say a few things about the final proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land, so I will limit myself to several proposed solutions that devalue this law to the extent that in some parts they make it unconstitutional, although lately unconstitutional legal provisions are not actually a few of the rarest things in Croatian legislative practice. Let us only remember the Road Safety Act, which apart from having unconstitutional provisions, is primarily based on repression in order to fill the state budget with high penalties. According to the same matrix, this proposal is also drawn up, so some of the provisions are contrary to constitutional standards, and high fees for the re-use of agricultural land are in the function of filling the state register, and we are going in order. In disagreement with the Constitution, the legal provision of future access to private agricultural land is legal. Out of a total of 2.7 million hectares of total available agricultural areas in Croatia, 1.8 million hectares or 67% refer exactly to private-owned agricultural land. Free availability of private property is a standard defined by the Constitution, and this bill devastates it. So no more free sales and leases, everything goes through the agricultural land agency that this law gets virtually unlimited powers. Trained by the poor experience of conversion and privatisation, we fear that with such great powers the agencies could be transported to the Agricultural Land Privatisation Fund. We are afraid that along with those of us already well-known tycoons, we could get more agrarian tycoons, which would circle the privatisation process, and the sale of all available national resources would definitely be completed. We see the analysis even at the social economic moment, the privatisation of companies was initiated during the Homeland War, and privatisation of agricultural land was at the time of the biggest economic crisis in the last 80 years. In times of crisis, real estate prices fall and they become easy prey for those who have accumulated capital in the last 15 years. The poor Croatian peasant will certainly not be the one buying the land, he will sooner be in a position to sell it. This is the scenario we're afraid of the more the agency's exposure is actually going to be a unit of local self-government. In particular, they will carry out the process of selling and renting agricultural land on the ground on behalf of and on behalf of the Agency, with the fact that, in dealing with private land, Article 82 of the final proposal of the law is not clearly defined even by who proposes to the agency the most favourable bidder according to the order of the primary right of purchase or lease. Is this the representative body, therefore the municipal or city council, or the City of Zagreb Assembly, or is it an executive body, so the elected mayor or mayor. Because if it's the mayor or the mayor, the space for guessing and corruption is far greater. One of the most important functions of the agency is the rounding up of agricultural land since agricultural resources in Croatia are atomised, fragmented, so the production parcels are depreciated with the tendency to continue to reduce the processing area by the agricultural holding, which is also the largest limiting factor for the application of agritechnical measures to commercial agricultural production. I really don't understand how this law means to ensure the rounding of agricultural land as assumptions so as to increase agricultural production, when, therefore, when it comes to state-owned agricultural land, it could go through local self-government schemes, with the consent of the competent ministry, although these things are not going smoothly, and this confirms that of the 471 units of local self-government, which in their territory have agricultural land owned, even 95 of them, so each fifth still hasn't made its own programmes available to agricultural land. Of course, more problems are incomparably more difficult to round up private-owned agricultural land, and just as I have already pointed out in advance, it makes most of the more than two-thirds of the total available agricultural land fund. In this case, therefore, the rounding will remain an impossible mission if, with this law today, no changes to the current rules on succession which will prevent further vaccination of land properties. In addition to the rounding up of agricultural land, the current state aid system does not go beyond which a minimal area is encouraged for the most important military cultures of only one hectare. And a few more words about the reuse of agricultural land. It is clear that the purpose of the compensation for the re-use of agricultural land is a good thing on special interest for the Republic of Croatia and on the subject of its particular protection. Despite good intentions, however, the determined amount of compensation is too high. How are you going to explain to the investor who bought the site, that he still has to pay an extra 50% of the land's already paid price, this time for land re-use. Since a good voice is heard far away, and worse still, these days we have heard reactions to such a bill even from Sweden. IKEA is considering giving up the construction of a large shopping centre in Zagreb for a reason, which would have to pay an additional 16 million kuna for the re-use of agricultural land. This is how potential foreign investors react. What the domestic investors will say will be pressured by the global crisis, by the lack of financial resources, by their high price. Who will invest and who will ensure economic growth and development in the first place. In addition, Article 25 of the proposed law does not make it clear who controls the fee for the re-use of agricultural land after the solution has been issued. The time limit for payment after the solution has been issued, as well as the payment of legally tightened interest if the fee is not paid within the time limit. However, it is not established who controls whether the fee is even charged. And just one more detail about the pre-purpose. Although Article 23 of the Law changes the purpose of agricultural land in terms of payment of a one-time fee is also considered to be the construction of sports grounds, Article 24 provides for an exemption from that rule, see miracles, to build a golf course. Therefore, the construction of a golf course is legally equated in terms of the exemption from payment of compensation for the reuse of agricultural land with objects of general interest such as, for example, flood protection buildings, municipal, rail and road infrastructure, schools, hospitals, cemeteries, etc. This is an example of open guessing with large capital. So instead of taxing him, he's free from paying his fees, all by the model who has it, give him more. So, for all the above, it would be good for this bill to be corrected, i.e. in the third reading to get a truly quality law that will be able to be applied for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21762	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21763	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The legislation so far was mostly made available to state agricultural land while private-owned agricultural land was not regulated by a special regulation, but rather by the general rules governing ownership. A programme for agricultural land in state ownership, i.e. sale, lease, concession, brings a programme of units of local self-government. However, we see from this data that 95 municipalities or cities did not bring such programs. In fact, I wonder why the county is not covered, since the county has its own administrative departments for agriculture and can be involved either in the work of agencies or essentially help local self-government units or municipalities and cities within that county. In fact, it is explained how much percent was implemented in these programmes, as far as sales are concerned, and it is said that, as far as sales are concerned, 16% of the planned sales were made. As far as the lease is concerned, 50% was leased from the planned lease, or a 50% concession from the planned lease. The return of land is written as forecasted, but is not said to be returned. Why do I ask myself that? I wonder precisely because of my Konavans who were unjustly left without land, and by the Law on property compensation seized during the South-Communist rule, which was adopted in '96. The year is determined when it comes to agricultural land that it returns to the owners. I've learned from the damaged citizens that the objects have been in drawers for a long time and that only part has been returned so far. Unfortunately, it is used in pre-election meetings to promise that the grandfathers will be returned, but the grandfathers of my Covans have not been returned. I wonder how long. When it comes to private agricultural land, two problems are listed. These are the constant trend of depletion of parcels and the unusability of agricultural land parcels for agricultural production. Only by selling state-owned land or buying private agricultural land is not enough to round up the property which is actually the goal, as we see in this bill. We're wondering what the relationship is with the small owners of agricultural land. Surely these are not people, or households, who deliberately refuse to produce, who do not purposely process on their own property. How do we treat them with this law? Yesterday I spoke to one of my fellow citizens who gave me her vision. Namely, her father planted the vine for table grapes. It worked, four children were raised on it, and they learned how to process the earth, and they were educated. Father sold his products at the market or hotels. But the privatisation of hotel houses began to apply new rules of business where there was no place for the products of small farmers from my Konaval and parish. Contingents of vegetables from various countries of questionable quality are imported. If there were more incentives, stimulation, education, there would certainly be more processing areas, there would certainly be more farmland processed. This bill encroachs on the freedom of private ownership. Obligations are prescribed that the country must be maintained capable of agricultural production and processed without reducing its value and penalties for non-treatment are also prescribed. As already mentioned in a few discussions, in 2002, the coalition authority in the Tax Law adopted a provision that allowed the local administration to charge taxes on unprocessed land. Of course, however, the Constitutional Court declared it unconstitutional and abolished, and now that category is being reintroduced. Agricultural land owned by the state is available on the basis of the programme, which I mentioned earlier, by the unit of local self-government, and also by the handling of sales and leases of private agricultural land are also carried out by units of local self-government, since we heard on Friday in discussions about possible corruption of the same, then not keeping the law, regulations, criteria, who will control these possible benefits. Finally, the solution proposed in Article 24(1) should be reviewed when an actual case of construction of a golf course is listed among investors who are exempt from fees when changing the use of agricultural land. I am encouraging, however, should be encouraged in a different way, not freeing fees, and that is why I am thinking that this should be reconsidered. Since it is said that agricultural land of good general interest, I propose, as well as my predecessors, my colleagues from the SDP, that the bill goes into third reading and I certainly will not vote for such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21764	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will be held today at 13:30 in the room "Eugen Quaternika" room number 233. It's Mr. Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21765	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So far, the Agricultural Land Act has been the greatest work available to the state of agricultural land. The country-owned land programme for its territory has so far brought units of local self-government with the agreement of the ministry. In Croatia there are 541 units of local self-government, 70 of which do not have state agricultural land, and 95 municipalities or cities have not yet built their own programme. The application of the law in practice has shown that there are a number of obstacles that slow down the process of availability to agricultural land owned by the state through sales, leases and concessions. The result is a constant trend in depletion of our production plots and reduction of land area by agricultural economy. A particular problem is not the use of agricultural areas for agricultural production. The total agricultural area in Zadar County comprises 231 thousand 746 hectares of which 68 thousand 976 hectares are arable areas, and the rest are pastures. According to the 2003 agricultural list, there were 14 thousand 413 units with agricultural production of 14 thousand 392 households and 21 business entities. On average, one unit of regulations used 1.46 hectares of agricultural land on a total of 5 and more parcels. In the area of 13 units of local self-government there are agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia, and under the laws so far on agricultural land, the towns of Biograd, Benkovac, Nin, and the municipalities of Posedarje have adopted available programmes and carried out competitions and signed contracts on the lease and sale of agricultural land owned by the state to a total thousand hectares. For the areas planned for the concession, the competition was opened by the former Ministry of Agriculture for the good of the crow and... total area of 1,000 and 600 hectares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the area of the municipality of St. Filip Jakov, Škabrnja, Novigrad, Lišana Otrovička, Pakoštane, Zemunik all the municipalities have brought available programmes and are in the final stages of the tender for the rental and sale of agricultural land. In total, there are about 900 hectares of agricultural land. The town of Pag has not received the ministry's consent to the proposed programme, and it is mainly pastures, and the Gracac municipality has not yet developed a programme of availability. The above data show that around 95% of agricultural land is privately owned, on a large number of small parcels, which is certainly the biggest obstacle to the organisation of intensive and economically sustainable production. Mrs. Shimac or colleagues from this data is evident that there has been no corruption, no conjecture that you have now apostrophe in your debate. This law proposes the establishment of a central information system on agricultural land, which is formed on the basis of cataster data into its main database, constitutes a system for the identification of land particles. The central system also includes data on the availability of agricultural land, state and monitoring and protection of land. It is prescribed who participates in the maintenance of the system. It is also prescribed for legal and natural persons that land must be maintained capable of agricultural production and processed in accordance with technical measures, without reducing its value. The law tightens the conditions for changing the purpose of agricultural land. Apart from the current definitions, the change of purpose is considered to be an exploitation of sand, gravel, stone, clay, surface spears etc. The available programmes shall not reduce the agricultural areas that are in the production function. The proposal for a programme with accompanying documentation is exposed to public insight into the seat of the municipality or city and this programme means it takes 15 days, which has not been a practice so far. Agricultural land owned by the State is sold, leased for a long term lease and concession for fishermen to natural or legal persons on the basis of the programme. Prior to the adoption of the unit programme, local self-government cannot dispose of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Physical and legal persons shall have the primary right to purchase or lease, in accordance with a given order, provided that they accept the highest price offered by any bidder that meets the tender conditions and that the offer shall be accompanied by a natural economic programme for the use of agricultural land. If the highest price offered in the tender for sale or lease by the tenderer that meets the tender conditions exceeds the double amount of the initial price, such an offer shall be considered not to be valid. Agricultural land owned by the State shall be leased to a natural or legal person engaged in agricultural production for a period of 20 years. It's a long lease for 50 years. The long-term lease shall include production technology units covering cadastarous agricultural land particles provided for by the long-term programme for long-term leases. In order to carry out agricultural land mining and agricultural land management improvements, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established the Agricultural Land Agency as a specialised public institution by means of a regulation. The Agency shall implement the funds under this law, the state budget, the performance of its activities and from other sources, the means under the conditions laid down in the instrument of establishment and the Statute. The procedure and way of purchasing agricultural land, as well as the management of land funds, is governed by this law. The implementation of this law is expected to introduce greater discipline in the re-use of agricultural land, the establishment of a core agricultural holding that will have a long-term perspective for agricultural producers in terms of land potential. The start of the process of rounding up agricultural holdings, from private agricultural land funds, as well as increased transport to private land. The establishment of an information system will improve the management of agricultural land. Speeding up the availability of state land is a top priority that needs to be achieved by law enforcement, and ponds need to be provided with a long-term basis for further development of concession giving, and the establishment of the agency will speed up rounding processes as well as the overall process of agricultural land availability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21766	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21767	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. So if the legal status of agricultural land were only a question of rights then we would probably easily solve the problem. Since the issue of agricultural land is not only legal but economically specific, the social issue is the question of both the future of the village and the sustainable development of our village, I think the Agricultural Land Act requires a much more serious approach than this bill has done. In fact, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia speaks in several articles about ownership and, in Articles 50 and 52, speaks of land as of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia and any restriction on ownership rights on land is decided by the Croatian Parliament through law. But the draft law does not respect Article 30. The law on ownership, Article 30, states that the owner has, among other things, the right to use, use and dispose of his belongings, and the proposed law in Article 5, is not approximately, but specifically, saying that the units of local self-government will have agricultural land owned by the state. So they took the right, offered the Croatian Parliament the right to transfer land owned by the state to local self-government units. Is that what we want or not? I don't think we can. Here's why. Last Friday, we voted on amendments to the Law on Property and other real rights where we excluded agricultural land from the right to be bought by citizens of the European Union countries within a certain period. And now we're opening up to say robbery to the most important national good. If we excluded the capital and representatives of the countries of the European Union, we did so in order not to buy the ownership of the agricultural land from representatives of the European Union because our farmer is now the owner of agricultural land, and the country would go for cheap money to representatives of other countries, but when it comes to our tycoon, we will now open the peach completely. So we open again to say in this way the legitimate robbery of the most valuable goods in Croatia, agricultural land in the era of crisis. If this is a political message, then I will also submit to both the proposer and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the representatives of the majority in the Croatian parliament, if they pass such a law, it will be the participation of the political position in the sin of structures. It will be a re-participation in the sin of structures, because in the crisis it opens up the sale of agricultural land and in a way that the property of the state is actually transferred to municipalities and that it is from the private owners that I say so, although the law knows only one property can be taken quietly and most easily forced to sell. Here are a few articles to illustrate my claim. I already mentioned article 5. In Article 15, private-owned agricultural land not processed by the administrative body of the municipality or the city will decide to lease it without the question of the owner. In Article 18, on agricultural land owned by the State again, without question, we generally transfer the right to establish a service without establishing any particular interest in this service. And for every service, every property must be decided by law. But look at the absurd. When it comes to fees for turning agricultural land into other purposes, then it's a 50% difference to say compensation up to 25% is 100% and does not explain what interests it is to determine such a fee. There is no economic reason that supports 25, 50 or 100%. Why? And the worst thing I could read was that he was completely free of paying a fee to turn agricultural land into another is building a golf course. Is the golf course of special interest to the Republic of Croatia? If you do, give us an argument and we'll vote on it. Once again in Article 30, agricultural land owned by the Republic shall be owned by municipalities or local units on the basis of programmes brought again by that municipality or local unit. Or, Article 30, agricultural land owned by the State is sold or leased by a public tender, etc., the decision to open a public tender for the sale and lease of agricultural land shall be taken by the municipal or city council and shall be a state property decided by this Parliament in fact. But if I don't bother you with all this, I'm just going to read some more of this, which states Article 81. So it's really about private property, it's not about our shared ownership, it's about the individual. He says, "The process of selling and renting private agricultural land is carried out by the local self-government unit on behalf of and on behalf of the agency." Well, everyone knows there's no more rights to be passed on than the owner himself has. So that the agency would sell something on behalf of and for the agency's account if it hadn't already become hers. So she could give someone a table to sign up for land books, because she passed it on to him, if she didn't become the owner. Here he says on behalf of the agency and that private property. I simply must say that it is too weak a qualification of this law that it is not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In times of crisis, I repeat, when the government says we're hanging out on the end, we're in bananas, we're doing a law on the sale of agricultural land, both state and agricultural, and to whom. Well, to those who own our banks. It is clear here that as soon as possible the round property is black, and then after we enter the European Union and when the citizens of the European Union are able to buy it, sell it, as we have sold for a few times the price. I repeat again, those who participate in the adoption of such a law will certainly participate in the sin of structure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21768	Thank you very much. Next up, honourable representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21769	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. The agricultural land distribution programme, owned by the state for its territory, brings units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, of course with the agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture, if we know that we have 541 units of local self-government in Croatia, then we must say that 70 of them have no state land and 95 municipalities and cities have not yet developed their own programme. The programmes that were agreed by the Ministry of Agriculture included a total of 531 thousand 675 hectares of agricultural land. Agricultural land under this law is good for the Republic of Croatia, which has its special protection. Agricultural land cannot acquire real legal persons through legal work unless the international contract provides otherwise. Agricultural land, are considered agricultural areas, orans, gardens, meadow meadows, orchards, olive groves, vineyards, ponds, etc. When we talk about the final bill, then it is important to say that this law determines the protection of the use and change of the use of agricultural land, as has been said so far and so much so far, the establishment of an information system, agricultural land, the availability of agricultural land owned by the state, the availability of unprocessed agricultural land, the establishment and the activity of the agency, etc. The Ministry of Agriculture will establish an information system which is very important about the data on agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. The information system is for the purpose of effective management of agricultural land and market monitoring of agricultural land, the information system consists of the following subsystems. Therefore, we have an information system for the availability of agricultural land owned by the State, an information subsystem on the availability of agricultural land owned by natural and legal persons, an information subsystem on the maintenance and protection of agricultural land. Agricultural land must be maintained capable of agricultural production. The maintenance of agricultural land capable of agricultural production is considered to be a prevention of its hardening and deforestation by years of growth. We are certainly witnessing in our units of local self-government that in every area we have a lot of areas that have just grown, which have grown into weeds and certainly this law will contribute to better land management in all units of local self-government. In order to facilitate the production of healthy food, to protect the health of people of the animal and plant world, the uninterrupted use and protection of nature and the environment, the protection of agricultural land against pollution is carried out. Legal or natural persons are obliged to monitor the state of agricultural land used on the basis of leases, long-term leases and concessions for ponds. Legal and natural persons who pollute agricultural land with harmful substances so that agricultural production on that land is reduced or disabled are obliged to pay compensation to owners or authorised land which has not been the case so far. Legal or natural persons shall, in the case of pollution on their cost, carry out the recovery of agricultural land in a manner and within a time limit established by the Ministry on the basis of the expert opinion of the Institute. When we talk about protection we also have agritechnical measures to protect agricultural land from erosion, there is certainly a restriction or a complete ban on cutting fruit trees apart from cutting for agrotechnical reasons. Limiting and exploiting pastures, prescribing species and the number of cattle, and pasting times and ways, banning meadows, pastures and unprocessed areas on steep land. And I think we're witnesses, too, and we've seen the Austrians do it best. You can easily see that there is not a single hill that has not been processed, and we have probably wondered many times how and how they process it. While our case so far has been that such land has simply not been processed. And certainly this law will try to protect exactly that kind of surface, primarily to be processed. And then certainly that in all our settlements and as I have told the units of local self-government are just, primarily in our villages set up one production and it is certainly cattle production and will ultimately produce results. A private-owned agricultural land which is not processed, in accordance with agritechnical measures and not processed during the previous vegetative period may be leased to a natural or legal person for a period of 3 years with a lease fee to the owner of the land. Agricultural land in private ownership that has grown by several years of growth can be leased to natural or legal persons for up to 10 years with the rent of landowners. Of course, in this way, we're going to force everyone else to do whatever they want to do here, no matter what they're trying to say to the left, that it's against the constitution that we have to realize once again that whoever wants to farm the country, whoever wants to do the livestock production, has to provide enough land. However, we are witnessing that certain units of local self-government have sufficient quantities than I said at the outset and have not. So if the land is private and the same owner doesn't want to process it, it's logical that someone should be given that land to be processed and I don't see what's unconstitutional. So no one gets taken away. No one's getting kidnapped. It is only this law that says that it is those who do not process that give opportunity and, of course, with compensation that we see nothing that is contrary to any law. When we talk about fees, compensation is paid towards the surface of a building particle, residential or other building. It is also as it will be said that all those speculators who have so far used such things are prevented from buying agricultural land and later turning it, I don't know, into a building zone or anything else. For agricultural land which is located outside the construction area on the date of entry into force of this law and after the change of the spatial plan is covered by the limits of the construction area, the amount of the compensation shall be determined in the amount of 50% of the average land price within the boundaries of the construction area. In particular, the farm land which is situated outside the building area at the date of entry into force of this law and after the change of the spatial plan is covered by the boundaries of the construction area, the amount of the compensation shall be determined at 100% of the average land price within the building area limits. For agricultural land located within the construction area, the amount of compensation shall be set at 25% of the average price. Agricultural land owned by the State is sold or leased, long-term lease and concession for fishermen to natural and legal persons on the basis of the programme. Also when we talk about mined areas, then agricultural land owned by the state must be specifically marked and can be foreseen for lease or long-term lease. Of course there is now a matter of demining, who will and how will pay, will it go on the burden of one who takes the lease or on the burden of the state? Of course, it certainly needs to be seen. Areas, pastures and meadows owned by the state located in protected areas in national parks and nature parks, agricultural land purchased by the agricultural land agency, agricultural land purchased by the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation are not included in the programme. The units of local self-government are obliged to determine in the programme a maximum area which can be sold to a particular natural or legal person in accordance with the specific decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And here's the secretary of state, here's just to say where we said that when it comes to the purchase priority, whether it's an agency or a local self-government, I'd also advocate that the purchase priority has a local self-government, but that's what we said we'd still hear about it and I don't know where we came from. But in any case, I support the adoption of this law, and I believe that this law will certainly bring prosperity to agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21770	Thank you very much. I ask you to stick to the approved time, especially if you read the reasons of the proposed laws. We have one replica. The replica was reported by MP Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21771	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I would just look back on the thesis that Article 15 is not taken away by anyone else, of course not in terms of ownership. However, if someone takes someone else’s agricultural land in a lease and makes it impossible for someone to use it for 10 years, it is, of course, a serious restriction on ownership that may be justified. I agree that agricultural land should be brought to the fore. And what I find controversial in this, therefore, is not a goal that wants to be achieved but a way for reasons, because we can see at least from this that Article 15 is formulated that the owner does not have any, any possibility of participating in the process, or perhaps disproveing the facts on which the decision on the assignment of land would be based. Therefore, the administrative body lays down these criteria and simply concludes the contract by the mayor or the chief. I wonder where there's legal protection for a owner who may not agree with that, who may consider it to be some kind of abuse. I would suggest if it's in any way possible to install some system of protection of the owner's rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21772	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, MP Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21773	Thank you very much. Well, I've just been apostrophe here and I've said, and it's from your exposure, not just from, I don't know of one colleague, but you're here to really interpret that the country is being kidnapped, and I was just saying that all those abandoned areas that are privately owned must be processed, so how can you simply process those land if I own it won't allow it? Well, of course, it needs to be taken away, not taken away as a right and property, but it certainly needs to be paid a lease, but it needs land to be used, not to stand still weeds and squires like, and you keep saying that that's where constitutional rights are being violated, that the land is being kidnapped as if we're in socialism, but I think we've been through it a long time ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21774	Thank you very much. It is time for the debate, the distinguished representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21775	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Secretary of State and Associates. Here I will speak very briefly to 3, 4 affirmative things and in my opinion the two, three things that are in the proposal of this, in the second reading of the proposal of this Agricultural Land Act are questionable to me. Here I will immediately go with this famous, perhaps not Article 15, although the law prescribes traffic and the availability of private agricultural land whose tender procedure is carried out by administrative bodies means municipalities and cities. In my view, it is questionable because some of our municipalities on the ground, even the chief volunteer, do not have a team and a team that should carry out the tendering process, already have state-owned agricultural land and have now been given the task of also having agricultural, private land. I think that in education and professional assistance to municipalities and cities we should do the county and the Office of State Administration on the ground. I have observed this in these years that this would be necessary in the field to help municipalities who do not have an educated professional capacity to make available to agricultural land regardless of the form of availability. I would like to say, as regards the reasons for Article 36, this is good and affirmative in the exercise of the right of the buying championship, i.e. the lease I highlight among other well-scheduled criteria, because those agricultural producers who are in their programme are engaged in livestock production and are of course included in the operational programme of availability of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In short, I would also like to say about Article 39. By stopping our land-class obligations, we know that the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth class and then the tax administration at the request of the municipality or city determines the initial price according to the class of land. The initial price now determines the ministry, determines the minister by his act. I think that procedure, correspondence between the municipality, cities and the ministry, will delay or extend the availability process regardless of what kind of availability it is. I would also like to say about article 54, as well as the affirmative, long-term law, 50 years is achieved until the moment when the heir who signed the contract ceases to process the country for any reason. I think the inheritance is prevented from selling, i.e. land remains owned by the Republic of Croatia. And something that makes me very happy and happy, which is Article 60. It's a concession for ponds. In Brod-Posavina County we have these are the largest ponds of freshwater fish in this part of Europe. 1200 ha of ponds are not engaged, not in use because they are located in three catastrian municipalities in Brod-Posavina County, and the competition was opened by that municipality where the most surface ponds are located. There was no agreement and now I'm glad that this new law on availability... that the ponds are also in the concession, and I believe that I will because the lack of freshwater fish in the market is far better for those ponds who receive the concession, the supply of the Croatian market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And something I said a month ago, two days ago. Now I'll do it again. The return of agricultural land. My colleagues and colleagues, there's a problem in the field. I speak from practice, because I was both the deputy mayor and the head and mayor. By 31.12.1997, everyone had applied for the return of agricultural land. And what happens to changes and additions, what happens now? For example, two brothers and two sisters. By 31.12.1997, one of them submitted a request for return, and now you see this is the only one who has submitted the request. And it turns out that whoever filed the motion failed, hid his brother, his sister, and there was a conflict in the family, and we didn't need it. Why couldn't one of those, three, four members have filed a request and certainly all that was taken back. And I think it's not fair, and it's not about the Ministry of Agriculture, but it's supposed to work synchronisedly between the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Administration, which is that those farmers, I repeat again for the second time, who have a 1097 kuna supply, have no right to income support. This is not fair to them, for provision is not a pension. Thank you very much. I will also support the proposal for this agricultural land law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21776	Next in line for the debate is the distinguished representative Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21777	Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing a final proposal for a agricultural land law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has delivered to us in its act of 21 November 2008 which means that it is not a law with P.Z.E. signifying how the first debate was held in July, the debate in the first reading in July of this year. During the debate mentioned, a number of remarks and proposals that went in the direction of improving the provisions and texts of the law itself, which were discussed by the applicant and partly accepted, i.e. embedded in the text of the final draft of the law. This approach guarantees us a significant step forward in relation to the existing situation at least when it comes to a legislative framework that regulates land policy, and we are well aware that without a quality legislative framework there are no assumptions for the implementation of quality policy regardless of the matter being regulated. Of course, a number of proposals and remarks have not been accepted, with an explanation of how proposals already regulated by other specific regulations or those directly conflicting with the intensities of the law itself, i.e. the identification of the applicant, which is a personally acceptable explanation for me. I find it important to mention one fact that has particularly pleased me by reading the explanation of the Final Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land. As proposals and remarks by the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been accepted or not. Whether they came from opposition clubs or from ruling clubs or representatives. So the only criterion was the quality of the proposal, which is really for every commendation. I would like to highlight something at the very beginning of my concrete debate on the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, which is nothing new, because many have said that thought before me, but I personally think it is not a waste, and it reads: “The key to agricultural development is a quality land policy. However, in order to implement quality land policy, we also need high quality assumptions for its life, and a fundamental quality assumption and a quality legal, or legislative framework. I personally believe that the proposed Agricultural Land Act will, with certain qualitative corrections that I believe will also create healthy foundations for a more future quality land policy. Let us now start from the situation we currently have, and we will come to the conclusion that a new direction is really needed in land policy that will contribute to a more quality protection of agricultural land and its preservation, to the formation of a core of agricultural holdings with a clear and long-term market perspective, to the process of rounding them up, to the acceleration of the process of availability and holding agricultural land regardless of whether it is state or private land and finally increasing the used agricultural areas and putting into operation until now unused agricultural land. In Croatia, we have a total of 2 million 695 thousand hectares of agricultural land, of which 67% are privately owned, while 33% is owned by the state. If we take the data from the register of agricultural holdings, we come to a devastating knowledge of the use of agricultural land for agricultural purposes, since just over a million hectares were included in the register, and on the other hand, the current Agricultural Land Act had a total of ten percent of the total agricultural area, or thirty percent of the state-owned agricultural land, i.e. for only 269 thousand 510 hectares, the procedures were completed through the rental, sale and concession institutions. This general state is quite understandable if we consider how the 2001 Agricultural Land Act in force, which has seen several changes and additions over the coming years, with the aim of improving land policy, has been applied only to state agricultural land. While records and data on what was happening to private agricultural land did not exist, and if we consider the non-compliance of the real state of agricultural land with the land-book situation and data from the cataster. This condition is the main cause of the long-term and complexity of the prescribed procedures for agricultural land and of the aforementioned devastating situation in this segment, I hope I can freely say state action. If we add to the previous negative trends in the depletion of agricultural parcels and the constant re-use of agricultural land and the problems of unprocessed agricultural land, we come to a clear conclusion. How the 2001 Agricultural Land Act cannot meet the new challenges and becomes a limiting factor in the implementation of quality land policy as a fundamental assumption of further development of the agricultural sector in the Republic of Croatia. It was precisely for the sake of the above that it was necessary to propose a new Agricultural Land Act which would create assumptions about the fundamental objectives of land policy that I had already spoken of, and could simply come to the next. Increase agricultural production by putting into service unused agricultural land so far and by enabling the rounding of agricultural holdings by encouraging, better regulation and market control of agricultural land independently of its ownership. Discussing the final proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land and of certain provisions thereof, which was a lot to discuss during this debate, but first reading should bear in mind Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which, among other things, determines agricultural land as well as of interest to the Republic of Croatia which has its special protection, is, of course, provided for by a special law governing that matter. I therefore personally believe that I am not a legal expert that certain provisions of the proposed law on private agricultural land are in full compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, because in particular ownership is not only a right, but a obligation and responsibility. Allow me a few more sentences about what the new Agricultural Land Act is giving us and what its newspaper is compared to the applicable law. Therefore, the Final Proposal of the Agricultural Land Act provides for and provides for the following provisions: the establishment of a central information system on agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, the introduction of penalties for natural and legal persons who do not keep the land capable of agricultural production and the protection measures against pollution of agricultural land. Strengthening the conditions for changing the use of agricultural land, where the use of sand, gravel, clay, stone and so on is considered a change, and in the context of tightening these conditions, compensation for changing the use of agricultural land has also been significantly raised. Therefore, my wish here is to warn, and I think it is necessary to warn, however, that there is a need to take care not to seek the protection of agricultural land and the development of the agricultural sector to slow down other construction and development of other sectors of the economy. I hope that in this context there will be an amendment either from the government itself or from certain clubs. It is also prescribed that agricultural land owned by the state, so basic institutes continue to be sold and leased, with the lease being paid for 20 years and a new institute being introduced, which is a long-term lease of 50 years and a concession for fishermen also for 50 years. The possibility of making available to minimum agricultural areas owned by the State and what is important to note is that any natural person or legal person demining agricultural land within 2 years shall be entitled to a free lease within 10 years. Introducing the possibility of renting private agricultural land for a period of 3 years and 10 years, respectively. A process for making private agricultural land available is being introduced. Therefore, the lease and sale process of private agricultural land which local self-government units should carry out in the future on behalf of and for the account of the Agricultural Land Agency, which means that the owners of the agricultural land will not be able to lease or sell their land in the way they have done so so far, i.e. without a prior procedure carried out by the local self-government unit. I believe that the aim of the promoter is good when it comes to the availability of private agricultural land, but I think I am a little hasty because I see that I am running out of time, I think it is possible to regulate it much more effectively and, let's say the ownership rights remain at a higher level, while also retaining the first purchase right by the Agricultural Land Agency, which is the provision of Article 82 of the proposed law and envisaged. It also envisions the establishment of a final Agricultural Land Agency as a specialised public institution for the operation of agricultural land mining and the improvement of land management. Finally, due to my personal belief that the implementation of the new agricultural land law with certain corrections based on proposed constructive amendments by the proposings and individual clubs themselves will make a significant contribution to achieving the basic objectives of the land policy and improve further development of the agricultural sector, I will personally support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21778	Thank you very much. It is next to the honourable representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21779	Madam Vice President, esteemed representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I will briefly say something about the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, with the immediate beginning of saying that this final bill cannot be supported and my suggestion is that this law goes into third reading. What is controversial in this law, and many of my predecessors have already pointed out this, is Article 15, which regulates that private agricultural land can be leased for 3 or 10 years without the consent of the owner, so it is in direct contrast to Article 48. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which guarantees the right of ownership and I believe that the provision of the law is unsustainable, of course the constitutionality of this will be checked by the Constitutional Court. Also, Article 81, which regulates the sale of private agricultural land again, can be said that it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because the right of ownership is limited, so the owner of the agricultural land is obliged to give to the Agency. So the availability of private agricultural land is limited to the law of the Agricultural Land Agency, which is unsustainable, I will say it in plastic terms. Imagine that over all apartments in the Republic, Croatian owners would not be able to sell apartments but should trust them to be sold on their behalf by the Real Estate Agency, meaning APN known for that name. This is unsustainable and I think that the proposer of the sea of these parts means Article 15 and Article 81 to amend it because this is certainly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. restricts private owners of agricultural land to freely dispose of their land because they are obliged to offer this land to the Agency means if they want to sell it, i.e. lease it independently of which category. I will also mention Article 92 where it is prescribed that land owners who do not process agricultural land are punished, natural persons with fines of 500 to 15 thousand kuna. It is known that it is mostly farmers' nursing households who are unable to process this agricultural land because of age or disease, and it is certain that 15 thousand kuna fines is more than the annual income of these peasant households. I think this is about penalties for the poor or for taxes on the poor rather than for the promoter to think about taxes on luxury, taxes on yachts, taxes on villas, taxes on expensive cars. Here we punish, I will say, a rural economy which, due to age or disease, is not able to process this agricultural land. I think so, and I've already heard such comments that these citizens are afraid of their own country. I don't think that's right, and I think the bill promoter should go with one positive approach, and a positive approach is that the agency that will form can from such peasant or rural economies, households that are not able to neither system of repression or punishment but offer to rent their land or if they want to sell to that agency. So without coercion, I think we'll get the same result. And fourthly, that's an article 39 that regulates the start of selling or renting agricultural land owned by the state. The fact is that even in this article, although it does not show such a price, the tax administration has done so. In my first reading, too, I mentioned that this article is discriminatory. Discriminating for reasons I think that the initial price in the territory of the Republic of Croatia should be unique because it is impossible, I think it is impossible, for example. I will say in Istria County, but we can say in other coastal counties that price of agricultural land moves up to 14 euros. If someone buys a hectare of land that's about 140 thousand euros, then a million kunas should be given for a farm land hector. There is no agricultural culture that will be able to pay or be profitable at such a hectare, unless it is purchased for some speculative reasons, these reasons should be prevented. It may be profitable only to plant truffles, but it has not yet succeeded in growing plantations. So I still think that this provision of the law is discriminatory, that it can be improved and that the ministry can set a single price for agricultural land, whether it sells or leases for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and certainly prevents those speculators who would like to buy the land for some other interests, means that they turn it into construction or similar later. And finally another sentence. Here's what I'm curious about, and maybe the proposer or the promoter will tell me, will the fines be paid by the state to its unprocessed agricultural land? Today, we own 890,000 and 214 hectares of land that is owned by the state, and only 269,000 and 509 are under some kind of contract, meaning whether or not it's a concession or a lease. So 630 hectares were not sold, not leased, or 630 thousand hectares, that 630 thousand 705 were not leased. According to this punishment should be paid by the state, I believe that the agricultural inspection will be as zealous to the state as it is to the rural economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21780	It is up to the individual debate, the respected representative Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21781	Madam Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Agricultural land within the meaning of this law is considered agricultural areas, oranica, gardens, meadows, pastures, orchards as well as other land which can be brought into agricultural production. The Ministry of Agriculture will establish an information system on agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of more efficient agricultural land management and market monitoring of agricultural land and market monitoring of agricultural land. Local self-government units are obliged to dispose of country-owned agricultural land in such a way as to maintain the capacity for agricultural production. The land in the construction area and the land outside the area planned by the spatial planning documents for the construction of the sea shall be kept capable of agricultural production and used until not for agricultural purposes as agricultural land. The protection of agricultural land against pollution shall be carried out by prohibiting, restricting and preventing or directly entering and entering water and air harmful substances and taking other measures to preserve and improve their fertility. Legal and natural persons who pollute agricultural land with harmful substances so that agricultural production on that land is reduced or disabled, shall be obliged to pay compensation to landowners or landowners. A private-owned agricultural land not processed in accordance with agritechnical measures and not previously processed in a vegetative period may be leased to a natural or legal person for up to three years with a lease fee to the owner of the land. The change in the purpose of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes shall be carried out in accordance with the spatial arrangements and other regulations. Especially valuable farmland within the meaning of this law are the most qualitative areas of agricultural land intended for agricultural production, which enable the most efficient use of agricultural technology by form, position and size. Valuable farm land within the meaning of this law are the areas of agricultural land suitable for agricultural production by its natural properties, form, position and size. The change in the purpose of agricultural land is also considered to be the exploitation of sand, gravel, stone, ciglar and potter clay, surface spears, and the creation of a dump of solid and liquid waste and other mineral raw materials, the construction of sports fields and objects within the meaning of a special law. Agricultural land owned by the State shall be sold and awarded to fishermen by natural or legal persons on the basis of the programme. The mineral areas of agricultural land owned by the State must be specifically marked and can be foreseen for lease or long-term lease. The local self-government unit may limit in its programme the maximum area that can be leased to an individual natural or legal person. Agricultural land owned by the State shall be sold or leased by a public tender to be published through public ballots or on an advertising board of the municipality or city. Agricultural land owned by the State may also be leased to a natural or legal person, a person engaged in agricultural activities. The lease for the lease of agricultural land owned by the State shall be paid annually. The agricultural land owned by the State leased cannot be leased. The tenant cannot transfer his right from the lease agreement to another person. The long-term lease of agricultural land owned by the country for agricultural production is given at 50 years. The natural or legal persons referred to in Article 56 of this Act shall principally have the right to long-term lease in accordance with the order laid down, provided that the maximum amount of compensation submitted by the tenderers is accepted and that the economic programme is attached to the offer. I support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21782	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21783	Thank you, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will limit my debate on the amendment and addition of the Agricultural Land Act to that segment of spatial planning and space management. So, the Agricultural Land Act, in any case, I think it is necessary, welcome and that it is trying to regulate what has not been regulated so far. Part of my debate is based on the experience of agrarian reforms from the past and on the knowledge that the areas as agrarians were assigned to someone, and this one was reselling them for the construction of cottages or houses. In any case, the Agricultural Land Act affirms the development of agriculture, taking into account one of the economic activities of the Republic of Croatia which may also be exportable. It is known that the agricultural areas of the Republic of Croatia are four times greater than the needs of the state itself, hence large economic reserves of Croatia, of course if used. Another reason why this law is welcome, it presents a certain way of warning to the planners that they refer to the area in a rational way, not to place building surfaces on agricultural land, but to accommodate them on as few valuable surfaces as possible, so that they can access them with a lot of caution and a lot more rationality compared to planning. The third reason, that's why I support this, is the intensity to prevent speculation with the land that is created because of the re-use so that the surfaces of the minor value are transformed into construction profits at the expense of general interest. Of course, reducing possible speculation would also prevent possible corruption that is so often warned about. When we talk about space and the use of space, we are aware today that after many fires that unfortunately hit Croatia, we see that when the pine forest burns below it we find vineyards. Therefore, in this respect, it should not be spoken against those returning the agricultural area after the fire, which restores olives and vineyards, because this is also an increase in agricultural areas. It is also important to increase agricultural areas, deforestation, the conversion of debris into agricultural useful land, regardless of whether it is planted with vineyards or olive trees. I think the experience of nearly 2,000 hectares of such new agricultural areas has been gained and very valuable and should be supported. But all this together shows that we need to discuss agriculture more systematically and that this is why the law is welcome. However, from the point of view of its application in relation to what is important, which is the development of Croatia that we cannot observe without entrepreneurial interests, in the interest of individuals and the whole society as a whole, we must make sure that this one development, especially in times of today's financial crisis, does not stop. I don't think the principles laid down in this law prevent it, but perhaps the instruments and the application of these instruments are not in the best way regulated. Two important categories of certain remarks or suggestions on how to work this out better, I am in the correctness of cadastrian enrolments because I think if the question of fees that are logical to happen, if they are based not on cadastrian enrolments that are 80 years old, 100 years old or not at all, and not on what is today found on the ground. I think it would be very wrong. The second thing that seems to me to bring one balance to this is the question of the definition of agricultural land, as agricultural land is defined. And also one reinterpretation of the first and second categories of agricultural land of value. If those categories were to be reduced to what is exact, and it is exactly what is written in the cataster, then if agricultural land were treated as orans, orchards, meadows, pastures as it is in the cataster, then the compensation would be fairer and not subject to an individual appraisal would belong to the first or second class. So one land categorization with inventory of the burial situation in Croatia would be more than welcome. But what may not have been covered by this law, and it would be good to include some amendments or some additions, these are cases that we find in practice in interpreting certain officials to treat something. For the sake of illustrations, I ask the question, is the garden decorated as a farm garden, whether it belongs to such a category, and will someone also be affected by building that house and building a garage in the garden? One little thing but that can lead to different interpretations in application of nature. Also one question about the consistency of fair access, if compensation is paid for transfers from agricultural to construction, theoretically there is a chance that the construction will turn into agricultural, is that stimulated? Whether those not building surfaces, i.e. agricultural areas or agricultural areas of small value by processing, by their efforts, by technology, etc. rise to greater value, will they get certain stimuli to appear in the market as such? In such a way, the law would be well balanced in relation to both the compensation and the other part. The amount of compensation itself in general, I think should relate to the market value of agricultural land, not to some average land prices. Because in such a way it would lead to greater equality of the area in Croatia with more agricultural land, agricultural land in other agricultural land has less or more attractiveness than other economic activities such as tourism, which is much more important in a particular area of Croatia than elsewhere. To conclude my debate in a way that I absolutely support the adoption of this law. I think a law like this is very necessary, but in order to be able to significantly improve this law by fine-tuning certain articles of this law or some minor amendments in terms of my debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21784	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21785	Thank you very much. Well, I completely agree, and I would like to join in perhaps if this law were different to the appeal of fellow Roshin in the sense that the planners must actually take care of what they are doing. However, as experience teaches us at least in Croatia, that the profession, then even the planners ultimately do not define or at least significantly fail to determine spatial plans, but are already doing so by different local organisations and politicians. I just think that this law as it goes because of insufficiently clear criteria will allow for what we have so far made possible by bad laws in the field of planning, etc. who don't actually prescribe clear criteria. So it could just happen that my land that's being built today is going to be agricultural or vice versa tomorrow. It just seems to me that with this law, someone's country is actually going to go to the drum, and someone's not going to the drum. And if we should take care of both planning and availability and property management anywhere, then I think it's land. Because the only thing we need in Croatia to say like that, the rest is worth it, it's land. In fact, it seems to me that this law will take us along with some other laws, that we will get an even bigger cacophony, or a mess in space. Because, de facto, you simply once again have an administrative decision to disburse someone, or you can please someone, in which variant and when and at what price they will put you, rather than this parcel for sale. And that's what I actually think this law carries. With all the systematic, some kind of bad solutions, especially leaving somehow the discretionary right of some administration in the local self-government unit, to actually manipulate that land.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21786	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Roshin's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21787	Comrade Lucin, thank you for the replica, even though I'm not honest with you, I understand very well what you have opposed me. Because I was saying that my debate would be limited to spatial planning, not the possibility of selling or not selling land. In any case, the planners should plan the space well, so as not to happen, such as the former Neregiscess, where on a fertile ground in the Nerežišce, the Nerežišces were named after the Nerezinas, an infertile soil. So, on the only little fertile surface comes a factory that has taken that agricultural surface off. So that's the question of proper planning. Was that a political decision then or not, that's a different story. But at that time, I hope today's planning can and may be significantly better. Your fears can always be expressed. But in the planning segment, the planner doesn't care whose country it is, not what it's worth. It's got economic imputements, and it's supposed to run the place well, say what's best to put it in every place. Whether or not we're gonna do it, but I'm warning this warning to the planners that they're doing a little better than they've done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21788	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21789	I was hoping we'd vote, that's what it looked like. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. What about the bill's proposal without my predecessors saying it already? So, it's almost everything. for and against. However, despite the numerous arguments we have heard here, related to certain articles with the questionability of certain articles, the promoter continues to argue that this is a good law in all its segments that will improve Croatian agriculture and improve the position of peasants. It's this segment of me from the peasant position, to say it makes me sign up for the debate. First, because I am Slavonac, because I come from Vukovar-Srijem County in which agricultural areas occupy over 60% of the total area and which is a large number of people in Slavonia especially in Vukovar-Srijem County related to agriculture, so any change in any law affecting agriculture, especially the Law on Land, is very much maintained on the lives of these people. The second reason for the debate is that I have already reported to the Committee on Agriculture among the first to debate with Mr. Secretary of State about Article 81 which speaks about the management or availability of private agricultural land. Among other things, I also said that the law we are making should in any case be in the development and improvement of agriculture and the resolution of it I would say the most problematic part, which is land policy, but not in such a way that it enters into certain constitutional rights or that what has intrigued me more in this proposal to enter into some sort of basic traditional principles that the Slavonian peasant lives by. The constitutional rights and questions of Article 81 would not speak much of it because it has been said a lot, also as one of my predecessors said I am not a lawyer, so I could get lost in these things. However, it was very evident to me that there was a certain consensus in the first reading of the representatives’ clubs that pointed to the problem of this article. Therefore, both HDZ colleagues, both SDP and IDS, all pointed to the potential problem of this article. Since then, HDZ colleagues have clearly cleared up some of their constitutional doubts, and now everyone clearly supports the proposed form of law. But as far as I can tell, others who at that time have declared that they have doubts about the constitutionality of this article continue to hold that this article is not fully in line with the Constitution. What motivates me more is that part of the tradition. Since I am talking about the Law on Land with peasants, I am telling the peasants in the best sense because it is an honorable occupation in the Croatian village, especially in Slavonia, I received a whole series of questions as they are interested in this particular article 81, because it applies most to them. Often I remembered that famous rap tune of "Come to Vinkovce" sung by my fellow citizen and neighbor I would say who was talking about life in Slavonia and in my hometown where at one point he was talking about what Slavonac was thinking, what he was thinking, and at the moment of his life, and he said a strof of that song, "And when he gets me back up, I will thank him first for giving us a piece of land he saved for himself." Namely, this piece of land is not just some property financial benefit that can be counted in figures but represents one symbol of Slavonian peasants, so here are even the texts of modern tunes filled with such things because the country is a Slavonian peasant of its own kind, especially the country it owns in private. So I was not surprised by the many questions that were asked me in these conversations, and most of them only tied themselves to being with my private land, whether I would still be its owner, whether I would be able to dispose of it. The concept of availability is not only to enjoy the agricultural sense but also to walk in the extreme sense. I was told a story so I wouldn't repeat it now because it was a little bit in the Slavonic jargon, etc. a family case where literally a man set things up like this. Three children live in his family, i.e. three children, father and mother, two brothers, and one sister. As the oldest son for life he began to help his father do agricultural work but his father divided the country for life, it was about 30 acres [30 ha], he shared the land for life with his children. He died too soon, the country was divided, all of them owned by about 10 acres. In the meantime, children grew up, only the oldest son remained on the ground working and farming. The younger son graduated from dental school, got a job at a health care center while the daughter finished as a cook, did several jobs, and eventually got a job at sea as a permanent definition, found a boyfriend there, probably also getting married, etc. The question that they had on the table is whether there is a possibility that the country could be circled in such a way that they would sell, not leave, not give, but sell because everyone today needs money at one brother's price to their oldest brother in the country. Of course, they made an easy deal without considering whether this law should pass and knowing the law of the majority power in the Croatian Parliament would probably pass. Not thinking about whether he's been moving since 2010 or since 2009 this man has been in panic because he's wondering if they'll be able to sell it to me or if the agency is going to be doing it for him, his head of staff who before that is all the country as one of the numerous affairs has already been sold out as he said to his colleagues, and now my country is going to sell to me, which my father had been having a hard time selling to me. Article 81 says that unfortunately it will be, unfortunately because it is difficult for anyone with his father or his father to make land, to work, to do things like this, and I would say you know that people's "clean bill – long love". And the father wanted to make it clear between children and children that they wanted to clear each other up in such a way as to settle it in accordance with the law, sell, pay taxes, etc. They're getting into a situation where they're wondering if it's gonna be possible. What has been said is in the form that it is another fraud related to private land. I have to say that I share such an opinion partly because I am not prone to difficult qualifications, but in this sense it reminds me greatly of that. Unfortunately, this law I repeat will probably pass, I say unfortunately. You know for what reason? Which is obvious from some informal laws that this law pushes, in fact, the Croatian Peasant Party, which views itself as some kind of representative of Croatian villages and peasants. It's hard, it's hard to believe that agriculture can only be seen in a way that's global, not thinking about it like this, I'd say small-minded peasants on the ground. Therefore, precisely because of all the information I have received, I, of course, cannot support this law, I will vote against it. But I also agree with the many opinions expressed in this House, which is that this law should go into third reading. Well, maybe in the meantime, some things might work out. Just one more detail. It was very often referred to here as "the speculation of land", as if this law should prevent speculation of land and that "the speculation" of this guy to sell his brother to his sister, his brother. Anything called land speculation, talk to people in the countryside, they understand only one thing, which is the management of state land run by the commissioners who are now supposed to run the whole thing again. And when you talk about speculation, they see this, so this law as another space for further speculation. And as they say, I can see that this has also entered the record of one of the boards, which I personally heard on the ground, the Privatisation Fund has created economic tycoons, and this, therefore, agency could create land tycoons. But they don't give masters but to sell to foreigners for 10 years a multiple price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21790	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Goran Beus-Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21791	Dear Mr. Heffer, at one point it wasn't quite understandable, whether among the brothers, among the closest relatives, they were selling land, or not called speculation. This is not and cannot be land speculation, because if the law prevents brothers and sisters from agreeing to buy land after the desert divorce, at least one of them remains to enjoy land and remain on earth, if so, the law does not recognise it, but rather pushes it into another plan, and firstly pushes the agency that should have the right to buy, then the law is against the interest of the Croatian family. Furthermore, this law prevents people from choosing their neighbor. This law makes it impossible to help a neighbor round his land. This law prevents old people from selling land to young neighbours to deal with economic activity on larger land. This law also does not allow helping the neighbor to move away from the border, i.e. to enable the neighbor to build a house or an economic facility by purchasing land. This law does not allow even adjustments between neighbours, because each purchase is interpreted equally, identically. It is not a law that is in the interest of Croatian villages, peasants, especially Croatian families.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21792	Mr. Heffer's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21793	Dear colleague Beus, I thank you for your replica, namely, this is exactly how we discussed it on the Agriculture Committee when Mr. Secretary of State. This occasion, pointing to the most drastic form, which is within the family relationship, between brothers, sisters, father, mother, etc., was said at one point that this law would prevent depravity. This law, i.e. these forms of agreement within the family, is about rounding up and it's about rounding up, not about selling, it's about buying. The second thing, as an argument, is used against the notion that this is against the Croatian family, the country's rural family. As an argument, it was used to be controversial cases, that there are not many in Croatia, if there is not much, then it can be easier to exclude it from the law. At one point, I even mentioned that I would make an amendment that I would exempt from Article 81 from the family land sale. But later in thinking, consulting with some colleagues, I realized that it would be counterproductive, because I would admit that this law is good. And the fact that there are other items that I disagree with, this is just the most drastic, so I don't agree with the law, so I didn't make the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21794	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will complete the agenda as announced. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's move on. It's Mr. Boris Matkovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21796	Mr. President. Let them get out and I'll start.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21797	We're continuing the session. The word was received by Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21798	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, it's questionable what we can say after this exhaustive debate of the new one, but I hope that this humble contribution of mine may open something new, too, so it's obvious that a very comprehensive debate was on this subject, quite and rather opposed, but in some issues I hope we are even, and I personally believe that we all realize that it is a law that is extremely important and signifying, especially for us parliamentary representatives, because we are really those who would have to protect, or safeguard national wealth, and national wealth, so the agricultural land is first in the first place. So what this law does is actually absolutely familiar to all of us. It is therefore about the use, the change in the purpose of agricultural land, the protection of the availability of agricultural land owned by the state, the clarity that the units of local self-government are now in place, the establishment and operation of the Agricultural Land Agency, the transport of private agricultural land, but also administrative and inspection supervision. So that's what we can clearly read out of all of this. What's the basic goal? The primary goal is in any case extremely significant. It is clear, the aim of all of us and I think it is in terms of rounding up agricultural land, i.e. putting into full function unused agricultural land and the most significant thing we can see in this law. It is clear that we must do this because this is what many of us have seen that European countries have long ago done it because the fact that with 2 or 3 hectares of land we cannot actually compete or talk about something that we could call some serious production, that is, economic activity in the area of agricultural production. Especially in our areas such as the area where I come from, where they are even less sparred, so in a smaller range of their own space, so the surfaces that are being processed, they are even tighter and then it clearly leads to certain problems. However, this problem can be resolved in any case, and here we also have a proposal to resolve it and what it can actually contribute. So we see that this question is actually arranged in a way that what is in private possession can be rented or sold, so there is a intention. The regulator between the private owner and the agency is an only child of local self-government. It's clear to me here, at least I understand it so much that my private property is inalienable. So I can rent it, I can sell it, and I set the price for that land. So you know who has the right to buy first. If, then, one who has the right to buy first or someone else disagrees, he goes on clearly. That's what I compare to cultural heritage. So, let's say at our Vedran in Trogir where we have very much protected cultural heritage, I can have some palaces, some castle and I sell it, the local self-government unit has the right to buy first, I determine the price that it is. I don't agree, and if the local self-government unit doesn't agree with my price and they think it's too high, I'm moving on. So, we kill, I understand so, so I can't understand those who say that here we're talking about something that leads to alienation of someone's private property, as I've heard from some. Well, it's inalienable, it's inalienable, and no one can take my private property from me, but the fact is that unused agricultural land, so we have to put it into service. If we're talking about actually wanting to put agriculture on the level that it deserves. I can tell from the example, from the middle from which I come we have two fields of Rastok and Lake, the field of the lake is exploited maximumly in that field. We have today in the area of Vrgoračka region of 9 million chocolate vines, not to mention thousands of apples, nectarines, peaches, and not to speak from another field that is still blue, but this country will end it too, because now we have finished a project to drain excess water from our field and Rastok will put it in, so we call it at the level we need, which is in the process where we have over a million and 200 thousand strawberries. This would be far more and more the Split and Zagreb markets would be better supplied if people could process their land, so with it, they still process what is not processed, which is not processed or owned by people who are nursing households or those who have moved out and live from other jobs. And their goal is to talk about nursing households, I mean I said that on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Urbanism, and it's actually the fact that nursing households can only make their home budget richer by giving it to someone and processing that land. The same people who have been evicted live in Zagreb today, his aim is to process the country that will remain in his possession and receive an annual lease. I don't see anything wrong with that, though. And my private property remains, it's inalienable, no one can take it from me. I also see a logical proposal here when it comes to criminal measures, which is that if I don't want to give that land to rent, and I don't want to hand it over, which I don't have to, so I don't have to give it, I can have it, but I don't have to do it, I'm also going to be forced to pay compensation for that raw agricultural land. If this is our strategy, and the strategy should be, and ours should be here to preserve national wealth and promote it. So in that respect, I don't see anything problematic at least from the position of what I see. What I'd like to say more is that this second part, clearly, is that I come from a city that has also made a programme available to agricultural land, so far we haven't had a problem with that, so it's about the state land that we've got now for use, that is, we've set up a program that we've got, there's an extraordinary shift. The former plantings of apples down in Vrogračko Rastok, which since the failed company "Message" would have been nothing, if it hadn't been for that program and the people who took it had not shown up. So you... He wants to work, he just needs to make it possible for them to get to that land, and that's what makes this law possible. [[You don't understand.]] Where I would suggest something else, some colleagues with me agreed on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Urbanism on Article 24 of subparagraph 18 concerning the exemption of the fee provided for in Article 23 of this Law. In my opinion, the explanation and interpretation of the 18th subparagraph could have been more visible. Why? So we who come from the local self-government units know that we also have state administration offices that work different referents who know how to interpret a legal provision differently if it is not clear enough so I would suggest that it be put here to release the fees provided for in Article 23 of this Act and therefore investors in business or economic or entrepreneurial areas, but as they are called without this remaining part of the extension and will then be fully owned. Because speaking of zones, we clearly know there's no need to elaborate here what they mean, what it means is building only a particular plant of production or hiring a certain number of people. In this regard, then, we must not restrict people, and that would be my suggestion one. I hope that with the amendment and the arrangements that have been discussed, it will be regulated. With that part, I suggest that sports grounds that are not mentioned, religious facilities, kindergartens, cottages, trafostations, power supply facilities be installed. This is what should also be included because it is something that is generally useful and necessary and it should also be free of payments and fees, so it should be very taxing to list them in order to know what it is. So I don't want to be any longer. I therefore expect certain adjustments, and I believe that with those corrections, the proposed amendments will then be much more transparent and clearer for all of us. I would also like to conclude with this article 25 that it is also necessary to improve it. And why is that? So if the aim of the law is to protect the existing state, then spatial plans must be the basis for that and the spatial plans that are in place. However, it should also be different, probably also to calculate agricultural land compensations within the building area in accordance with the spatial plan in force on the date of entry into force of this law in relation to agricultural land which, by amending the spatial plan after the entry into force of this law, will be covered by borders within the boundaries of the building land. The same amount of one-off compensation should be determined according to agricultural land categories. For this matter, let's say what I've heard from colleagues and colleagues who support and I will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21799	Thank you very much. We have one replication report. Dear Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When you talk about the availability of private agricultural land, you say there are no misunderstandings or problems for you. You're interpreting the law in the way it doesn't say it in the law, which is why we're asking that the law goes into third reading to clarify certain things and that there are no more interpretations of certain provisions of the law. By virtue of Articles 81 and 82, they refer to the right, the availability of private land in such a way that the private owner must advertise the land when leased or sold to a local self-government unit. It would be fine if only the first purchase of the state was realised through the agency, however it is not. In accordance with Article 85, the Agency has to buy no land offered for sale, but the local self-government units will do everything according to Articles 37 and 36 in a way that chooses the most favourable offer and says that I will not sell, I will not sell. That's not true. It doesn't say anywhere when a private bidder can give up selling. There's no law on that. You say if you don't sell the land and you don't lease it and you won't process it, you'll pay the fine. Well, it's not the law's purpose for a farmer to pay a fine. The aim of the law is to process all unprocessed agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21801	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21802	I absolutely agree in this last part that you said was the goal, and that's what I said at the beginning, which is that the land is round and that it's known, every land to be processed, it's not standing unprocessed, because the worst is unprocessed land. So everything's better than unprocessed farm land, colleague Zgrebec. However, it is obvious that you have the right to interpret the law as you see Article 81. But here as much as I understand things, the owner of agricultural land stands clear, who intends to sell or give, means who he intends to sell. Focus on what he intends, I don't have to intend to. I have no intention of giving mine. So the one who intends to go into the procedure you were talking about and he's just fine then to be taken over by local self-government units. It's also okay that the agency doesn't have to buy the land that I'm going to offer for sale if I say that the square of my land is beyond any reason so I'm looking for, because I'm the one who's going to ask for the price for my land. I won't have the local self-government unit or the agency determining how much the price will be on me. It's my property, in my possession, I decide. It's my constitutional right, it's my legal right. Anything to sell. I'm sorry, but that's a fact. You won't tell me because I'll sell the square of my house if I sell it, and you won't tell me because I'll sell my olive if I have it. My olive has the price I'm looking for, there is. Now you decide whether to buy or not. And let's not interpret it, you have the right to interpret it that way. But the fact is, it's not exactly how you interpret it. I understand what you're saying, and I'm going to break up with you, that your goal here is to talk about anything and so on about this law, to show the situation worse than it is. So, that's clear to me, that's your homework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21803	Thank you very much. Two notices first. The meeting of the Committee on Economy will be held today at 14:00 in the hall "Stepana Radića", 131.1. The meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament will be held today at 3:00 in the hall "Ivan Mažuranića", ground floor. Agenda: budget and budget law. Dear Mr Bozidar Pankretic appeared on behalf of the proponent for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21804	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I think it's necessary to say a few sentences after the debates that were heard here, because it would be completely wrong if there were any misunderstandings or in public, God forbid, wrong understanding in this part. I think everyone who understands and knows the state of agriculture when we talk about agricultural land, we can't say that the situation is good. The law we passed in 2001 goes to round up agricultural land and that is clearly its intensity. After seven years, certain changes and repairs are required. When we look at the total agricultural land, the recorded state is on the ground. Those who walk the village, those who see what the situation is, see that unfortunately we have a situation that, apart from state agricultural land, unfortunately rounding too little, too slow to do with private agricultural land. The articles we have nivelled in that section, which are defined, speak very clearly about how it is possible for the county and agricultural land to be privately owned. And they're only going that way. They make it possible for those involved in agricultural production to reach agricultural land to round their economies and become competitive in their production. And I think it's our duty and we should do it. Everything that tries to interpret is going in a different direction simply isn't true and I think we have to say very clearly here and to everyone, we don't limit any right of ownership. Everyone has the right of ownership to process their agricultural land. When it is not processed or not intended to process it, then for very clear reasons we want this agricultural land to come into the hands of those, whether through leases, whether through purchases, who want to round their economies, who want to be competitive on the market and of course prepare them, what is also important to us, in order to prepare for the European Union. And that definitely all these articles define it in a very clear and transparent way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21805	Thank you very much. Follow the debate further. Honorable colleague, Boris Kunst. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21806	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Ministers, secretaries and fellow MPs. So it is certain that such a great interest in the debate on the proposed Agricultural Land Act and, by the way, the agriculture itself speaks enough about itself to be one of the most important economic branches for Croatia. Indeed, the earth is the breast of every human being that must be treated with deep respect. Therefore, it is good to offer optimal solutions in the area of agriculture about this country that gives us food and without which the human race would not survive and debate, to oppose attitudes, to offer optimal solutions in the area of agriculture. A country like Croatia that has a supply of clean drinking water, a vast potential farmland and a climate suitable for the cultivation of various agricultural varieties, can now be classified into the richest world powers. But unfortunately, the facts speak differently. Croatia today has many hectares of agricultural land, but it is unprocessed, abandoned, polluted, grown or mined. Such parcels are mostly owned by the state or local communities or by a number of private persons, and each other who are the owners of the country unfortunately do not know what to do with the land and how to put it further into office. And as a result, we have a negligent relationship with the country. It is therefore good that this law encourages those who do not want to process agricultural land to enable the country to process someone else, regardless of whether the present owners will sell the land, lease, concession or donate. In principle, this is less important to me than what is the value and what value can be achieved by processing agricultural land for the purpose of agricultural production. The application of the law itself will allow for an increase in agricultural holdings, which is ultimately the European Union's agricultural policy. putting the country at the disposal of interested persons would be important for all those who wish to stay in the country, as well as those who wish to return to the village. This can attract a part of displaced persons, exiles, and can attract a normal part of the unemployed, even a part of younger people if they are provided with social security, work, wages, infrastructures, schools, kindergartens, infirmarys, and the content that civilization really needs. Although Croatia has good agricultural potential, unfortunately, it currently has agricultural production that is still digging in living mud. Imports are growing, production and exports are dropping. The amendment of the law opens up opportunities to increase the volume of agricultural production that Croatia must increase at least several times in order to meet domestic needs and increase the exports of food products. developing its own national food industry. With the problem of agricultural land processing, this proposed law, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development must find a solution to eliminate the gray market area in agriculture and livestock, which has been extremely well organised in Croatia for years and has produced huge damage to the domestic market. That's why I expect the ministry, because that's not the problem since yesterday, that's the problem that's been going on I'd say for almost 18 years, that it's really taking some action, that it's going into action, that it's going to fight crime in the area of agriculture and livestock, that it's similar to what we have today. And here we had a few sessions ago debated how to fight organised crime and the mafia in Croatia, which is similar, only in this sector of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21807	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of distinguished fellow MP Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21808	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I have no dilemma that a new Agricultural Land Act should be passed, because really, in order for Croatia to lead a good agricultural policy, it must lead a good land policy. One of the objectives that should be met by the Agricultural Land Act is the rounding up of agricultural land in a way that not only increases property by size, but also reduces the number of parcels on which it is produced, because it is the only way we can raise competitiveness, or reduce costs in that production. However, this objective cannot only be achieved as defined by this proposed law, so only by selling state agricultural land or by buying private agricultural land through the Institute, if no material conditions are created for it. On the one hand, in the budget that the agency can buy this, and on the other hand to increase the income of farmers who are now on smaller parcels and with great oscillations in the achievement of income, can go to such an investment. Our farmers, especially rural households, are still over-indebted today, and they have no security, no income stability. If we don't secure that, we won't have any good agriculture policy. So land policy is asking for money. We don't have a 2009 budget either. Only funds are provided for the establishment and functioning of an administrative agency, but only some symbolic means to round up the land. Whoever was this year is also planned for 2009. Let's analyze what kind of property is in the European Union. There are different experiences. You have countries that have big agricultural property, you have countries that don't have big agricultural property. For example. The 27 countries of the European Union today have an average of 10 hectares, the Czech Republic has the highest 66, clearly because it was state property, there was no private property and Hungary that went this second line, so by privatising state land. Its average property is 5.6 hectares. However, for the sustainability of the agricultural holding in the European Union, it is not crucial to the size of the property, but to other market and economic measures, among other things, to stress an organised approach on the market. That's what we miss. What is missing from our small farmers, what they produce is especially evident in the production that cannot be stored, so the fruits and vegetables that we import in enormous quantities for the purposes of the domestic Konzum, actually often fail in the fields. What is our situation today, and how can we even view what is happening in agriculture? This morning they call me, people say they haven't been paid their milk incentives, their livestock, their spring crops. It would be good for the minister to tell us if it is true and when it will be paid. What is the situation in the external trade of the agricultural and food industry? Here's fresh data for the first 10 months. Agriculture without forestry has a deficit of 2.3 billion kuna, a minimum surplus of 120 million kuna, food and drink deficits of 3.5 billion or 5.7 billion deficits in the agricultural and food industry for the first 10 months. Covering only 46%. It is only one index term more than the total trade of goods in Croatia. The increase in deficits compared to last year was 37%. When we talk about the protection of land, this is about unprocessed land, land capable of production and re-use. We have a lot of raw land, a large part of the state land. Who's going to pay fines for holding unprocessed land? A municipality, a city or a state? The re-purpose, from first to second reading, is down by half and now once again announced by half. If that's how we protect agricultural land, then we won't protect it. Some say that over the last 15 years, 700 thousand hectares of agricultural land have been lost, which has gone to construction land. Once a lost agricultural land has been lost forever. What is this land capable of production? Agrotechnical measures, so our farmer is not able to have them, so I imagine that the land is capable of producing, when it can't even get the machinery, when it can't use all those agrotechnical measures and technology that is now known in agricultural production. That's why he has low yields, so he's uncompetitive. Privatisation of state land in the financial and economic crisis situation in the world and in our country, you can imagine who will buy this land. Surely, the small producer in the country will not be able to, because he cannot pay even the loans he took for the current production, or for some small investments he had. It's also said that it's a protection so that foreigners don't buy land. So listen, today, strangers can't buy real estate in Croatia, and they bought it, nobody knows how much. You set up a private company in Croatia that operates under Croatian regulations, which operates in Croatia, will also buy agricultural land, buy other properties. It's no protection whatsoever. And what we're warning here, and what we're trying to do with our defense colleagues, is we're asking for another review, which is precisely this restriction of the availability. So, not taking away private property, but by de facto, we restrict the availability of private agricultural land because if the agency does not exercise the right to buy first, then whoever has shown the intention of selling the land will have to sell it as the local self-government unit sets a priority for him, so to whom they say in the municipality or the city, and not to whom he would want to sell it. It's de facto limiting the availability of your private property. And we would like it to be discussed once again that this law is precisely why it goes into third reading so that we do not have to take other measures and seek the protection of the constitutionality of legality. Penalties. Penalties never solve problems. If we do not otherwise formulate agricultural policy and help to train farmers' economies and also stock companies that still operate in agriculture with no penalties, we will not get to processed agricultural land because whoever, as a colleague said, will pay the fine if he will not rent or sell, and thinks that he has solved the problem. He didn't solve the problem. And what I'd say in the end, we're actually selling state land to buy private land. And the state sells its property for which, in most cases, it doesn't even know how much of it is to buy other people's property. I'm going to say, for example, social land that's registered as social agricultural land in the cataster. In view of the fact that the agricultural land was paid for its own water compensation in the cadastrian books, it was all recorded. In the early 1990s, a million and 200 thousand hectares of social agricultural land in Croatia were recorded, which then became state property by law in 1991. What happened by then, how did the state take care of its property? So what happened is that we now have a record, and it says great success that the municipalities and cities have managed to identify 500 thousand hectares, and of that, companies are processing 200 thousand. And now we should take that 200 grand away from companies that employ about 20,000 workers and lead to a conflict on the same plot of workers and peasants. I think it's an unsustainable condition. So that's what we said on behalf of the club and what we suggested the conclusion would be necessary for this law to go into third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21809	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of the distinguished representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21810	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the Ministry. I do not believe that anyone here had a domestic policy to criticise without covering anything from the proposal of this Law on Agricultural Land, as I do not think that the proposer of this law had any good intentions and good faith to regulate matter from this area which is to say and the problem since the Peasant Rebellion and through that old HSS blue and green furrow to the 2001 law, or the first agrarian reform that has entered into its final laws since 2001 and 2008, so this proposal of the law that would finally resolve the availability of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia and for the benefit of telling the community as a total and not only as a national interest or protection of national wealth, so at least I understand the protection of the private interests or possessions of those who own the country. It is clear that here we have heard a lot of debates about this and those from the areas where the country can handle it, as well as those from equal Slavonia and Baranja where they are certainly far larger areas of land owned and large areas owned by state property. This is about 900 thousand hectares of land owned by the Republic of Croatia, agricultural land, so almost a quarter of it, only a quarter of it has been leased and concessioned so far, and is likely to have been processed. The rest was unprocessed. When I was looking at the law and the proposals that were made here and earlier in that first reading, I made one remark, then in any case when we talk about the protection of national interests as was the case here and the forests the other day, I certainly would not agree with Article 2(2), which states that land cannot be acquired by legal business by legal persons. But there's also a point and a word: "unless" if the international contract is different. The international treaty, therefore, is assumed to be this bill of law or law, which is likely to be adopted by the majority's will in this House. This means that the international treaty will be able to own agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. We're witnessing a situation on our coast where exactly the way Mrs. Zgrebec said she was coming to own a property on our Adriatic coast. Is Slavonia and Baranja up? In ten years, will we be farmers on our own land? That is why I have also tabled an amendment to this Article 2(2), which I added to the international agreement that must be ratified by the Croatian Parliament. The international treaty is known to sign, but this House, this High House, is the place where such a contract can be ratified. There was the most debate about this, about Article 81 and the right to have private land. The owner of agricultural land that intends to sell or lease its agricultural land, the law says, is required to submit an offer to the local self-government unit. Does the land also mean to donate to a closer family member? Whether or not he has to deliver an offer to the local self-government unit. Why would a brother sell his brother the land? Why don't you give it to him or his sister to his brother, brother to his sister? It is clear that this law certainly encroachs on a traditional experience, on a common right, perhaps not written, but certainly the right that has been brought to life in our premises, so I would say from, both in Dalmatia and Slavonia and Baranja and Zagorje and all our parts. In some ways, it is said to be threatened by a constitutional court in connection with this article. Is it necessary to go to the constitutional court if we can agree here as people, as representatives, there is clearly the ministry, so that we can change things eventually? In the first part of this law, it is also clearly mentioned that the rules and rules of business and the establishment of an agency for agricultural land as well as the Office for the Land that takes care of control and all that is said, which is necessary in relation to the quality of the soil. I think the establishment of the agency, so the establishment of the Office of the Grounds, that's two again, I'd say, two institutions, which are looking for, clearly and a certain number of employees, etc. I don't see too many reasons to be with the Office of the Ground and Agency as one institution. So, again we're setting up new agencies, the soil office, and actually if this is agricultural land and this is the soil office, please nice, land, soil, I don't see any significant differences and I don't see so many differences that it wouldn't work like either agency or office, whatever you want as one united institution. So, as it has arisen, that in the 1990s, in the laws of that time that have not been changed, the laws on conversion and privatisation have created tycoonisation in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, I fear that this law will bring about similar, similar negative things and at the disposal of agricultural land. So I'm saying, being a farmer on your own country isn't good. And that a stranger can't come into the land, so here's an example from our county where one trading house bought agricultural land from one municipality and I can tell the minister which, if they want to go public, and then there's a trading house that bought another shopping house from Slovenia. Therefore, a shopping house from Slovenia, therefore, to go back, simply came into possession of agricultural land in the municipality of Sibinj in the County of Brod-Posavina. How, but it happened. So such an example can happen and in the future, it's not regulated here, there's no way to prevent it, there's no way to prevent it. So here, it will happen in the future and I say, I'm afraid what happened to the Republic of Croatia's economy doesn't happen. I hope it won't be just 200 families, 'cause I guess there will be more. But there you go. Article 82 states that the unit of local self-government is required, that it is required to make an offer on the sale or lease of agricultural land referred to in Article 81 and to publish the necessary documentation on the advertising board within 15 days. Why not the public record? On the ad board. Therefore, it can also be published in a public opinion or only in a public opinion. Because on the advertising board, we know what it looks like, and we're all witnessing how much it costs, how long it takes, and how it can be treated. While, I will listen to the others who will participate in this debate over this law, and then I will add my final opinion to the vote when the conditions arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21811	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague representative, Nevenka Marinovic, also reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21812	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in total this law should mean rounding agricultural economies, the average, we heard, below all economic averages, should increase the use of agricultural areas, should be put into operation so far, untapped agricultural land, but also introduce more order, or disciplines in the re-use of agricultural land. It should also result in the establishment of a core of agricultural economies that will have a long-term perspective of development, in the first place, in order to compete with agricultural production. With the establishment of an information system, the establishment of an information system should create a basis, i.e. a presumption of quality management of agricultural land, that is all that has been dealt with by law so far is essentially insufficiently resolved. The establishment of the agency would speed up the process of rounding, managing and marketing agricultural areas, as well as the control of transport and the protection of private agricultural land. There are also certain irregularities in this legislative proposal that will be the subject of amendments and that have been dealt with quite a bit in the debate so far. I will only look back at Article 74, paragraph 5, which is prescribed that the minimum agricultural land owned by a country that is leased or the long-term lease shall not pay the lease for the first 10 years of use if the tenant bear the costs of demining. It is further stated that the tenant is obliged to demining agricultural land within two years, meaning from the conclusion of the contract and cannot enter into possession of the land until demining. It's not said here what's with private land, who's calling the competition, who's setting priorities and what's with the certification, or with the certificate. If we know that there are still 19 thousand and 600 hectares under mines, or 196 square meters, and the average demining price somewhere around 10 kuna per meter per square metre, it is easy to conclude that nearly 2 billion kuna is required for the above. My proposal is to implement paragraph 5 of Article 74 means to comply with the Law on humanitarian demining and prescribed procedures of the Croatian Mine Action Centre in the first order in order to avoid new casualties by both civilians and pyrotechnicians entering mine suspected space. I will personally support the bill's proposal because, as I have cited in the introduction, it also contributes to a better quality attitude towards agricultural land, its valorisation and is a good assumption for a new direction of land policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21813	Thank you very much. Further to the debate, distinguished counterpart Zlatko Koračević signed up. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21814	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the debate that takes place on the second day somewhere more than one-third of Croatian MPs had a need to report, make their contribution to the topic under the Law on Agricultural Land and that fact itself says that it is one of the very important legal proposals. In my personal opinion, one of the fundamental laws in agriculture is definitely one of the areas that this legislative proposal needs, without which the provisions do not have effective agricultural production and definitely one such law is necessary for our agricultural production. However, a key question is raised in my opinion, is that such a bill? The debate in the assembly itself speaks of an extremely large number of objections. The fact that colleagues, colleagues and colleagues from individual segments have noticed the observed bad solutions, solutions that will create even more problems in that space than we have today. The fact that some colleagues and colleagues in this debate have simply read the provisions of this law, but it is essential to me, the essential question is whether in Croatia we have unprocessed agricultural land because our citizens are lazy? Because they don't want to, and they won't work? I remember in my Zagorje, in my neighborhood not so long ago all the banks were processed. There are people out there today. And today people live there, but today they are in a situation not to get as much as they invested and let alone make more money. According to which, what is the basic reason? The fact is that in this law only equalised agricultural land in Dalmatia, Istria, Slavonia, Croatia Zagorje, Međimurje and Podravina, yes, and my personal opinion is that this law does not respect or respect the specificities of a particular area especially when we talk about classification or it may be resolved by a government regulation but I think it should be written in law, but I repeat the essence of me that we still have and we will have agricultural production in some parts of this country that are simply not worth it. Not because the areas are too small but because the system, a complete system of agricultural production, does not allow for any basic profit if it is a basic occupation or additional earnings. We imported the first eight months of this year from Argentina 1600 tons of fresh pears. We paid a pound of pears a dollar and a half, a dollar and 30. It's about six and a half kuna. I asked my colleague, Lesar, because there's an impressive relationship possible in Međimurje, an impressive orchard right now. His answer was to pears, that pear manufacturers were happy when they sold two and a half, three kunas. We're Argentinians total with expenses came a dollar and 30. So I ask why and why my Zagorci, in my Misery, have no possibility and the pears are produced, there are plantations, there are no such opportunities at that price. I therefore believe that the Agriculture Act is necessary, that the Agriculture Act is necessary, that the Law on Agricultural Land, but I also think and want to remind the Minister of this occasion, at the end of 2002, and he was the Minister of Agriculture author of the idea and that is Article 43. The agricultural law, which provides that the Ministry is obliged to deliver to the Government by 15 May of the current year at the latest, and to submit the Government to the Parliament for acceptance by 30 June of the current year, so-called Green report. The report that it draws, which gives a picture of the complete state of agriculture. And I believe that at this moment, in this Parliament and all of us and the Croatian public, it is a crucial document based on which we could then lead qualified and constructive, primarily constructive debates and in turn make one step, one constructive step for agricultural production, because simply in a series of very good actions because they are not too closely connected, we are then coming into the situation that these actions as well as these, this... This simple initiative to move forward with the amendment of the Agricultural Land Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the problem is that we're starting from the fundamentally wrong assumptions. Among other things, our people simply do not want to farm land because all these nursing households have their own heirs. All these people would come home on weekends, work, do something. It's not for intensive production, but it's for additional income. But why isn't it there? Isn't it ironic, we read in the daily press, these days "Consume Croatian!" The biggest importer, one of the largest food importers, suddenly felt the need to propagate as much consumption as possible of Croatian products. Therefore, the system does not work for us and in this whole system, and this proposal will definitely create even more, create more problems than the benefits themselves, and therefore I join the SDP colleagues' proposal, and I call on the minister to reconsider, and we have heard also the announcement of a quite number of amendments that this law goes into third reading, and I think the decision to go into third reading by respecting all these remarks will show size, show strength and one correct attitude towards the problem we want to address with this law. Incentives. To what extent the incentives or the incentive system are as we have, and we all found, we all agreed to change it. At the end of the coalition agreement between the government and the programme, it was defined that by the end of 2008, a new law and a new draft law on the incentive system would be established. At the end of 2008, we do not have it, and there is no need to do a cost-effective analysis of all the incentives in this country, and especially in agricultural production, which, because the opportunities themselves say that the incentives we are investing in are to improve something and therefore create added value, says that there is no. Because of the complexity, there's one more moment I have to mention, and that's the issue of ownership. I'm not getting into that. Finally, we have the institutions of this country to determine whether the provisions of certain articles in this bill, which are related to ownership and constitutional right of ownership, are true and are contrary to the law or not. But what I'm saying is, with us in Croatian Zagorje, at the end of this we became, among other things, known, that the land is sacred, the property of the land is sacred. The trial of about 2 cm of the border is a common practice and I doubt that such a bill allows us to resolve it, and especially considering, both colleagues Roshin and several colleagues have mentioned, the question of the cadastra, the situation in the catastro, the gruntovnica. You ministers are familiar and I'm sure you have information at the end of the day and colleague Vincek definitely has that information. That three years ago, we were going to a circle on that test field in a psychic, and we've been standing there for a year because of the grantine books. We're standing by for the granite books. It didn't move, it didn't move, it didn't move, it didn't move, it didn't move, it didn't move, it didn't move, it didn't move, it Go on. It is known that we already had some twenty years ago attempts at rounding, so due to the law of succession, this proposal will, in part, be certain, but I repeat, it will partially prevent that something that was previously aggregated, invested, invested money from being depreciated again. Therefore, my proposal is for the ministers to respect all these remarks, that the law does not essentially enter a position, with the position that our people do not want to work. Our people believe they want to work safely. However, a whole other set of measures is needed to make people feel the benefit, to make people feel it's worth doing. And believe me, people especially in Croatia know how to appreciate the country and value the country and how to assess what can be done from that country and create added value. And once again, I call upon and first join the SDP's Club of Representatives' initiative that this law go into third reading. And I invite you to show your width, feeling for the problems of the village and the total agriculture as an economic branch, and that, in peace, without politicizing in the third reading, we get a quality law that we will certainly all support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21815	Thank you. Vice-President of the House, Mr. Representative Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21816	Mr. Vice President, Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Surely the debate on this law has sparked and opened a number of topics, prompted analysis. But what makes me happy is that she has shown some concern and willingness to take care of what we call the country's national wealth. We've destroyed both banks and the economy, and it's good that we're taking care of the country now. The only thing where we individuals, individual MPs, differ, is how to take care of each other. Because one's talking is not the time to create, rounding up family economies. We need to keep the state land in the vans, so don't we have enough recovery from shipbuilding and beyond, and I don't see where these successful combinations are and I think that process should be over. What we opted for is a competitive family economy. Because actually this time, the time of crisis, and now it's saying that they're not in the focus of observation, because that peasant survived. At least some of them here in the assembly said there was no seizure in '47. And a ransom. He's lived through it all, and he's preserved this country until now, and I don't think that a peasant should be the boss of the country, that he has the land, that he lives over it, that he creates for himself, and that he doesn't need to be afraid of others. It may also be ideology that makes some of them afraid or run away from it. What was launched more than ten years ago, put first, was a matter of state land availability. We must have a regulation that regulates total land availability, because I agree. With the constitution of freedom of possession of private property, neither does anyone have the right, nor does anyone need to be restricted. But when it comes to the country, that must be the answer, because it isn't, once there was a question here who's the one who's going to order me to plow my country. Well, gentlemen, my dear, when someone leaves their plot in the middle of a field to grow on it a slur, an oatmeal, a partisan, a zyzore... The grahor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The villagers know what I'm talking about. It's all those weeds, then hundreds of acres around that parcel next year should be treated several times more with herbicides to wipe it out, and some weeds and two, three years are growing. And that's why you have to say you have to apply a minimal agrotechnic if you do anything else to plow and dive. I don't have to tell you and I don't have to order what you're gonna do on that earth to shine or plant, but if you have to process it, that's what it stands for. What I'm all afraid of and where through this law we sort of solve the question, not until the end, is whether we're going to get more wealthy foreigners to come and pick up the country. The country, investing in the country, the agricultural and processing industry, more than anything we talk about in Croatia, is a world trend because it has understood how important it is to create this product that you can feel and take to the market, unlike the ones where the paper was paper, from hollow to empty and create the crisis in which we are today. It is certain that, we are facing significant investments in land, for decades we have been draining water, now we need to start returning through irrigation, if we do not arrange the plot, if there is no systematic approach to the management of this land, then it is certainly difficult to expect the efficiency of such measures. What is also said, which I am not afraid of, may have been and has a environment and I know them in the field where local self-governments have made certain mistakes through their programs, but in May next year and local self-government will be on trust checks. We have local elections. I'm not into generalization because I know tens and tens and hundreds of environments where people sat down, made programs, determined volumes, put up tenders, concluded contracts, and where family economies know what they have and build their perspective on and determine the volume of their production. This law is also immediately observed from the perspective of what follows us very quickly, and this is the harmonisation of this encouraging policy with what is in the European Union where we have to make adjustments because the farmer today who manufactures milk, makes meat, produces eggs, if there is no country, will in fact be in a position of incompetence because the whole European model is made that the country is a raw material basis for its production and that through the surface of the land he processes as a raw basis for his production he achieves the incentive. And that's why it's important that as soon as possible we're late here, but we can always talk late, but it's never too late. If we go on time, then there are opportunities only for these people through the programs, through measures as soon as possible to create conditions to come to the possessions of certain areas, and that is exactly what we are now recording and that we have talked about here where we agree, which are unprocessed, which are abandoned, which should be brought to culture and so on. And that is why I believe that based on what has been said through the debate, we expect that the proposing of certain amendments will improve certain relations, primarily regarding exemptions, which is not paid for when it comes to re-use, because we all agree that for kindergarten, school, church and so on, the village should not be paid for re-purpose because it is for our mutual need. But I don't agree with those initiatives where outside of construction areas someone speculatively buys agricultural land, tomorrow they're going to turn it into construction and then ask that, and if it does, it still doesn't even have to pay re-use compensation because it's going to win consent and that's what the priority is, and that's exactly what needs to be done. This should be prevented, agricultural land needs to be protected by me. It is certain that beyond this law, certain additional measures should be taken here and followed. We need to see how we can address the issue of irrigation as a national programme. It is also talked about co-financing or financing of the commission, but these are definitely topics and these are discussions with some other draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21817	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Madam Representative Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21818	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to actually refer to that part of Mr. Vice President Fristic's debate where he says some of us don't think it's time to round up. I don't think it could be concluded from these discussions. It is certain that this property that is under 3 hectares in Croatia, but it is not the biggest problem that the property is small, but it is still fragmented. We also need other agrotechnical measures, not just the purchase and sale of land. We also need a commission, urgently to pass a law on cohesion, and we need other agrotechnical measures such as arondation, so that's how we round up the land, but we need more money to make land round at all. It's a long-term expensive process. And that is why I have warned that we and certain state measures must, through land policy, allow a farmer who has been determined to deal with agricultural production and not with any kind of product, but with agricultural production to come in as simple as possible and as cheap as possible to that basic resource in agriculture, which is agricultural land. So no real peasant will leave his country without necessity, so he won't leave her unforgivable. However, we do nothing to help nursing households so that they can live normally, and to "resolve" a country they cannot process, we do not give the right perspective to those young people who want to stay in the country, and that is, in fact, the biggest problem. The money that we spend from the state budget is actually inefficient because year by year we have a growing deficit in the external trade balance, we import more and more, we produce less and less.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21819	Replication response, vice president, Mr. Josip Frishcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21820	Thank you very much, colleague. Time to circle, I agree, it may be missed, but when it comes to land as a permanent good, then it always stands before us as a challenge. And all other measures, including your Međimurje, the first county in the Republic of Croatia has adopted a irrigation program because you understand, people have understood there after building those lakes and hydrocenters etc. that water is there, but there's no production because it's not where it's supposed to be for agricultural production. I think that there are visible measures, and certainly not through this law, but through other ministries, it's in the focus of observation, and that's what funds are provided for. The question is, many times here in the debate is said, someone wants to or wants to get rid of the country's nursing home. No, they need help, they can remain owners, but someone needs to help them be a mediator between them and those who process the country to rent it. For them, we have voted there that instead of 5, they can get 10 thousand, this year the income support for next year is still increasing because they really are not the ones who will be able to carry out their products tomorrow, but they are certainly the ones to be taken care of not in a way to rule them out, to take their land, rather than to provide them with the agency and local self-government to keep the country in office, and they are the ones to receive adequate compensation for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21821	Second replica, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21822	Dear Vice President, I have responded to the replica of the esteemed Vice President Fristic, because few of his findings provoked me because he said so far we've been doing the draining, and now we have to irrigate. We have to work parallel to each other, because we have soils that in the spring seek extraction, and later in the course of vegetation we have to irrigate that culture because there is not enough water to dry. Therefore, one measure does not exclude another parallel to the use of soil and normally take care of both draining and irrigation. On the other hand, we do have slightly more than 900 thousand hectares that are not at all included in arable land in this sense, since they need these repairs just like this, whether it's a drain, whether it's irrigation, and what's certainly better to apply one and the other at a given time than to go to rock depletion and perhaps cause new erosions, new washing and new problems. Second, I'm like this one commentary on the account of the combinations all the time. Combines as a combined social sector have died, today we have a serious agricultural holding that we can call them, which are truly market-oriented and which produce, above all products for the market and there would be the sin of these 10% surfaces that we have rounded up today while I say 90% of the area is still crying out for arrondation, for a combination, i.e. to actually create suitable economies where we will be able to produce really competitive products. So let us make this clear and try to create greater from the weaned ones, and let us not sin on the soul and go on a entanglement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21823	Replication response, Vice President Josip Friscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21824	So surely when it comes to disposal measures, then we agree they must not be abandoned, ignored, but after a few years in some areas of Croatia and decades of neglect because in certain drains they have turned into forests. You've got half-inch logs and a half-inch thicker, which means if there's an inch in there, no one's been in that channel for 30 years. Croatian waters have agreed to transfer such channels to local self-government, but not to derail local self-government, but when the channel is arranged, and thousands of kilometers are arranged this year then transferred to further maintenance. We're doing a parallel irrigation program because today the problem is that there's a water that's too much to save at some point, to get back to the ground tomorrow, and I definitely think that we both agree in what direction to do and how to help. I'm not the one who's pulling the land. We certainly all advocate that on one economy optimal size it is possible to create conditions and deal with these market conditions, but I am against it and therefore I support this law to continue what has been done so far, and that was a preferential concession. Because according to the preferential concession, the one with me in Podravina all peasants pay 700 kuna rents on land, not cleared, so they pay an annual fee of 700 kuna, and the privileged concessionaire would pay 350. They are all unprivileged at the beginning, and it is good that we are equating it here, and I think that the available programmes are just going in that sense to valorize the programme of that farmer, the owner of the family economy and to create the conditions for it to have sufficient raw materials for milk, for meat, for poultry or for anything further produced on its family economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21825	Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21826	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State. I will try not to repeat it already today in today's debates as well as from last week's details presented in the debate, but at the first reading of this proposal, I quoted the words of the late people's tribune, Jože Pankretić, who spoke in this House and whose words may well be repeated or remembered in these occasions, and in principle when approaching the country you must be clean and orderly. Today, we have to ask ourselves whether we are approaching this bill with a clean and orderly intention to address the problems of Croatian villages or to approach individual and personal or group interests and specificities of local communities. I think it's something else. We are approaching the challenge of making a solution related to the creation of a legal framework that will enable the circulation of agricultural land, thereby increasing the competitiveness of domestic agriculture. There must be no speculant interest of individuals or interest groups in this process. They should not be, but such interests are clearly identified from the debate. Instead of being clean and fair in solving the problem of agricultural land, we have turned into politics, respecting individual interests and neglecting global solutions. I believe that this law is courageously and resolutely in an area where there has been quite a mess so far. Why are we afraid to sell, give in concession or rent agricultural land to our peasant? Well, on the back of our peasants have survived generations and generations of citizens of this country, and the peasant has endured all systems and all socio-political arrangements. The peasant can master his estate, he has not brought him into bankruptcy, and many managers and large economic experts with large incomes would have what to learn from our peasants today. So let us do all things that the earth may belong to and come into possession of him who needs it, who wants to work it, and who knows what to produce it. Let's look at what issues are being addressed by this law, which are the objectives of land policy. And if the aim is to improve the competitiveness of agricultural production and if the aim is to improve living conditions in rural areas, and in this proposal we clearly read that this is a real goal, then I certainly support this bill. This area is too important for the economic development of the country, for the survival of our village, and in these very difficult financial and economic global processes that surround us, and therefore this area is getting even more important. Food, especially healthy food, is gaining more and will gain importance. Without quality and well-processed land, there is no food and there is no food in sufficient quantities. I believe that the motionor will also take note of some of the comments raised last week and today, and will go towards achieving the objectives set by this bill through respect for these remarks. I am in favour of simplifying the process of selling state agricultural land to farmers' holdings as well as of obtaining concessions for cultivation of unprocessed land, to address the problem of booking agricultural land through land books, as well as to prevent the splitting of land parcels. I see a series of good solutions here in this bill of law, and I will support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21827	Thank you. IDS representative club, five-minute debate. Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21828	Honorable Vice President, Minister, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. The last time, which was Friday, I quoted the analysis of Zeljko Lovrinčević from the Economic Institute, which at the meeting of economists compared agricultural land prices in Europe. So he said, the most expensive agricultural land in Luxembourg is 11.23 euros per m2, while in Switzerland, Austria, southern Germany, northern Italy, the Netherlands pays m2 at 1.6 to 3.2 euros. In Croatia, the average price of agricultural land according to the state, Lovrinčević is 0.27 euros or 2 kuna, and in Istria the average price of that state agricultural land is, believe it or not, 14 euros per the assessment of Dr Lovrinčević and Glas Istria, respectively, tax administration. The price in the Croatian part of Istria is far more expensive than in the Slovenian part of Istria or in the Italian part of Istria. I will not say that this is a crime against the farmer of Istria, but it is really not normal for a farmer in Istria to pay 50 times more expensive land than it is clearly sold in Kutjevo, Međimurje, Podravina, Slavonia or elsewhere. The IDS advocates that the country should be given to peasants in that parish "Earth to peasants, factory workers". Of course, we're going to have a harder time looking at this other thing, but clearly this country is given to real farmers to use it without being resold. Resales, understandably, should be disabled so that if someone decided to do so then under the same conditions that he bought it from the state, that country must offer the state so that some state would say whether or not it would. That way, we could prevent the mixing, although this law has set one 10-year deadline, and I think that deadline should extend to a minimum of 30 years. It is clear that I advocate that the country in Istria is assigned to the Istrians, the Istrian land of the Istrians not to the tycoons. As the country in Dalmatia should be assigned to the Dalmatians, in Međimurje Međimurci, in Slavonia Slavonci, in Lika Lichani, in Podravina Podravci etc., etc. All of you here gentlemen know of one Kozlovic, Degrasi, Katunar, Marina Markesic, Koronika, Prevec, what you know we drank them, no. It's about the best Croatian winemakers. How did they become that? So we're '95, '96. After the collapse of the HI group in Umag let them process their vineyards. We saved the plantations, gave the young people a chance, brought some back from Italy. And today, no MP, let's put on the side of Gabric and the like, there's no 1/10, there's not even 1/100 as many as these people have. I'm saying, they've all done blood work in the last 15 years and let them have it. Why should we fear a benevolent farmer, a craftsman, a merchant? They are not our enemies. They are our tycoons. What on the other hand is an Istrian specificum? The fact that it's in Istria between 30 and 40 percent of the so-called community at the moment. State land. And why is that? Because of that war, barbaric exodus when Istria with Opatija, Cres, Losinj, etc. leaves about 140,000 people who clearly use the option and their country becomes state-owned. If we want this country to process, say, the Istrians, they have to come to it. If not, 2011 will not come to the party, they will not, before that because they will not pay in Istria or elsewhere in Croatia more expensive than they would pay in Luxemburg. This will be achieved by Istrian and Croatian tycoons, the same ones that today use hundreds of hectares, etc. tourism land doesn't pay anyone anything, and in many hundreds of hectares they've already signed up. There's a paradox that happens, for example. Three acres from Buj recently sold state land for 830 thousand kuna. Well it can't be paid by a farmer it's clear, then we know who's just buying it and it should also be prevented. Penalties for unprocessed land from 500 to 15 thousand kuna are absurd. Those who own some land for 15, 20, 30 years, etc. They must have priority over anyone else, so he was the second and Croatian defender, it would clearly not be worse to end up with this law going into the third reading, because I'm afraid he'll end up in the Constitutional Court. It's my fault there's no Bora here, but like he said, the Slavons wouldn't become farmers in 10 years. To prevent Slavons from becoming farmers in 10 years, they need to be allowed to buy land, to round up property. If you have a strong farmer, he will guard that land, produce on that land, live his family, his heirs. And that's why under normal conditions we need to round up the property and give people that they can live on agriculture in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21829	Thank you. Final review, Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Minister Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank everyone who discussed this two-day debate at the end of this two-day debate, with my very constructive proposals, I would like to supplement this bill and not repeat it again. Surely this is an extremely important law, it is important for the future of total agriculture in Croatia, and I believe that it has included everything that is necessary right now to improve certain things within the agricultural sector. I also emphasized in 2001, it was necessary to bite the acid apple, as we said then, and to deal with the problem of state agricultural land that I must say, according to that record, there were approximately 250 thousand hectares. According to today's record, we have 550,000 acres of state land which confirms that we were absolutely right when we included units of local self-government that helped this process in the most part. I'm the exception here, there were certain problems, there were certain problems in municipalities and cities. I think this law has improved that regulation to avoid them in the future. I would like to say that in any case from the debate it is clear that certain changes are necessary in certain articles, especially in those relating to a specific re-use and amounts. In this work, as I have already pointed out, we will accept that this re-use is reduced to 1% and that it does not in any case restrict entrepreneurial activity in business areas where we expect investors. So we're going to accept that kind of thinking and I think it's going to come in handy and I'm rejecting any purpose of giving up because of the announced law, anyone. Anyone who wants to invest, this repurpose will not be a problem for him in the work. And I think we've reached such an agreement and we'll accept such amendments. I might mention two sentences about what we all swore here most of the time and said that the land is sacred, that the country is particularly treasure, that we should pay particular attention to it, and then when we get out of this Parliament or when we come somewhere, we see how individuals can tell the owners of that treasure, and the sanctity and thus behave. For that reason, we want that part to be regulated. It is primarily to contribute in Croatia to what we all know, which is excessive imports, being as small as possible, and I think that we can only achieve this if we have agricultural land at our disposal that is fully operational. I once again ask respected MPs and MPs to support this law and to give it support, because delaying this law would certainly not be good for all that awaits us in the future, and it is related to agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21831	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21832	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to warn you that we have quite a number of points, on quite a number of agenda points, including that we also need to discuss the proposal for the participation of members of the Armed Forces and vote, which requires 102 votes in order for this proposal to also be accepted on the confirmation of the loan agreement. So we're going to vote on the points of the agenda. First Final Proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 124. The debate is closed. First of all, we will vote on a proposal for the conclusion of the SDP Representatives' Club, which reads: "The final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act will be carried out by the third reading". Do the proposing representatives want to show themselves? Here you go. Minister Bozidar Pakrentić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21833	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government does not accept this proposal as a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21834	Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21835	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDSS Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21836	What, from?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21837	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21838	I'm setting a break of 10 minutes and we'll continue at 15.20 minutes. Gentlemen of the Parliament. We're moving on with the session. The word has Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21840	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We from the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party and the Club of Representatives of National Minorities believe that the Law on Agricultural Land should go into third reading. All that we have discussed on committees and in the Assembly and all that we have made known in the form of amendments, and of which, unfortunately, a small part of it has been adopted, says that this law should be subject to further discussions, additional debates to remove traps, in order to eliminate the dangers that are contained in it in respect of infringements of the fundamental constitutional right, which is the right to property. Ladies and gentlemen. The one who does not take care of that fact would be about as careless as the one who does not care about the problem of shipbuilding and preserving jobs, as well as the one who does not, and who does not want to take care of the fact that with this law we are actually engaged in taking away one large number of people's right of ownership just because they have found themselves in a number of different circumstances of war, economic, social and other. It's something we in the SDSS can't accept. We understand the basic purpose and support it. We believe that it is necessary to settle the issue and ownership, unfortunately it is not arranged but cannot be arranged by authorising municipalities, their commissions and their agencies to do so. We also believe that it is necessary to edit cadastar books but we will not allow it to be done by solving it through the institute, the rental of concessions, with the help of committees or with the help of agencies. And for this reason, I remind myself of another time as members of the ruling coalition we should not be in a position to communicate with the amendments at our government's proposal, but since we are already forced to do so and since only one of the five amendments has been accepted, I would like to say that there is no equal and less equal in this coalition, there is no more responsible and less responsible than we are all responsible for the budget, so we will all be responsible for this law. If we're not, then we won't be able to be together.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21841	Thank you very much. Does the government's representative want to show himself about Mr. Pupovac's proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21842	Thank you. Mr. President. I'll just further explain what I said because I made myself clear for the first time. I must say that what is said here about property is not true and in the least this law does not enter into the concept of ownership. Therefore, all the articles we are talking about do not define the concept of ownership. What is the priority of not just this government, not just of us sitting here is to solve unprocessed agricultural land. If this is priority number one, then only these articles we listed in the law can we solve it or we can talk again tomorrow about having unprocessed agricultural land and not having enough agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21843	The minister stays at the stand to vote. Here you go, Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21844	Thank you very much. Just one clarification on behalf of the HNS club. Does the adoption of this law require most of the 77 MPs?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21845	I think there's a simple majority because it's not listed in the Rules of Procedure as a law that would require a qualified or two-thirds majority. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21846	I'm sorry, I didn't ask for a two-thirds majority, but the size of all MPs, and I think it takes a lot of all MPs to pass this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21847	I don't think a majority is necessary, and if the law is passed, then it can be done as predicted. So the law can be challenged before the Constitutional Court. I suggest that the HDZ club will have to show itself about this, which means discussing this proposal. And we can cross until it's at other points so we don't waste time and settle this point later, after the HDZ Representatives' Club meets. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Agricultural Land Act. The debate is closed. First of all, we will vote on a proposal for the conclusion of the SDP Representatives' Club, which we voted out and refused. After the government submitted the amendments. ... How could we not? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We voted and then there was a pause. Besides, if anyone suspects it. So, the proposal is the SDP Representatives' Club, which is justified to determine whether we accept that it goes into the third reading. Who's in favor of going to third reading? No one. Who's against it? ... We voted, but here we go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 79 votes for, it's against writing. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And two are against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21849	Mr. President, that's already been voted on. Don't vote twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21850	It's already been voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21851	Well, I'm saying the same thing. But how are we all doing? You'll see it from the phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21852	I suggest since it is not clear to repeat the vote. It wasn't clear if it was voted, it wasn't voted. One shouting was voiced, not voiced. A confusion was introduced to repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21853	The SDP suggested a third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21854	Let's put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21855	Who's to go this law into third reading? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? One. ... I'll allow you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21856	That's what we voted on, Mr. President. It was a proposal from the HNS club. And that's what we voted on. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21857	Thank you. Like this, 70 against, 3 for and 1 abstention. So this law doesn't go into third reading. In accordance with Rule 166 of the Rules of Procedure, most of the MPs, the Government's proposal for an amendment, must agree on such amendments. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Thank you. Who's against it? Restraint? To accept the debate on the government's amendments is 75 and 4 is abstentioned. I ask the Prime Minister's representative, Mr. Bozidar Pankretić, to declare the amendments and explain them. Amendment 1 to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21858	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very brief on Amendment 1 to the Government. In Article 24(1), it is also amended to read: "the investor shall be exempt from payment of the compensation provided for in Article 23 of this Act in the following cases, in respect of the construction of buildings that are used for the recovery of floods, water structures or a system for melioration disposal, water structures for the protection and use of water in the organisation of floods, water structures and other water structures according to a specific regulation", and so on until the end, since it is only a complement to this section relating to social infrastructure and golf courses in a narrow sense and the other proposal is identical in this section.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21859	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this amendment. I'm closing the debate. Who's to accept this amendment to the government? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Three. So 76 for 3 abstentions. 2 amendments to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21860	In Article 81(2) behind the words "earths" are added: "which is located beyond the boundaries of the construction area". The shortest thing is that we want what is within the building area in some way to get out of this law in such a way that it can be directly owned by this agricultural land and it is within the building area itself to deal with it without the consent of the agency and without the units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21861	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this amendment. I'm closing the debate. Who's for the 2nd Amendment of the Government? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The amendment was voted unanimously, with 79 votes. 3 amendments to the Government. In this amendment, Article 89(1) adds the new paragraphs 2 and 3 which read as follows: "In the process of reaching a solution, the agricultural inspector is obliged to request an indication of the owner or owner of the land he or she is obliged to deliver within 30 days of the date of delivery of this request. If the owner or owner of the land does not provide the evidence referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, it will be considered that the agricultural land is not processed without a reasonable reason. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the third amendment to the government. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The amendment was accepted by most votes, 76 votes for and 3 abstentions. We're moving on to the amendments. You have a plate. First, the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21863	This amendment is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21864	It's becoming an integral part. He is the second representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21865	This amendment is not accepted by the government, as the Croatian Parliament ratifies all international agreements, so that is understood. This is the proposal from the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21866	Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21867	Mr. Minister, the extra head doesn't hurt, so there's no reason for this kind of formulation as I suggested not to adopt. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21868	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Third, the HDZ Representatives' Club and the HSS's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21869	This amendment is not accepted by the Government. It is not accepted for reasons because other land such as ponds and infertile land covered by the programme is included here and can be brought to a agricultural purpose and it is necessary to remain in this section in this way defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21870	Club rep, Ms. Mariana.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21871	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21872	This amendment has been withdrawn. Fourth, the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21873	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21874	It's becoming an integral part. Fifth, HDZ and HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21875	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21876	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Sixth, HDZ and HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21877	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21878	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Seven, Mrs. Zdenka Cuhnil's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21879	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21880	There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. He's not accepted. Eight, the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21881	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21882	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Nine, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21883	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21884	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 10th, MP Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21885	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21886	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Eleventh, MP Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21887	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21888	There's no Ms. Prosecution. Who's for this amendment to Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil that you all got? There's no one here. He's not accepted. Twelve representatives of the SDSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21889	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21890	There's no SDSS counseling club. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Three or two, I can't see. Two MPs. So he didn't get the necessary majority. Thirteenth, HDSSB Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21891	The Government does not accept this amendment, because we believe that it is enough to publish on the advertising board in the local self-government unit because it is the most accessible domicile population.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21892	Thank you. Club, here you go, Mr. Shisljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21893	I think it is necessary to ensure transparency for the lease of agricultural land. So, not ambiguity in the law that it can be published in both the public ballots and the advertising board, because it is due to the interpretation that the tender is sufficient to publish only on the district plate. Therefore, I ask that we vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21894	Thank you. Who is for this HDSSB amendment? Three. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21895	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21896	The 14th Amendment becomes an integral part. Fifth, representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21897	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21898	There is no Mr. Representative Josipovic. Who's in favour of this amendment? One. He didn't get the necessary majority. Sixteenth, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21899	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21900	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Seventeenth, U.S.S.S.S.S. Attorney's Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21901	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21902	There's no one in the name of the club. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. He didn't get the necessary majority. Eighteenth, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21904	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21905	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Nineteenth, HDZ and HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21906	He accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21907	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The 20th, HDSSB Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21908	It is not accepted, because in order to determine the facts it proposes, additional skills should be carried out which are often very questionable and very difficult to determine the fact that they are back 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21909	Thank you. Mr. Sišljagic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21910	Therefore, this final proposal for the law established the obligation of extremely high purposes for changing agricultural land within the building area. So the areas for which a spatial plan and a general urban plan has already been adopted, by the way, the fact that land books and other public books of data on these properties do not correspond to the real state. For example, we are all witnessing that today in the relevant books as oranics and meadows are listed, and they are located in the cities and municipalities of the property that were built 30 years ago or that they were already torn down, and that they are being held as oranics and meadows. Therefore, that is why I propose this amendment, so I ask that it be voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21911	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The twenty-first representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21912	It is not accepted because it is also contained in the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21913	There's no Mr. Zvonimir Mrsic. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Twenty-two, HDSSB Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21914	Well, this amendment is actually contained in the government's amendments in that section. I think that the promoters can withdraw it, given that everything within the boundaries of the construction area with the amendment of the Government has been excluded and is not subject to this part. Otherwise, we don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21915	Since he's not exactly the same and I'm asking the same to vote, and the argument is the same, so I'm not wasting my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21916	Thank you. This part of which is not in line with the proposed amendment we vote on. Who's for that part of the amendment, for that amendment, in fact? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. IDS representative club twenty-third amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21917	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21918	There's no one from the club. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. He didn't get the necessary majority. Twenty-fourth, HDZ and HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21919	It's not acceptable, because it's contained in the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21920	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21921	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21922	This amendment has been withdrawn. Twenty-five, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21923	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21924	They become an integral part of the proposal. Twenty-sixth, the HDZ Representatives' Club and the HSS's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21925	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21926	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Twenty-seven, HDSSB Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21927	It is not accepted for the same reasons as before because of the skill and procedure that would delay this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21928	I don't think that's a good explanation I've already given, so please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21929	You're pulling back? Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Legislative Committee, 28th Amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21930	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21931	It's becoming an integral part. 29, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21932	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21933	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 30, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil's representative?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21934	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21935	There's no Ms. Prosecution. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. He didn't make it. 31, the IDS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21936	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21937	There's no one from the IDS. Who's in favour of this IDS amendment? No one. He didn't make it. The 32nd Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21938	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21939	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 33rd, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21940	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21941	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The 34th Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21942	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21943	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 35th, Representative Zdenka Chuhnil?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21944	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21945	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? There's no Ms. Prosecution. No one. He didn't make it. 36th, HDZ and HSS Representatives' Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21946	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21947	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 37th, Representative Dragan Kovacevic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21948	It is not accepted for the reason that we have partially covered this amendment with the part relating to the amendments to the Government, and the part that is outside it cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21949	Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21950	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, this amendment 37 and 39 refers to the same thing, which is the sale of private agricultural land. In fact, that the municipalities or the city that we are already in this process of having agricultural land owned by the state will sell private agricultural land, I will say someone's grandfather and so on, it simply won't work in practice. I think it could have been better done with the agency's first purchase right because look at how we're going to solve the protection of these people. Let us take from the intentional obstruction of officials in the municipality who simply won't announce the competition, keep something on the documentation and so on. So we have no instrument to protect this private owner or what happens in the event of endless repetition of such competitions and so on. So, in this situation, I'm going to withdraw the amendment so I don't violate the concept. On what my proposal is for the establishment of the agency, it will surely be 6, 7, 8 months of adoption of the statutes and so on, really consider this and try to change it because I don't think this on the ground will be well received and will produce major problems. So it's about both the article and the 37th and 39th.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21951	Thank you. They withdrew 37 and 39, if so, MP Dragan Kovacevic. 38th, representative of Ivo Josipovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21952	We don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21953	Are we voting for Mr. Ivo Josipovic's amendment? No one. He didn't make it. The 40th, representative of Zvonimir Mrsic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21954	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21955	Who is for this amendment to Mr. Zvonimir Mrsic, which he does not have? No one. He didn't make it. 41st, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21956	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21957	It's becoming an integral part. 42nd, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21958	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21959	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 43rd, U.S.S.S.S.S.A. Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21960	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21961	Who's for this amendment to the Club of Representatives that he doesn't have? No one. He didn't make it. 44th, Club of Representatives of the SDSS, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21962	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21963	This proposal has not been accepted. Who's in? He's not accepted. There are no MPs. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. 45th, the HDZ Representatives' Club and the HSS's Club of Representatives?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21964	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21965	It's becoming an integral part. 46th, U.S.S.S.S.S.A. Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21966	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-05-0.u21967	This amendment has not been accepted, there is no one from the club. There's no one from the club. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. No one. He didn't make it. Please establish the quorum since one of the MPs has come out. Mr. Hebrang is here. Where's Mr. Hebrang? Please be determined, I see the doctors have done a good job. [[She's out with her.]] 79. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the final proposal of the agricultural land law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Agricultural Land Act was passed with 73 votes for, 2 abstentions and 3 against. What? We repeat the vote because Mr. Stazic is registered here. Please turn this off now. We're voting on this law again. Please choose to vote on this Agricultural Land Act. The result? The law was adopted by a majority of votes, 72 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 3 against, together with the amendments adopted.
