ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12375	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Today, you are facing the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Exporting of dual-purpose goods whose first reading was accepted at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament on 9 May of this year. Based on the comments received and the observations and opinions of the Croatian Parliament, additional consultations with the profession, the Proposer prepared a final draft law, and the difference in the final draft law compared to the text adopted in the first reading refers to a clearer definition of brokers in line with the observations of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the final draft law have also been developed in accordance with the observations of the Nomotechnical Nature Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. A brief reminder, dual-use goods, including computer programs and goods technology that can be used for both civil and military purposes and which can be used in any way or partly for the production of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons. The example of dual-use goods is, for example, radio transmitters for civil purposes, but in a modified version these same radio transmitters can also be used for military purposes, i.e. to interfere with other radio stations as well as radio-navigation devices. The basic amendments and additions to this law relate to the provision of conditions for the transport of dual-use goods, i.e. a ban on transport where there is reasonable doubt that goods used for the production of chemical, biological or nuclear weapons, conditions for the provision of brokerage services, therefore services of a nature broker in the sense of contracts for purchase or direct purchase and the sale of dual-use goods from one country to another. This proposal meets the standards set by the UN Security Council resolution on preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction. Following this, all UN Member States have committed themselves to adopting national rules to prevent the spread of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons. These amendments to the law do not slow down or restrict international trade in materials, equipment and technology used for peace purposes, but allow to stop dual-use goods transactions in case of reasonable doubt that they can be used for the production of weapons of mass destruction. Finally, on the basis of this presentation as well as the changes we have made in relation to the first reading, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament that the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Exporting of dual-purpose goods be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12376	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. It's off the table. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12377	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. When it comes to the export of dual-use goods, I must stress that the Republic of Croatia has established an effective dual-purpose control system for the adoption of the Double-For-For-Britain Export Act in 2004, and the same law has been applicable since 1 January 2005. Since this is a dual-use product, including computer programs and technologies, if it can still be used for both civil and military purposes and goods that can be used for non-explosive purposes, but which can in any way help in the production of nuclear weapons and other nuclear explosive devices. It is therefore necessary to have special controls on exports of dual-purpose goods, and in the role of preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction. We know that this poses a major threat to regional and global security today. When a double-use export law was adopted, one of the most important conditions for membership in international regimes was met, and export control was adopted by the Republic of Croatia in June 2005 and became a member of the control of conventional weapons and goods with dual purpose and groups for the prevention and spread of nuclear weapons and materials, and in April 2007 and to the Australian groups for the control of chemical and biological weapons. On the basis of the Double Purpose Export Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a regulation on the list of dual-use goods, which is regularly in line with European Union regulations. What is the objective of the new law on amendments and additions to the Double-Intent Export Act? It wants to improve, strengthen the dual-use export control system. Standards set by the Security Council Resolution and the United Nations will also be met, referring to the prevention and spread of weapons of mass destruction. By decision of the Security Council and of the United Nations, the States have made a commitment to lay down rules to prevent the spread of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. It is also important to lay down rules governing the transport of dual-purpose goods, which can be used for the production of weapons of mass destruction and to impose penalties for infringements of the rules. In the new law, the transport of dual-use goods listed in the list of goods, and the basis of the law, may prohibit the ministry if the goods could be fully or partially used for the purposes of illegal law. The exporter of goods may be a legal or natural person, a craftsman based on the territory of the Republic of Croatia or a natural person resident in the Republic of Croatia. The dual-use goods may only be exported on the basis of an export licence issued by the Ministry. An application for an export licence shall be submitted to the Ministry and issued on a proposal from the Commission. The Ministry may also annul the authorisation if it is established that the authorisation has been issued on the basis of incorrect and incomplete data. It also provides for penalties for offenders of the law, and they are not small given that they are specific goods. It is important to note that seminars on the supervision of dual-purpose exports to Croatia are also being carried out with domestic exporting producers, with the cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, as well as the Ministry of Economy and representatives of scientific development institutions and customs consignors. They also agreed that it was a slave for civilian and military use, and could also be used for the production of weapons of mass destruction. It is also noted that the most important prevention is the responsible system of export controls, which is precisely in the bill and said. Amendments and additions to this law are acceptable and necessary. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Double-For-For Export Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12378	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12379	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here's just a few sentences. So Croatia has a Double-For-For Export Act since 1 January 2005, where supervision of this goods is established that can be used for both civil and military purposes. The fact is that these amendments and additions want to improve the control of exports or the transport of dual-use goods, but also that the Security Council has adopted its resolution to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction. Therefore, in these amendments and additions to the U.N. Export Law with dual purpose, it is in some way in line with the resolution in terms of, of course, improving supervision with United Nations Security Council Resolution, but also with the proposal from the European Commission, which dates back to the end of December 2006, but which the Council of Europe has not adopted, either. These amendments and additions introduce a new terminology or regulate the export of dual-use goods in a part of the transport of goods. It is also given attention to brokering services, but also to technical assistance. In addition, criminal sanctions have been imposed in these amendments and additions, customs duties have been given to stop all export-related activities, transport-related activities, brokerage services, but also to judicial authorities so that they can impose appropriate sanctions. We think this is a step forward in preventing exports, but also in using them, and especially in controlling goods that can be used for military and civilian purposes. And we believe in the HDSSB that it is a comprehensive law on amendments and additions to this law and the HDSSB of this amendment and the addition of the Double-Defense Export Act will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12380	Thank you. An individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12381	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. According to the first reading, the law was not significantly changed, it was immediately well prepared, and only minor modifications were needed. The law now respects the remarks relating to the definition of brokers. It is now defined that the broker within the meaning of this law is a legal or natural person, a craftsman based on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and provides brokering services. There have also been nomotechnical adjustments according to the suggestions of the Office of Law. With this law, Croatia becomes part of a network of countries that find solutions to protection against terrorism through the United Nations Security Council. One of the measures is the control of the export of goods which can be used for military purposes and which can assist in the production of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices. Given the quality of both the formal and the content of the solution and the improvements involved, I support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12382	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12383	Your Honor, Mr. President. So here's a few words I think of this important law with several aspects. Speaking for the first time about this law, exactly on April 21st 2004, I said this: this law deserves a lot more attention. But for various reasons, some important things pass by us too quickly and we do not see their full significance. Why? It's an important and key question, and that's why I'd like to say more about it. I think there's a lot that's been said in a certain way to simplify the essence. To speak of dual-use goods means to speak directly about high technologies, because only those goods that have such character have reason to be used in the development of the most sophisticated weapons and military equipment. And it's a crucial thing that I don't think is sufficiently recognized and highlighted. Talking about dual-use goods means, at the same time, a knowledge-based economy. They should be aware of that, because exactly the most advanced technologies used in military programs have that kind of character. How much we import these technologies shows and points to the structure of the economy, complex sophistication, the ability to generate a competitive product and generate at global level a new added or innovative value. At the same time, talking about this law means what is only being discussed about the abuse of human knowledge and the possible misuse of high-tech, unfortunately today in the function of international terrorism. And in this complex, these three aspects need to be monitored by this law, and I would therefore like to say more about that first part of this law that points to high technology, the structure of the economy of a country, indirectly to the economy based on the knowledge of the proliferation of such products, is a great danger to world peace and security, and therefore a whole series of different international laws of high standards are controlled by the distribution of such equipment in the modern world. And I'd say, my personal feeling, I'm sure knowing certain people, that the Ministry of Economy has expert expertise experts who can deal with the complexity of these arbitrations. To conclude what the product is, although it exists in the list of goods, is not trivial, nor simple tasks, but requires multidisciplinary knowledge and expertise from all over the area and I will also say something about it. Which means double-use goods, computer programs and information, I'd say the knowledge that belongs to that area. I remember well when, 30 years ago, as a young engineer, I received a piece of paper from an experienced rocket system teacher, he taught flight mechanics and aerodynamics, and then he told me, says Krešimire, you can get a million dollars for this paper page. I said, how? Well, he says these are your aerodynamic derivatives "P" and "T" rockets. In order to obtain this data, you have to conduct tests in the aerodynamic tunnels for months, and in order to do so, almost half of the former state of Gerdap was powered by the aerodynamic tunnels that provided such experiments. Therefore, it is indeed very complex products, technologies, knowledge, whose distribution today in a world like this deserves special control. An integral and important part of this bill is also a list of goods of dual use. This list of goods is very indicative and very useful and very significant, again from the aspect of economic development, technology development, etc. As said in this document, as last year, the largest number of changes was in the categories that have seen the greatest technological progress. From year to year, lists of dual-use goods are changed as a result of technological development, scientific research, etc. In the first instance, major and key changes occurred in Chapter 3, i.e. category 3, relating to electronics. Then in Chapter 6, which refers to sensors and lasers, etc. and for these reasons, it is very important to look at formal statistics, to measure dual-use goods, especially these categories 3, which represent the most complex, state-of-the-art electronic systems, imports to the Republic of Croatia, because this is in some way an indicator of the development of one economy. Among the several hundred pages on which there are a list of different categories of these goods, I will highlight some that are well-recognizable to me, since I am an electric engineer and I can competently say what that means. Multi-chip integrated circuits, hybrid integrated circuits, integrated multi-chip circuits, optical integrated circuits, etc. Microprocessors, microchips, fast memory, furir processors, neural nets, but all of these systems that work in so-called ".." the extended temperature area and therefore can be accepted in military systems, because they have such strict temperature and technological requirements and exclusive and sole purpose, that usually when such systems are delivered, they are working in the difficult coils in the environment, primarily military systems require such applications, such requirements. Digital signal processors, analoguely digital, digital analogue converters, when they look at their characteristics around resolution, the speed of conversion, then it is seen to be the top technological spike of what they produce the most modern, advanced companies in the modern world. And that's why, when we talk about the dual-use list that way, then we're really talking about the abilities of certain economies to use such technology. Such technology gives exactly what is said to be a highly competitive product. It certainly wasn't easy to translate everything that was in this law, so now I wouldn't talk about it anymore. And finally, seeing as the time has passed quickly, I'd say the following. An important step has been taken in this law, and I would eventually commend this law. When I spoke four years ago, then I said about, given the character of these slaves, the criminal provisions are inadmissiblely low. 50 thousand kuna for someone who can endanger the political integrity of the Croatian state on an international stage, exporting without permission a dual-purpose goods that can be applied in modern systems that can be misused within what we call international terrorism. Very recently these criminal provisions were amended in June. At that time, the following is said, the fine will punish up to 250% of the value of the exported work and not less than 50 thousand kuna, and speaking again about those criminal provisions, I said are not in line with the meaning and size of the possible violation with the severe political consequences for the Republic of Croatia. And now, here we have come to this last version of this law, which, in a few days, will be adopted in which it is clearly recognized, the character and sensitivity of the proliferation of dual-purpose goods. And in Article 18a, I conclude with that is among other things the following. Persons who do so legally or physically will be punished by imprisonment from 6 months to 5 years in accordance with the severity of the offence. In this sense, I support this modification of this law and it seems to me that it shows that the importance of controlling the proliferation of dual-use goods is fully understood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12384	Thank you. And Mr. Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12385	Thank you, Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, representatives of the ministry, representatives of the ministry, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a second reading of the final proposal for a double-use export law. We also had a positive discussion on the first draft of this law in the first debate and, as the State Secretary said, the proposals and remarks were adopted and incorporated into the text of the final draft law, so it is expected that we should unanimously adopt this law, only one in a series of laws that the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is harmonising with the legislation of the European Union. From the amendment of Article 1 of this Act in relation to the first reading which is now read, I quote: "This Law lays down the conditions for exporting and transporting dual-use goods, providing brokerage services and technical assistance in relation to dual-purpose goods, the jurisdiction of the administration authority in the implementation of this law, the rights and obligations of exporters carrying out dual-use export of goods and brokerage service providers and technical assistance relating to dual-use goods."and a whole series of articles stemming from the proposed amendments both on the Committee on the Economy and here in the debate. It is evident that what has been proposed has been accepted and built into the law. As already said, dual-use goods include computer programs, computer technology that can be used for both civil and military purposes, which includes, of course, terrorist purposes. Also, goods that can be used for non-explosive purposes, as well as those that can in any way assist in the production of nuclear weapons or other nuclear and explosive devices. That is why transport requires special attention. That is exactly what is important in the current Double-Intent Export Act and in its task of controlling the transport of such goods, of course, and the export of such goods. The adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Double-Food Export Act aims to strengthen the existing system of supervision, exports of dual-purpose goods to the Republic of Croatia and, in this respect, the greatest importance for Croatia is the adoption of this law, of course, with compliance with the legislation of the European Union. Of course I'm going to make a positive statement about this law and I believe that other colleagues and colleagues in this House will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12386	Thank you. And final Mrs. Secretary of State Tamara Obradovic-Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12387	Thank you, Mr. President, I thank you for one broad support of this extremely important law. This law could not be implemented if there was no such thing as the esteemed representative Cosic mentioned that there is no regulation on the list of dual-use goods from which a list of thousands and thousands can be seen on 220 pages, tens of thousands of slaves who can have both peace-doping and, of course, the unwanted purpose. In that sense, of course our economy as well as everyone interested in "The People's Newspaper" No. 57./08. I can see the exact categorization, the exact kind of goods we've identified according to other... The Australian group as well as the chemical convention of goods with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the dual-use goods which are, inter alia, in accordance with Regulation 1183 of 2007. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Two amendments have been submitted to this law. One of the Committees on Legislative Laws which the Government is here on this path, I am free to say, accept, as well as the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, which the Government also has this way, I am also taking this opportunity to accept this amendment. And once again thanks to everyone for recognising the quiet and quality work, the Ministry of Economy, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course what is crucial is also in the application of this law our own administrative capacity and in this segment thanks to the recognition of the people who work and stand behind this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12388	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And they'll decide once the conditions are met. Eighteenth, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Double-For-For Export Act was a second reading of P.Z.E. No. 47. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and MP Krunoslav Markovanovic. The applicant's representative accepted these amendments in the debate. They become an integral part of the bill. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Double-For-For Export Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This law was adopted by a majority of 93 votes in favour and 2 abstentions along with the amendments adopted, and the Legislative Committee proposes the adoption of the next conclusion to the Parliament. The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out a revision of the text of this law prior to its publication in "The People's Newspaper". I am voting on the Committee's conclusion. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This law passed with 90 votes for, 2 abstentions along with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12391	Thank you very much President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have the final draft laws on amendments and additions to the Free Zones Act, the fundamental purpose of which is to coordinate the free zones system in the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union and to prepare the Republic of Croatia for full membership in the European Union. The main issues to be covered by the amendments and additions to this law are the following: the questions of registration of users of free zones. Therefore, users of zones operating in the zone must be registered in the Republic of Croatia to carry out that activity. Next question of the activity of users of free zones. Area users cannot carry out specific financial activities, i.e. banking and other monetary activities within the zone and insurance and resecuritisation services of assets and persons. An investment support scheme for free zones is adopted and the basis of the Investment Encouragement Act, which is in line with the European Union acquis, is adopted and a stepwise reduction of existing fiscal support, i.e. the proposed model of fiscal support degression, is limited to the maximum duration of the period until 2016 and is related to the degree of regional development and respects the rules on support for small value. With an extremely important and successful solution, we can assess a legal solution for existing users of free zones that have invested in free zones during the past period until the entry into force of this law and use existing fiscal support. Let me explain. Do, in the current Free Zones Act, users of free zones had the right to several support. Therefore, for procedures and goods passing through a free zone and goods which were therefore in the process were exempt from customs payments. Also, users of free zones were exempt from paying value added tax for each investment that was more than a million kuna in 5 years free zone users were entitled to a tax relief of 100% but a maximum of 5 years to a level of investment. And another aid that was unrelated whether you invested in a free zone or didn't invest in a free zone during the duration of the concession while in the free zone you were entitled to 50% tax relief. The guidelines on regional support of the European Union do not therefore allow support for tax relief unless someone invests, do not employ new jobs, it is considered that such support is not fair. And they also don't allow 100% relief for someone who, in a longer, longer period, invests in a zone. For this reason we have made one transitional model or transitional solution for users, existing users of free zones. Therefore, all those users of free zones who have invested in free zones until the day of entry into force of this new law will have the right to take advantage of the tax relief so that all those who have invested a million kuna by 2000, by 31.12.2016, will continue to receive a 0% tax for them, but up to the maximum, therefore, with respect to the ceiling of the investment support intensity prescribed by the regional support map. For those users of free zones, therefore, I am talking about current users who have used fiscal support and have not invested 50% of tax incentives or not invested, a transitional period has been agreed for such users until 2014 for the free zones located in Varazdinska and in the Zagreb region. And for users of free zones located in the regions of so-called eastern Slavonia, the Adriatic region. So the regions that are in, which are less developed in these regions is the use of 50% tax relief support by 2016, i.e. for the city of Vukovar by 2017. In the end, we can highlight a few important conclusions. For the first time, the amendments to the Free Zones Act are primarily governed by the question of harmonisation of the legal framework and the basis of Article 70. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as I note that in 2003, the signing of the agreement should already have been brought into line with the guidelines on regional support. Similarly, this proposal, Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act introduces a complete system of investment incentive measures and the Investment Encouragement Act, and I will note that these are tax benefits, customs benefits, support for eligible costs for the opening of new jobs related to investment, support for eligible costs of investment-related improvement, incentive measures for the establishment and development of technological and innovation resources and strategic business support activities, and specific incentive measures for large investment projects which are of significant economic interest to the Republic of Croatia. Also, this Law provides transitional solutions for existing users of free zones who have invested until the entry into force of this law and designed a "fezing out" therefore a tax advantage exit model for those users of free zones that do not invest in the zones. We believe that this law will and will encourage the current users of free zones for each new investment they have in the zone, for each new employment, they can seek relief from the new law which is related to the Investment Encouragement Act and for existing users who therefore do not want to invest further has therefore been adopted, a transitional period has been adopted so that they can benefit from the relief that we have the right to. We believe that this law has fully fulfilled its main mission and this is the transformation of the existing system of operations within the free zones of the Republic of Croatia with a free zones system compatible with the acquis of the European Union, while preserving and further developing all free zones, preserving and recognising free zones as a generator for the economic development of less developed areas of the Republic of Croatia compared to the overall economy. Maintaining the image of free zones as specific economic areas within the Republic of Croatia with an emphasis on the attractive system of incentive measures for investment and business for both domestic and foreign investors. I would like to thank all the committees who have given their opinions on this law and who have supported this law and also note that we accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12392	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Economy, President of the Committee, Mr Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12393	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected State Secretary, fellow MPs and MPs. At the 11th session held on 23 June 2008, the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Zones with the final draft law, and we discussed it as a parent body. In the opening presentation of the proposing representative, it explained the reasons for the adoption of the legislative proposal. In the Committee delivered to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, it was stated that users in the existing free zones will have significantly changed conditions in relation to the conditions under which they decided to invest and operate in free zones, which are therefore contained in the existing contracts between users and free zones. In addition to this opinion, the Commissioner's chamber explained that the support models and the level of support cannot be subject to a concession agreement and that it is a matter of economic policy of each country. Under the current Free Zone Act, the user of the zone which builds or participates in the construction of infrastructure facilities in the zone of more than one million kuna in the first five years of business in the zone has been exempt from paying taxes on profits. Other users in the zone pay a profit tax of 50% of the prescribed rate. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws of the users of the zones which, until the entry into force of this law, have invested in the construction or participation in the construction of buildings of more than one million kuna, without taking advantage of the upper limit of the permitted investment aid intensity and related to the city of Vukovar in 2017, in accordance with the Investment Encouragement Act. In fact, that law prescribes the ways and conditions of investment in the Republic of Croatia and is in line with the acquis of the European Union so that both existing and future users of the zone can fully and under equal conditions use of the incentive measures provided for in the Investment Encouragement Act. When it comes to total investments in the zone, it should be pointed out that they amount to around one billion and 900 million kuna, while the intensity of the use of tax benefits in the period 2001/2005. A year. It's only 1.16% and around 188 million, respectively. The reason for the lower intensity towards the applicant, therefore, and the use of fiscal support lies in the fact that the full use of the fiscal need requires a certain period of time because in the first years since the start of business, investment is not even realistically expected to have an optimal level of production, i.e. the provision of services to which the entrepreneur generates full profit from business. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12394	Thank you. He wants on behalf of the other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12395	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act, with the Final Bill. The law on free zones currently in force was passed in 1996. The main purpose of the adoption of this law was to increase investment in the Republic of Croatia through a special form of business, since free zones represent areas in which the business regime which differs from other territory of the State applies. In these areas, tax and customs incentives which allow for more favourable operating conditions apply. The fundamental purpose and objective of amending and supplementing the Free Zones Act, which we are discussing today, is to bring the free zones system in the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union, and to prepare the Republic of Croatia for full membership of the European Union. When we talk about the importance of free zones then it is important to stress that today, in the Republic of Croatia, a total of 13 free zones are active in which 7620 workers are employed. Total investment in the zones is around 2 billion kuna, and within the area of free zones more than 350 users. Here I would especially highlight one of the largest free zones in the Republic of Croatia. It is a free zone of Rijeka's port, the founder and manager of Rijeka's Port Administration, which has been operating since September 1997. The free area of Rijeka port extends to a million 636 000 square metres and has an extremely important impact on economic development not only of the Primorje-Gorski County and the city of Rijeka but also of Croatia as a whole. It is an interesting fact that the free zone of the Rijeka port brings roots back to the Karl VI era, which in 1719 declared Rijeka and Trieste free ports. It is important to stress that free zones have extremely high economic effects both on overall economic development and on the balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia since most of the free zones are located in counties with extremely high unemployment rates ranging between 15% and 29% and extremely low gross domestic product levels per capita compared to gross domestic product per capita of EU Member States 25. Furthermore, users of free zones earn a high share of production revenues of over 50%, compared to the total economy of the Republic of Croatia where the share of revenue from production activities is 23%. Free zones also contribute to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises since almost 90% of all users of free zones represent the small and medium-sized economy of the Republic of Croatia with an average of 77 employees per entrepreneur. It is an extremely important fact that, according to the estimates of the users of the free zones, two to three thousand new jobs are planned for the next two to three years. The basic issues that are regulated by this law are the following. Area users carrying out economic activity in the zone must be registered in Croatia for the purpose of carrying out that activity. Furthermore, users of the zone cannot carry out specific financial activities, i.e. banking and other monetary activities within the zone and insurance and resecuritisation services of assets and persons. A system of incentive measures shall be coordinated for users of the zone with the acquis of the European Union. The adoption of a phasing-out scheme for existing fiscal support, i.e. I refer to the proposed model of fiscal degression, which is a limited duration. Therefore, the maximum duration by the end of 2016 is related to the degree of regional development and respects the rules on support of small value. An extremely important issue for the existing users of the area that have invested in the free zone until the entry into force of this law and using existing fiscal support has been resolved in a way that users continue to use tax support further, subject to compliance with the ceiling of investment support support by the end of 2016. On the date of entry into force of this law, the existing and future users of the zone will fully and on equal terms allow the use of a total of 6 types of incentive measures under the Investment Encouragement Act, which are the following measures. These are therefore tax benefits that are conditioned by the level of investment and the number of new jobs, customs benefits then support for the eligible costs of opening new jobs associated with investments ranging from a thousand-and-a-half euros for newly opened jobs in counties with a unemployment rate below 10% to 4 and a half thousand euros in counties above 20% unemployment. The following support is support for the eligible costs of training employees. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase of equipment belonging to the category of high-tech equipment. Incentive measures for large investment projects which are of particular interest, these measures therefore apply to the economically weakest developed areas of the Republic of Croatia in which the unemployment rate is registered is over 20%, which encourage the construction of a new factory or industrial plant, the launch of new economic activity, the development of new technologies and the like. Finally, several important conclusions can be drawn, which is that these amendments to the Law on Free Zones are governed by the issue of harmonisation of the legal legislation in the area of free zones in the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union in the area of state regional support. And the next conclusion is that, through the introduction of a whole system of incentive measures to invest under the Investment Encouragement Act, by conceived transitional solutions for existing users of free zones that have invested until the entry into force of this law and by designing a model of a gradual reduction of tax advantage, this law fully transforms the existing system of operations within free zones in the territory of the Republic of Croatia into a free zone system compatible with the legal property of the European Union. At the same time, it is possible to preserve and further develop all free zones in the Republic of Croatia as well as to preserve and recognise free zones as a generator of economic growth and development of less developed areas of the Republic of Croatia compared to the overall economy and to preserve the free zones as specific economic areas within the Republic of Croatia with a prominent system of incentive measures for investment and business of domestic and foreign investors. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community gives full support to the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12396	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12397	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Many things have been said about business zones, the importance and value of business zones. It also writes in this law, which is that they have an extremely significant economic impact on the overall regional development, in particular I underline the potential in regional development, achieve a high share of revenue from production activities, which is an extremely rare thing in our economy, etc., etc. I don't want to read the law now. This type of coordination with the European Union was also spoken last week when we also talked about mountainous and mountainous areas. Something that we must do and something that the Resorient Ministry has really done in quality, but the key issue is also something that needs to be talked about more strongly, which is our negotiating positions in the negotiations. This is our position and our decision to protect the interests of this country when we talk about negotiating with the European Union and when we talk about, this is about harmonising with the legislation in the tax area, it is known that our negotiating team in negotiations with the European Union has asked for three things when we talk about taxes. First, to permanently free religious communities from paying taxes when talking about donations, donations to build what functions are building sacral objects. Our question was and our question today is why are the other NGOs not in that position? The government did not accept the argument and the government did not fight for the position. Another thing that we fully support, which is that in the six-year transitional period, wartime military disableds are also freed from paying taxes on imports of cars for our own needs, which we certainly support, but there is one third thing that definitely leaves or gives the need for one huge questionnaire, while also citing various possible speculations. A six-year transitional period is required to raise excise duties on cigarettes and other tobacco processing. Fact... The argument that I'm familiar with and the rest of the governments are asking for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the fact that the government is preparing a completely justified ban on smoking in certain places is a question of why the government is then against the collection of cigarettes because raising excise duties is certain to introduce the price of cigarettes, while asking the European Union for a six-year transitional period. And it is known that excise duties are also state revenue, income from the state budget. And now I ask the question why and why the government didn't, or the negotiating team according to government instructions, why they didn't fight and why they didn't ask that in at least six years of time, as required for cigarettes, tobacco products, why wasn't they asked for free zones? I think there's a huge gap here, and I think that something that's in the economic sense an extremely great potential, and it's proven through complete data, that thanks to that, I'm not going to use a rough word, but in any case let's say a lack of vision missed the chance that something that is the generator of regional development, which is the generator of opening new jobs, that we didn't at least ask for it, we didn't even ask for it. The second is that we asked for it and we didn't get it, but we didn't even ask for it. I think there's been a leak and I think there's been a mistake. Another thing that must be particularly highlighted when we talk about this, and it is present in these other laws when we talk about tax harmonisation. There is something that we in the Croatian People's Party have already spoken strongly about, these are statistical regions. It is evident from this that only because the northwestern Croatian city of Zagreb is involved, and there are ways, there were ways, there are ways that the city of Zagreb will not be included in the statistical region of Northwest Croatia, this statistical region loses three years compared to other regions. Namely, Northwest Croatia is coming out of these tax benefits in 2014, and others are leaving 2017. One segment, and we were not challenged with anything, we had a thousand arguments, a thousand possibilities to give northern Croatia the same chance that other parts of Croatia have, but we are stubborn. No, we're not. Therefore, in this small segment, it is visible in addition to those when we talk about pre-accession aids, aids, 200 million at an annual level, 200 million euros per year, for which Northwestern Croatia is damaged, in fact, losing its right to lose its ability. And to make the tragedy even bigger, no one else gets it. I think that's where we also showed one awkwardness to the damage of a region and to the damage of a part of this country. And a third thing I have to do, purely technical, but knowing the experience, I have to mention it. Article 4 states that users of zones intending to use support to invest the prescribed paragraph 2 of this Article are obliged to deliver to the Ministry of Economy the value of the investments and the aid used, etc. Now it says that this calculation can be done, I can verify only by independent legal and physical persons. According to some of my information, I don't know if it's true, there are all five or six of them who have that license. Maybe he's blaming the data. But it's good and it's something that's gonna get rid of, but I think it's gonna be hard to get rid of. Furthermore, the Rules on how to calculate the value of the investments made and the support used for the investment of paragraph 6 of this Article shall be adopted by the Minister responsible for the Economy, with the agreement of the Minister of Finance. So the regulations bring in 90 days plus vacations, we'll just go in at 11.12. Will it arrive, will the free-zone entrepreneurs be able to use the rights they have under this law? I hope this problem doesn't turn up, but I do need to stress it, knowing from other parts that we're in these things, especially in the deadlines pretty slow. In any case, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act, which the Resorient Ministry has made very correctly. The bases in the negotiations with the European Union from which this law is based are definitely not used in the way it could be used, and could definitely be used because the issue of free zones has not been opened. The Croatian People's Party club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12398	Thank you. State Secretary Tajana Kesic Sapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12399	Thank you very much. Here, I'd just like to explain things about taxes. When we talk about tax relief, we have two levels. Thus, one level of tax relief set out in the guidelines on regional aid, therefore relating to support. This is one part of the story, and the other part of the story is a matter of value added tax, which users of free zones according to the current law, so they were exempt from paying value added tax. The Directive of the Council of the European Union relating to value added tax does not recognise and says that there can be no territory in one country that would be amnesty, therefore in which value added tax is not paid on services and goods coming from a country where the free zone is located. So it will have to be in the Republic of Croatia. So we have put Ms. Martina Dalic in the negotiating position of the Ministry of Finance, so we have put the VAT in the free zones not to be paid until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union and we have put it in a negotiating position. And the Council Directive says that exemptions in free zones and in specific areas of economic importance for a country can be decided or can be negotiated by Member States, which means the moment when the Republic of Croatia becomes a member of the European Union at that time will be able to request exemptions for zones of special interest. So, until the entry into the European Union, we also got a written statement from the European Commission because we deliberately returned this article from the Tax Law to this Free Zones Act. Otherwise he wasn't in this law, he was in IRS. We deliberately returned it by making sure that free zones do not have to pay VAT until the entry into the European Union, and at that moment, before the Republic of Croatia enters the European Union, when Croatia is able to negotiate, for example, for some strategic free zones such as ports that have very large investments related to the World Bank, so the European Bank, where their investment would be significantly raised if they had to pay VAT. So these are special cases that will, of course, be agreed at a time when it will be possible, but it is not true, we have really asked and the Ministry of Economy has insisted that this be put into a negotiating position, but to protect ourselves we have put it exactly, put it back into this Free Zone Act to keep the zones safe, at least until the entry into the European Union, and then the negotiators will see further how it will be done. As regards support, these tax reliefs are related to support, the European Union Regional Support Guidelines are worth from 2007 to 2013. Therefore, the Ministry of Economy managed to obtain tax reliefs for users, current users of free zones by 2016 for investments, i.e. 50%, whether or not they invested from 2014 to 2017, which exceeds the deadline for which the guidelines of the European Union apply. So I think we've also made a big step and a great effort to get them to admit it to us. So I don't see the argument and the reason, maybe we could get more. We asked for the maximum, what we got, we had to accept it. So we really went beyond the deadline prescribed by the European Union. And it is very difficult for negotiators on the contrary to defend themselves against the Council, i.e. according to all the members, why would the Republic of Croatia now allow until 2025, when already in 2003, the Republic of Croatia, by signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is an international contract above all of our domestic agreements, is obliged to abolish these support, or not to abolish it, but to bring them into line with the support of the European Union, has not been made so far, and all the free zones knew they would have to do so, they have been prepared, for years they know that one day they will have to end, that someone who has no investment, who has one employee and is involved in repacking, that they will be able to use a 50% tax relief for their whole life. That's not fair to our entrepreneurs either. We have entrepreneurs in 250 entrepreneurial zones in the Republic of Croatia who have even more investment than they do in free zones and have no right, so they did not have the right to 50% release, even though they earned, even though they employ larger business areas around 18 thousand employees. So it must and does mean those criteria in granting state aid and tax relief, and free zones remain those zones, where there is no payment of customs duty until the entry into the European Union of VAT, after entering the European Union the same issue of customs duty, when we become a common market, means only those goods and goods operations coming from some third countries will also be the release of customs duties. So, all of this should be taken into account together and then said. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12400	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12401	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, I repeat again and you yourself said in your presentation, the Ministry of Economy has requested. I repeat once again, the Ministry of Economy has done its part of the job properly. You yourself said that negotiations with the European Union, when it comes to taxes, are run by the Ministry of Finance. I said it out loud and clear, the position we could use, and I'm talking about a tax exemption, I'm not talking about VAT. Something that we have signed and we have an obligation, something that is cloudy in terms of performance, something we could use, and we haven't used, and we haven't asked, if you're not looking for anything, then you can't use it. So that was my finding, and in any case what you're doing at the Ministry of Economy, I support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12402	IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12403	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed gentlemen of the council. I'll speak a little differently than the HDZ club or the secretary of state. So somehow, let's start in order. What's the point of this bill? It is said here that in the Republic of Croatia there are 13 free zones in which 7 thousand 620 workers are employed. Total investments in the zones amount to a billion 953 million kuna, while the intensity of tax benefits in the period 2001, 2005 is extremely low, only 1.16% and 188.5 million kuna respectively, compared to the tax benefits used by all taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia, amounting to 2.39% and 387 million kuna respectively. Furthermore, within the area of free zones, about 350 users operate. Why is this law bad? We changed that bill in 2005 and then we claimed that we were de facto with this law, so in 2005, we invented hot water, and now in 2008, we again claim that we invented not hot, but now milk water. As they operate on the other side of the free zone, I think any representative of the Ministry of Economy should go see it in China. Exactly, I think our Ministry of Economy, including those who decide on the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, should learn from communist China. Why? Just one final piece of information. It's not a banana, it's extremely serious. China exports to Croatia about a billion dollars of various goods. Our exports to China are about $20 million, slightly above $20 million. So the exchange of goods is one-on-eighty in favor of communist China. Now what's the point in this law? In this law, we reduce tax relief. I do not know if it is necessary to mention this again for north-west Croatia, then for central-Eastern Croatia, or for the City of Vukovar, etc. And now that I'm not talking about those rates from- to-and-years, because it's very strict here prescribed, here I want to say the following, however. What's the point? The Croatian state signed long-term contracts on 15-25 years to draw clearly that capital into free zones. On the occasion, these investors are told the following, come invest and you will have at least 25 years of a certain relief in profit tax. Not only have they been told that they will have certain tax reliefs, but it is clearly unequivocal and precise in those contracts that have been certified by public notebooks and so on. Now it comes in 2008, the Croatian government is negotiating something with Brussels, and now this law is changing. The truth is, we have a relatively few investors in those free zones, about 350, so the investor, only 7 thousand 620 employees. So this existing law and the one that follows is even worse. Or Croatia, however, is not so attractive if it is about the law, if it is about Croatia, Croatia is not so attractive for investment, for investors, we need to understand that clearly. It is likely to be even worse, the gross social product in this country is falling, it is falling clearly in the countries of our environment, and I fear that some of that capital will begin to run away and that only monopolies who will have an interest will come to Croatia to take over our monopolies from HEP and beyond. Now, what happens next. Our investors in those free zones, it doesn't matter where they came from, they ended up investment, they're somewhere, we can say at the start of the economic cycle and now the state is telling them, we're changing your business conditions, what we previously signed or negotiated, so it was just a little unsaved joke. However, I dare say that such jokes, jokes of such a type are not one serious behavior, it can't be one state or state policy. We gentlemen, by changing these dispositions, have defacto deceived investors, and that is neither fair nor perspective, in one word it is not a wise policy. That I am right to testify and protest the Croatian Free Zones Association, they not only stand on being deceived but they are even afraid of the lawsuits of various investors because they all say they have signed contracts with the Croatian government, whether these lawsuits will be, I don't know, probably not. The use of the support, I said it's relatively small, but once again I'm going to say, quite frankly it can't be one state policy, today you can do something and tomorrow you can't do it either. This leads to one legal uncertainty and it certainly is not good. On the other hand, we know that free zones should have been one key, how do I call it a regional period, for example? one Vukovar, one Osijek, and now in 2017 and one Vukovar will be equal to the other investors in other parts of the Republic of Croatia, as my predecessor used to say in northwestern Croatia, it will be 2014. The truth is, in the gross social product of the free zone, they don't even participate with 1%. In fact 0.7%, but no matter what, by my court contract, especially if the government is behind it should be sacred. The truth is, what the secretary of state told us, the European Union insists on that law. On the other hand, one good part of the capital in those free zones is precisely European Union capital. And now wouldn't it make sense in my court that someone tried to explain to Brussels, say, one position of Vukovar, Eastern Slavonia, what I know about the city of Osijek etc., etc., that he tried to make an effort and say what horrors these areas went through, that the destruction, the destruction there happened, how many exiled populations were, what problems these spaces have with the return of these international tensions, etc., etc. It's clear, I don't know, in all these issues, there's no need to worry about a businessman who comes and invests, but I think that all of this must be taken care of by politicians who have the mandate of Croatian citizens. Why on the other hand is the law changing? And because Europe sees relief in statistical regions and not in ex-terroral areas. To us in Istria, I would even dare say such a legal proposal in some way fits, but generally it does not fit those areas where these zones are located in Croatia. So my proposal would be to honor existing free zones contracts, i.e. entrepreneurs working in those areas. After that, probably future zones will no longer be in Croatia and we are going in the direction and, for other users, we are going in the direction of then European regulations. I think that would be one compromise. But what might actually be the essence of such a legal proposal when we talk to people who run free zones. They think it's really about not understanding the foreign inspectorate how the zones work. The foreign currency inspectorate, not the European Union, has asked that there is no business in the free zones if there is no branch office in Croatia. And these same foreign currency inspectors then show one complete misunderstanding and the functioning of free zones because the meaning of free zones is that they freely change the owners and customs and taxes are paid clearly after leaving the zone. Now any such transaction should be run by accounting, tax should be paid clearly, and goods, I don't know on one ship, in external waters, and ten times change owners until, say, they reach their destination. The Necessidendes used the services of our freighters, they used the services of our warehouses, distributors, and in this way, they wanted to admit it to me or not to contribute to the development of this country, and with the new law I am afraid or they are afraid that they might go somewhere else, where, as a rule, across the border, to our neighborhood, where probably in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. But first of all, this Serbia, to be clear, I have nothing against Serbia, however, I am glad that our capital is there. Last year, it seems to me that Croatia, Croatia's investments in Serbia, were right behind Switzerland, and that's good because it encourages exports. In this way, this negative balance of payments is changing, and I am not talking about everything else that, what, what, do contribute to such investments, and then really when we know what effect can be achieved here, it is not correct that in some markets like this in Zagreb, what has been Scandicated: "Kill, kill a Serb" at Thompson's concert and now the same Thompson despite the opposition of the mayors in Umag, Umag is coming to Istria and the question of what, that is... what's going to happen there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, I agree with Sanader that this concert in Zagreb was counterproductive, and what can happen in Istria could be a serious provocation and that should be said. Otherwise, this law is counterproductive in my court, and I don't think we needed it at this point in one of these forms.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12404	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12405	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct Mr Cain's incorrect claim that given the contracts signed between concessionaires and users of free zones, or the rights defined by the contract and this new one under the law, it is a non-salt joke, is it not? So it's not true. All those who, on the basis of their investments, had to realise over one million kuna, had to realise some of the support they would implement by 2016 and 2017, but no longer in accordance with the Free Zones Act but under the Investment Encouragement Act. Nor can contracts between concessionaries and users of the free zone be above the law and no one by contract can determine the economic policy of the government and thus no incentive measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12406	State Secretary Tajana Kesic-Sapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12407	Thank you very much. One little clarification. Therefore, Article 37a and b relate to a reduction in tax relief for the current users of free zones which are in free zones and, for example, did not make investments. And there's very few of them. So all those who have invested in them will be accounted for both material assets and immaterial assets of investments and also all new jobs for the whole time while in the free zone, therefore for each open new job for two years gross wages, so for each open job they will enter as an investment. Which so far, it wasn't. Thus, by 2016 and 2017 respectively, they will apply their right to do so. Let's just say the other day I had a conversation with a big customer, and I'm not going to mention now that he's had a huge investment of over 200 million kunas. So he should have made billions and won that in 5 years he would have managed to implement his reliefs by virtue of the Free Zones Act of 100% and they were satisfied, they are now allowed to do so in 2016. They are making greater reliefs, therefore, which they will receive on the basis of investments, the investment rights they have now meant with this extension than they have so far. Our goal is precisely because the Investment Encouragement Act says nicely that all those investors and investors investing in areas such as Vukovar, such as the whole of Dalmatia, have greater tax benefits than they mean in central Croatia. So they will also have much greater relief under the new Free Zone Act. What bothers you is I believe this part of Article 37a, which refers to current users who have not made investments. They therefore have an option whether, if they are to calculate all investments and to be recognised by 2016 by all these incentives or if they have not invested, they will have the right until 2014, 2016 and 2017 respectively, depending on which part of Croatia they come from, so where is the free zone, to use that part of the 50 right with a degressive reduction if they do not invest. We aim at all users of the free zones and the current and future investment in free zones, to hire new employees and therefore the state will give them support. We won't support someone who doesn't invest and hires what's not their goal. One more answer regarding the contracts. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Economy, has not signed contracts with the users of the zone. With users of free zones, contracts have signed concessionaries to whom the state has awarded concessions for the area of opening the free zone. I have a contract with me between the concessionaires of a free zone and the users of a free zone, which in Article 7 says: "If the change of the fiscal rules regarding concessionaires is possible, the user may continue to carry out the activity but under the general conditions in force in the Republic of Croatia." So this concession contract where the free zone user is given the right, that means that it is in the free zone, to use the reliefs that are in force in the Republic of Croatia at that moment. No one says 30 years won't change a regulation. But that's why contracts are so conjecture between concessionaires. The second is if a concessionary puts in the contract a relief which, of course, he shouldn't have done because a concessionaire can't promise a free zone user 50, that 50% will free him from taxes. So I don't think there's any basis based on these agreements for lawsuits, and all the users of the free zones that have by the Constitution the right to return from investment-enhancing means with the basis of investment-enhancing will be able to use all of their reliefs and benefits based on the old Law on Free Zones under this new law. Amendments still, addition, Amendments to the 2005 Law were not related to reliefs. They were tied only to the escape of one part of the law. So sometimes in the Free Zones Act, there was a question of customs, a matter of VAT. In 2005, this was excluded and put into the Customs Act where there is a special chapter relating to free zones, and the VAT issue introduced in the tax law by the VAT Act concerning free zones. This year, we have returned to these amendments the part relating to VAT precisely to ensure users of free zones until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union and to further negotiations when the Republic of Croatia as a member will be able to seek exceptions precisely to protect them from it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12408	Thank you. HDSSB club Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12409	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the thing about that part of the department's professional services, I think we can praise these amendments and the additions of the Free Zone Act, and really commend them because as a result of political negotiations with the European Union and compliance with the acquis, I am sure that they have derived from the political outcome the best that they could. But I totally agree with a colleague who talked about negotiations, political negotiations, and about a free zone. Our negotiators were weak and received weak results. Which is why we did not get, for example, the status of Poland or the Czech Republic and the grace period of 7 or 9 years. In Poland, there were eighty free zones. Now there's a production of about seven or eight. Therefore, my fundamental objection is that as far as free zones are concerned, negotiators in the negotiations of compliance with the European Union's acquis here have made quite an appointment. In addition, in the material that we have before us this material is somehow full of praise for the results of the free zone or 13 free zones as many as there are in the Republic of Croatia. Let's start by saying the Free Zones Act was passed in '96. Today we have 13 zones in the Republic of Croatia. So, we're talking about employment in direct employment somewhere around 7600, investment at 2 billion kuna. But what is important here, and what is at least important to me, is that the emphasis should be made on the importance of free zones for the overall economy of the Republic of Croatia and, in particular, the effects on the even regional development of the Republic of Croatia that free zones have. Then it's said, of course they do. They have an impact especially on those regions and those in the Republic of Croatia with a low gross social product compared to the European Union. According to estimates of the current free zone user, 2000 to 3000 new jobs were planned for the next period. Now, it doesn't matter to me if there are contracts. We have heard that they do not exist with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry and those who use free zones. What's far more important, and I don't think anyone can deny it or deny it, these amendments and additions to the law are significantly changing the business of users of the free zone. It's something that's obviously a fact especially in the part of paying the profit tax. Therefore, with Croatia's accession to the European Union, users of the free zone pay VAT. But I want to point out that those who entered the free zone, that they certainly counted on a stable state, on a state, I mean Croatia, on a state where laws don't change every year or after two, three or four years. These are business entities, investors who came either from outside with their capital or within Croatia right in the free zone because of the relief, because of the convenience and such have had a business plan. Now, these changes and additions to the Free Zones Act will surely have to be changed. The word here is that it is extremely low intensities of use and tax benefits over a period of four years, and it is also confirmed by statistical data, but not everywhere. In eastern Slavonia, the free zone of Osijek is particularly active in Osijek. Six free zone founders were 11 years ago. The Osjek Free Zone has a 25-year concession contract signed with the ministry and it since '98. Been out there since June of '99. It actually works and works. She's doing business under the Free Zones Act. Therefore, the current law and concession agreements. There are so far 235 signed contracts on the performance of activities authorised by customs, i.e. the customs office of Osijek, then Osijek and this has contracts signed for the entire duration of the concession. So in 25 years. I'm not talking about contracts with the ministry or with the government. A contract signed with a free zone of Osijek. Of course, the users of the free zone signed the contracts for 25 years on the basis of their plan, based on the investment plan and of course they signed it on the basis of legal provisions under which they had the privileges and counted on to have the benefits. About 10 of those 235, about 10 users of the free zone in Osijek, and they allocated large financial resources to the free zone infrastructure and thus acquired those rights also benefiting from the foundation of investment. It is the same number as about a dozen who, by virtue of the existing law, used the right to non-payment of income tax in full, or 50% of the prescribed rate. Therefore, the current free zone function was to enable users to carry out activities under the same conditions using benefits, existing benefits of the tax and customs system, in accordance with the law. Based on data from the free zone Osijek, but also from the competent ministries in the free zone Osijek, more than 1000 people were employed, nearly 400 million kuna was invested in investment investments amounting to around 20.2% of total investments in 13 business zones in the Republic of Croatia but at the same time these 20.2% are also the largest investment in the free zone, so the free zone of Osijek, the largest investment in the Republic of Croatia. Also in the free zone of Osijek, and according to current law, users have used 67% of the benefits, total benefits, which in other words means that the free zone of Osijek has met the objectives set, of course they can be even better. That investment investments were $400 million, that more than a thousand were directly employed, and more than 3,000 indirectly in this free zone, and when we talk about exports in the free zone of Osijek, there is one of the largest exporters, the largest in Osijek-Baranja County, and otherwise the 7th exporter in the Republic of Croatia with exports of billions and 80 million kuna for 2005. In 10 years of business, founders and the free zone of Osijek have invested about 25 million kunas in the area where they work. At this point, the purchase of land is under way to finally resolve property-legal relations and enable the construction of the first production greenfield investments in Osijek. Namely, the talks and arrangements have moved far away, and finally very close to full compliance with, for example, Bio ethanol, with Arvi, but I assure you that these people have been counting on the benefits that this law has afforded so far. They did not count, and of course they would count on the Investment Encouragement Act, but they also counted on the benefits of the current Free Zones Act. I can tell you, you can say that it's the same, you can say now that they're going to have these benefits bigger, but I assure you that these people are very much counting and saying, so listen, our conditions are changing, our investments are questionable. I'm talking to you about direct talks with investors, not about budgets in the Ministry of Finance, customs administration, the Ministry of Economy, but about those you directly negotiate with whether to enter a free zone of Osijek or not under what conditions. What is happening now significantly disrupts business investment plans and raises questions as to whether these investments in Osijek, i.e. in the free zone of Osijek, will come at all. That we don't talk about the functioning of the free zone of Osijek when this law comes into force. In fact, already now that they're being resolved for the purchase of land, investment alone free zones are somewhere around 15 million kunas. The concession agreement was signed, but the contract was signed, again I return to the basis of the current Law on Free Zones where investors counted on benefits and where they were willing to pay a lot more than now that they have to work on these terms, of course if the Assembly accepts this amendment and supplement this Free Zone Act. Therefore, business relations to the free zone and users of the free zone are absolutely certain that this law will change and that the concession will be significantly lower. In particular, I would like to reiterate in the light of the parliamentary Committee on Economy, which states from this material, which states that "in the opening presentation of the representatives of the proposings, it explained the reasons for the submission of this legislative proposal, and the opinion delivered by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce was stated that the users in the existing free zones would have significantly changed the conditions in relation to the conditions under which they decided to invest and operate in free zones, which are contained in existing contracts, of course between users and free zones themselves." Therefore, the conditions in these amendments and additions to the Free Zones Act are significantly different in the so far set, especially in the part of the benefits of investors in free zones. Therefore, as it has already gone to such changes and complemented under the pressure of Brussels or because of the weaknesses of our negotiators with the negotiators of the European Union, I think that the government, or the competent ministry, should have proposed certain financial resources to be amortised, here are the very financial aspects of the more unfavourable conditions that investors will have in the free zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12410	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12411	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would like to correct Mr. Šišljagić's incorrect claim that these foreign investors, so Arvius, Bio ethanol, etc. So world trade marks, yes, that only their motivation was the existing Free Zones Act, which is not true. These are world players who are very familiar with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which was signed several years ago, so these things and Free Zones obligations have been going on since 2003 and they also know that we are joining the European Union, they know what the rules of conduct are, and I think that one of the greatest motivations has been exactly the proximity of the river port, the Law on Encouragement of Investments and Benefiences that they count on around local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12412	State Secretary Tajana Kesic Sapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12413	Thank you very much. Here, I would like to comment on the negotiators if they hadn't taken care of what it was like in other European Union countries, and how we led it. We also had the example of Lithuania, we had the example of Slovenia and the example of Poland, which of the 70 free zones left 7 and which all had to comply with the guidelines on the regional support of the European Union. Throughout the European Union, you have 24 free zones that operate under the same conditions as they will operate free zones in the Republic of Croatia because they all apply the same rules. Let's say, in Lithuania, I don't know 15 free zones left one and they made a grand scheme for one. Only for that area, and the grand scheme is made according to regional support guidelines. Thus, the negotiators, and even when this law was made, were concerned about applying the experiences of other countries, Slovenia abolished its free zones, so there is no free zone, but a customs warehouse. We can also think in the future whether we need 13 free zones in Croatia at all. We have left 13 out of all 13 with rules which are rules of conduct towards regional support and guidelines of the European Union. Whether you think about it and see if it's of strategic importance to us are, say, ports or free zone of Varazdin, and then we'll come up with some extra grant schemes for those free zones as much as possible, but the law is one thing, and the special grant scheme for certain free zones is another. So Poland received a 9-year transitional period. If you consider that in the town of Vukovar which has received our longest transitional deadline is 2017 and today is 2008, it is the same 9 years. So we've taken great care and care and compared ourselves with other countries and in negotiations, because I personally participated in negotiations precisely on this law on free zones that you believe was not easy to get this all we got. Because the explicite was said in 2003 you signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, you had time to adjust it all, today it's 2008 already. So from 2003 to 2008, it was time to comply with the rules of support for the European Union, but we have managed to get from 2008 to 2017, which I really think is an extraordinary success. As far as foreign investment is concerned, investors come to the ministry daily and I must say that the current Investment Encouragement Act, which is also in line with the European Union's regional guidelines, is very encouraging because it gives and offers a whole range of incentives to foreign investors. So that all those who invest in free zones with all the incentives that they are allowed under the Investment Encouragement Act have, of course, why free zones? You don't go into free zones just because of state support, tax breaks because you're in the zone, but because the stuff you manufacture, they make it so you don't pay customs. It's the basic essence of free zones. So customs and taxes and, of course, extras if they're stimulated with the budget reliefs so-called. State aid. So free zones are imagined as duty-free zones, so where customs are not paid. It's the basic essence of free zones. And every investor whether we can't make a difference there at all between foreign investors and domestic investors, because our domestic entrepreneurs can say at this point even stronger than some foreign investors who come to the Republic of Croatia. And why not allow them to use reliefs and support based on their investments because it is their right, and free zones are known to be free zones where reliefs are customs, where goods are produced without customs duty, means until they come out of the Republic of Croatia plus any additional reliefs that are made possible by the Law on Investment Encouragement. And all those who have the right to invest in free zones, I repeat once again, all users of free zones will have to exploit and be able to use that right from their investments. And our goal really is to get all the users of the zone and all the investors to tell them to invest, to hire new people, and that's why they're going to get support. There's no reason for someone to get support unless they're creating a new added value, unless they're hiring and they're opening new jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12414	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12415	At one point, the secretary of state claimed that free zones were imagined as through customs reliefs. Free zones are not primarily imagined, the Free Zone Act was passed in '96. years and they are precisely defined by legal provisions which, I agree, concern and customs, but also as regards VAT, they also concern profit taxes and regulate a lot of these relationships that actually make it a privilege for investors in free zones, so not exclusively customs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12416	11 and 20. It's time to report a ten-minute hearing. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12417	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I obviously, unlike most of those who have debated free zones so far, do not share enthusiasm with those free zones. From the explanation of this, intervention in the law is evident that in Croatia we have 13 free zones in which 7 thousand 620 people are employed. I, without this data, thought there were at least 50,000 people involved with several thousand entrepreneurs, and in fact there are only 350 users who employ 77 employees on average. Now there's no data, and I'd really be interested in how many countries so far are being released, which is what she's given to one employee in those free zones. How much does a job in that free zone cost compared to that job that isn't in the free zone? And perhaps the only good information is that over 50% of the users in those free zones are those who are engaged in production activity. Big shouting, frequent changes in regulations, stretching for only 7 thousand 620 jobs with this big and encouraging and release or write down certain obligations. It further explains that users in free zones have shown "extensive efficiency in the projection of gross profits per company and employee". So exceptional efficiency in projections, in the projection of gross profits, and are they so extremely effective in achieving gross profits? They're useful in the projection. In fact, I would also like to have information if they were charged with a full profit tax that they would pay if they weren't in the zone as well as VAT, would they be as effective and even in the projection itself? In addition, I am concerned about the fact that part of these users is actually a competitor to our entrepreneurs from entrepreneurial zones, because the meaning of such zones within the European Union, which, if I am not mistaken for a total of 16 throughout Europe, is 16 export zone or export zone in which products are produced for export to third countries and not for the market of the European Union, and especially not for the domestic market, because therefore, if entrepreneurs from these zones work product for the domestic market, we create unfair competition for other entrepreneurs. And in my opinion, the only future in Croatia of these or such zones must be exports, and we simply have to call them export zones, export zones. And then the promotion and then the exemption of income tax, including VAT, and especially for goods going from Croatia to the zone or from the zone in Croatia, not only in the European Union, I am particularly interested in this, so within the traffic, within the territory of the Republic of Croatia would make sense, because it would be in the function of exports. I can't bring up the data now, I haven't found them, but out of these 350 users, how many are exclusively exporters, and how many of them appear on the Croatian market with their products. And I am convinced, if they were to be charged with profit tax and VAT, in their business they would be nothing more successful than other entrepreneurs, and on the other hand, the whole community, the whole society and the state, gave up some of the rights she had to charge, supported them, so that they ended up not being export-oriented and that they were doing even more unfair competition. So let us not fool ourselves, whine and weep over their fate, because their future must be turned towards exports, otherwise there is no point, no need for free zones in Croatia to exist. And the following, and this law is proof that I was right whenever I warned that the division of Croatia into three statistical regions would have negative consequences on the economy of north-west Croatia, because this part of Croatia, together with the City of Zagreb, is located in the same region, that the data, i.e. the gross social product and all economic indicators of the City of Zagreb artificially raise and bring the data, i.e. standards published to Eurostat. And here is evidence, in Article 4 of these amendments, when it comes to initial investments, the right to limit the permitted intensity of support with a pledge prescribed by the regional support map. And it's inevitable, you know. And that's no news, no wonder. However, I remind you that this map of regional divisions has been brought and published in "National Journals" and that when we start to use this map of regional support and other support, not only free zones, but let's say that the government finally has mercy on the textile industry, it starts with certain textile support, that these support will also have to respect the map of regional support, which is at least in north-western Croatia, and 75% of the employees or textile workers are in north-west Croatia. The second proof, Article 5, which is most clear and precise, of the free zones in north-west Croatia since 2014 are in full obligation to pay the income tax. Others in other parts of Croatia, three years later. Here in the free zones, that's the difference for three years. Support in entrepreneurship, support in agriculture, a map of regional support is sacred if we respect the Support Act. And in any future support, in any other state aid, the North-West economy, together with Zagreb, will be one that will either exercise lower rights, or will fall out of the right to support, but also the use of European Union funds before the rest of Croatia. But in the structure of the economy, especially in the structure of employees, it's really not the richest region. Especially when the City of Zagreb is excluded. And it is an injustice that has been inflicted on north-west Croatia that will be paid and felt for the next twenty years. There is no will, there is no desire to be corrected, and it could only be with one decision from the State Statistics Institute, even the Government should have nothing to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12418	Thank you. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12419	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor's Secretary of State. I'm going to say a few words about free zones, no matter what my colleagues here said and said certain crosses, I'd really say that the free zones have shown certain results, and through these few words I'm going to paint it. Namely, the fundamental purpose and objective of amending and supplementing the Free Zones Act, which was adopted in '96. and in 2005, it is the harmonisation of the free zones system in the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, and in order to prepare the Republic of Croatia for full membership of the European Union. In the Republic of Croatia, as has been said so far, there are 13 free zones, 7 thousand 420 employees. Of course, we'd all be happy if it were times 2 or times 3, but I'm sure everything is really done and the companies that have hired as many people in the free zones as they need. But will he ultimately be far more people with this program, surely he will. But I'll say a few words about it in the end. The effects of business in the free zones are also visible, and at the economic regional level, they are visible that free zones have an extremely significant economic impact on overall regional development, especially in the counties of very high unemployment rates. Also, users of free zones earn a high share of revenue from production activities over 50%. Economic indicators of business, users of free zones fall within the category of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, etc. The main issues or better said from this table are also visible, that the free zone system in the Republic of Croatia, compared to the total economy of the Republic of Croatia, achieves extremely effective business results, especially in terms of projection of gross profits per entrepreneur and per employee. Also a high share of revenue from production activities, as I said earlier, is a high contribution to equal regional development, given that most of the free zones are also located in counties where high unemployment rates are. It is also essential to deal with these issues that are regulated by the Amendments to the Law on Free Zones are the following. The issue of registration of users of free zones, users of zones operating in the zone must be registered in the Republic of Croatia, the question of the activity of users of free zones, the adoption of the investment support scheme and the law, etc. It is important here that an extremely important and successfully resolved issue can be assessed as a legal solution for existing users of the area that have invested in the free zone during the past period until the entry into force of this law and use existing fiscal support. We also have the Investment Encouragement Act, provides a total of 6 types of incentive measures, tax benefits, customs benefits, support for eligible costs for the creation of new jobs related to investment, support for eligible costs of investment-related improvement. Under 5. Encouraging measures for the establishment and development of technological innovation centres and strategic business support activities. And under the 6th incentive measures for major investment projects. Investment projects of significant economic interest. Of course, I'm not going to talk about what's already said here, but I'm going to say that tax benefits are conditioned at the level of investment and the number of new jobs, so there's also a mention of investments from 300 thousand to 1.5 million kuna, from 1.5 million to 4 million, from 4 million to 8 million and over 8 million. They're related, of course, to the reduction in the profit tax rate. Well, in the smallest investment, you're freed 50%, and over 8 million you're free of 100% profit tax. When we talk about customs benefits, we can also say that when importing equipment that makes the investment, customs duties on equipment in heading 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89 are not paid until 90. The promotion of measures shall apply until the date of full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. When we talk about support for eligible costs in job creation, it is also visible here that it depends on the criteria of the type of investment, business activity and unemployment rate in the area where the investment project is realised. Given the very important fact, an extremely large disporto of registered unemployment rates in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia's counties. The support ranged from 1500 euros for a new job opening in counties with an unemployment rate below 10%, to 4500 euros in counties above 20% of unemployment. When we talk about support for eligible costs and employee training. This support, as well as support for job creation, also depends on two criteria. And this is about the type, or type of improvement, of general or particular, of the size of entrepreneurs, large or medium, or small entrepreneurs. Point 5. Encouraging measures to establish technological innovation centres and strategic business support activities. In addition to the already mentioned increase in the amount of money to create new jobs in these activities, a particularly encouraging measure is also made possible in the form of grants in the form of investment project, construction and equipment of the technological innovation centre, in such a way that the purchase of equipment belonging to the category of high-tech equipment is granted 5% of these costs but in a maximum amount of up to half a million euro gross value in kunas. We also have incentive measures for large projects, which are particularly important to highlight encouraging measures for large investment projects, projects of particular economic interest that apply to the economically weak, developed area of the Republic of Croatia, or the county in which the registered unemployment rate is over 20%. The basic criteria for achieving incentive measures under the incentive scheme for large investment projects are as follows. Construction of a new factory, an industrial plant, the launch of a new economic activity, as well as the development of new technologies, the realisation of investments in long-term assets of the promoters at a minimum of 15m euros in kuna equivalent, the creation of at least 100 new jobs. And in conclusion, in the end, we can point out a few important conclusions. The first amendment and addition of the Free Zones Act is primarily governed by the question of harmonisation of legal regulations from the area of business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this proposal amends and complements the Free Zones Act believes that it has fully completed its main mission, which is to transform the existing system of operations within free zones within the Republic of Croatia into a system of business-free zones compatible with the legal property of the European Union. Along with further development of all free zones, the preservation and recognition of free zones as a generator of economic development. So I personally support the final bill, the amendment and addition of the Free Zones Act, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12420	Thank you. It is Mr Dragan Kovacevic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12421	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, fellow MPs. Namely, as already mentioned several times in Croatia, 13 free zones operate actively in which more than 440 companies operate. The total investment in free zones so far amounts to a billion and 900 million kuna. A total of 7620 workers were employed in the free zones. Free zones, especially with existing incentive measures and tax benefits, are a great potential for Croatia. But by analyzing the situation from '96. When the first Free Zone Act has been adopted to date, the overall contribution of the employment zone and the increase in investment should be said that, in particular in certain zones, we cannot be satisfied and that these potentials are not fully exploited. The development of free zones with the necessity of adopting this Act and harmonising with European Union legislation and also the creation of a business environment of compatible zones in the European Union. So we should definitely go for a strategic reflection. Thus, to identify one strategic policy and to adopt guidelines for development. Business environment, market globalisation, market opening and new business challenges certainly could not have been covered in 1996 when the new Free Zones Act was passed. Thus, changes in the economic environment require a new approach that would primarily act on "greenfield" investments, attracting investors and new employment. Moreover, the approval of concessions for free zones for both new free zones and for the extension of existing areas should also be based on the performance criteria of the business. Therefore, the duration of the concession and concession contracts should be linked to the results of which are certainly an increase of the users of investments, levels of production, exports of goods and services, employment. Therefore, these results should be directly introduced as one of the clauses in the contract and thus should also bind its sustainability. All institutions at both national and local level, free zone administrations, cities, municipalities and so on, and so on, all other stakeholders should act in a coordinated manner and provide full institutional support to the development policy of the zone. Also, individual free zones need to go to marketing shops more strongly, so public relations, press releases, advertising, web site making, brochures, newsletters, presentation guides. It means going to one more powerful promotion of all those services that offer free zones. Free zones should also improve their business model, resolve the way in which space development is managed because most zones are now physically and spatially limited to further development. It should also be focused on the activities of more value added because the fact is that in areas over two-thirds of all users, small and medium-sized enterprises providing storage and trade services are on the domestic market. I also hold an important step in the development of the area and the adoption of this law that we are harmonising with the European Union and which also brings the support system in line with the provisions of the Investment Encouragement Act, which is also previously in line with EU legislation in the field of state, regional support. I also believe that the provision of Article 1 amending Article 4 of the existing law, which prescribes that the goods imported into the zone must be health, veterinary and phytosanitary correct and comply with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia and this means with the highest food safety standards in the European Union. I therefore support the adoption of this law. I believe he will contribute to the development of the zone. That it will also make our zones compatible by way of a business and support system such as those in the European Union and will also respond to new market requirements. It means ensuring as much greenfield investment as possible, attracting as many foreign investors as possible and thus creating better conditions for new employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12422	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12423	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And I would like to continue here in fact in that part of my presentation on behalf of the club and repeat once again the opinion and the Committee on Legislatives, but for which I think a lot of businessmen and especially investors in the free zone share, which is that these amendments and additions of the law on free zones will, of course, take effect in the adoption of this law in the Croatian Parliament that it brings substantially modified conditions in relation to the conditions under which investors have decided to invest and operate in the free zones. How does that apply to the free zone itself as a legal person? I'm going to talk specifically about the free zone of Osijek. I think let me maybe not, perhaps immodest but the free zone of Osijek is according to indicators one of the best, most successful free zones in the Republic of Croatia. So this law will reflect on the free zone of Osijek. In any case, there will certainly be a significant drop in income. And precisely because of the significantly smaller income, I think this law is if we had to agree to and accept such conditions and such solutions as these amendments and amendments to the laws proposed, that aid should have been provided for zones that would not be able to repay the loans they had raised. Shortly before in the debates we heard, and my predecessor also said that free zones under these new conditions must pay attention to marketing. They must pay attention to the explanation of what this free zone offers under these amended conditions under the basis of legal provisions or these amendments and additions. Let's not talk about the fact that they're space-stricken. Thus, the free zone as a legal person or its founders must from somewhere obtain more land. They need to invest in that land to secure a place where some investor will regardless of whether domestic or foreign ones come and build some kind of facility. Not only that, they must also provide municipal infrastructure. Who's gonna pay for all this? Founders, free zone? What money? I repeat, the free zone of Osijek, and you deny me, is one of the most successful free zones with income from last year's 4 million kunas. I assure you that the free zone of Osijek as a legal person does not have the possibility of further credit debt. The free zone of Osijek together and with the help of the founders has provided significant land. It's a little bit more now. The free zone of Osijek in the next period must provide land for the land to be visited by investors. That land must be bought. By how? It's the only credit line. And what business? Income of the free zone, the monthly income of the free zone Osijek is 350 thousand kuna for current business and for loans. I'm talking about loans raised in time for the purchase of land, for the municipal infrastructure, so if you want those legal provisions that required that the area of the free zone be fenced, to ensure lighting, etc. So, these loans the free zone of Osijek is returning today. Current business and these loans stop at 330,000 kuna. Only 20,000 kunas remain monthly in the best conditions. Can more credit be raised with that money? Well, he can't. So it can't spread spatially, it can't go into building municipal infrastructure under such conditions in the free zone area. Not to say that a free zone must pay all those fees, starting with electricity, water, gas, communal compensation. It's all invested by a legal person in a free zone. And another aspect of what I was talking about is the removal of VAT. Therefore, the abolition of VAT which has so far been not paid under the Law on Free Zones and Tax Law. The proposed text states that VAT will not continue to be paid until the time of entry into the European Union. However, by the time I enter the European Union, I want to believe that there are two years left. So for two years, the investment cycle is such that serious, large investors in the two years until Croatia enters the European Union will not have in the business of the free zone to follow and after the investment cycle. This does not constitute any special concession unless this law, i.e. the amendment and the amendment, is a proposal made under the impression of a referendum held in Ireland, so that Croatia will eventually enter the European Union, and this VAT on the free zone will come to life much later. So in this short time when we're talking about VAT until we enter the European Union as long as we get rid of paperwork and build a factory that's exactly this time. Therefore, why would anyone even count on a VAT advantage in a business sense when, at the time when the factory in the free zone as a production plant functions, the VAT as an advantage in the free zone will be abolished anyway. And when we rule out customs privileges in the free zone, I now wonder why the free zone is after 2016 or 17, by which the free zone differs from the business zone in other parts when we rule out customs privileges. That's probably what the ministry's representatives are going to answer me. And final. With these amendments and additions to the law, I am also asking the promoters to take into account all these facts that I have stated that the free zone of Osijek will be brought into a rather difficult position. I am only talking about the free zone Osijek given the results of its business so far, given the investment of the 400 million kuna free zone so far, given the over 1000 employees in the free zone of Osijek, given the revenue of the 4 million kuna business, but which is insufficient for further spatial expansion and further investment in municipal infrastructure, and that these and such changes and additions of the Free Zone Act will have a significant impact on the business of the free zone. And certainly in one of the exhibitions, I ask the representatives of the ministry to explain what free zones will be, if we exclude customs privileges from other economic, or business areas in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, because it seems to me that the Investment Encouragement Act applies to all business and free zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12424	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12425	Mr. President, I will not correct any incorrect allegations, or anything related to the free zone of Osijek whose development I absolutely support as well as Mr. Šišljagić, but only in the part where you have called for changed operating conditions and their impact on new concession contracts, development of the zone, etc., where you have said you are calling for the opinion of the Committee on the Economy. So I am obliged to say that it is not the opinion of the Committee on Economy, but rather the opinion of the Free Zones Group within the Chamber of Commerce which was used during the debate on this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act. So it is the opinion of the group that we used in the debate, and that is not the opinion of the Committee on the Economy, because during that debate, the applicant questioned it, denied it and explained it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12426	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12427	This Regulation shall enter No incorrect quote has been corrected. In this presentation, I have not mentioned at any time the Committee on the Economy. You, Mr. Kovacevic, are one hour late. I mentioned the Committee on Economy when I was exhibiting on behalf of the HDSSB Club. But when we talk about the changed terms of business, that's what I said. Yes, it is also the position of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12428	Finally, five minutes, Mr. Šišljagic. Are you gonna talk or what? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12429	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll be very brief. I would ask that the fact be respected and reconsidered how this will affect, I believe not only on the free zone of Osijek, because it will certainly affect these amendments and additions to the Free Zones Act. I believe in other successful free zone in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I have already mentioned that it would be good for the competent ministry to take account of the financial negative consequences of this law on free zones, as well as the free zone of Osijek, and to provide financial resources for the co-financing of these financial negative consequences which these amendments and additions of this law will certainly have on free zones in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12430	Thank you. And in conclusion, on behalf of the promoter, Ms Tajana Kesic Sapic, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12431	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you for your debate and for your contribution to the amendments to this law. I am sorry at this time that the distinguished parliamentary representative Šišljagić spoke from the point of view of the concessionaries, not from the aspect of the users of the free zone. I believe that the concessionary is a free zone Osijek in one and the user of the free zone so it uses all those reliefs used by the users of the free zone which are production export companies that use relief, therefore customs, tax and all the other ones. Of course, the Ministry of Economy will continue to take care because I am also coming, I was here before I came to the director of a free zone in Bjelovar and also when we asked for a concession for a free zone we also got from the state land for a free zone, and we also got the resources to build infrastructure in the free zone so that I believe and I am sure that this was the case in Osijek, and in the future, as well, Mr Kovacevic pointed out that a strategy for further development of free zones should be made, that is exactly what the ministry has also started to do. So, a further strategy for the development of free zones in which the concessionaries will be taken into account, so for further expansion of free zones, means for all those new investors who want to come to a free zone where the same state as it is now doing for entrepreneurial zones will assign land to local self-government units, i.e. in this particular case, the founder of a free zone, and we also have a tender that can be used by any free zone as well as an entrepreneurial zone to report for the construction of infrastructure. I thank you all once again, and I hope you will support this law, and as I have already said in my introduction, we support the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12432	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, they'll decide once the conditions are met. We move to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act, was an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 111. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Law and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government's amendments have become, in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure shall be an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. The representative of the applicant in the debate accepted the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. I am therefore voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Free Zones Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was passed by a majority of votes, 98 votes for, 12 abstentions and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12434	We continue to work even though there are not many MPs, but they will join us when they see that we have continued to work. Third item of the agenda - Final draft law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 85 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Lawmaking, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, does the draft representative wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Stjepan Adanic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12435	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. There's a law in front of us, a bill on maternity and parental support. This is one of the essential laws that is in line with the European Union's standards and I think that this law should all read well and ultimately support it well and quality. The proposal for a law was made on the basis of a national and population policy in the area of the family support system and of the relevant European Union regulations referred to in Chapter 19. Social policy and employment and chapters 2 - Freedom of movement of workers and coordination of social security systems. By respecting the provisions of national population policy, this bill covers all mothers or parents regardless of the working legal position. The proposal for a law sets out exactly the rights of individual social groups of users, depending on their working legal position. As users of the rights are listed, this is very important to say, employees and only employed parents or employees under the Labour Act, craftsmen, self-employed persons, farmers in the VAT system and others. Parents who make second income, it is an act contract, other contracts on the basis of which a compulsory contribution has been made, a farmer's parent outside the VAT system and is found in pension insurance records, an unemployed parent under employment regulations, persons outside the work system, those are pupils, students, pensioners, persons unable to work under social care regulations, housewives. For those users, the appropriate support that is new in Croatian legislation is also prescribed when it comes to the protection of motherhood and parenting. This enables an employee and self-employed parent: 1. Use of the right to maternity leave until the 6th month of a child's life by both parents, the novelty is if maternity leave is used as a part-time job and it can be used over the 6th month of a child's life. The novelty is that the right to parental leave for 6 months for both the first and second children and 30 months for birth twins, third and next children are used flexiblely as part-time work, in meals of at least 30 days at a time both parents or alternating, and everything the parents and children need to do until their 8th year of life. Now it can only be used for up to 12 months or up to the 3rd year of a child's life and for an uninterrupted duration. The news is that part - time work due to the child’s increased care up to the age of 3 can now be used by self - employed parents. So far, it's just been an employee under the Labour Act. The news is also that the right to additional work in part-time to care and care for children with severe developmental disturbances up to the 7th year of a child's life is now extended by one year or 8 years of child's life, and will also be used by a self-employed parent. In addition, since 1 January of this year, all births for the first 6 months of maternity leave, as you know, have the right to pay 100% of the basic salary, is the novelty that this new law suggests that the remuneration for the first 6 months of parental leave is up to 80% of the budget base. It should be emphasized that the right to maternity and parental support will be given to parents who earn other income, this is an agreement on work, etc., an unemployed parent and parent farmer, which is very important for the emphasis. The right to maternity and parental support will also be granted by all other mothers outside of the labour system, in the form of the right to maternity care for the child and the right to parental care for the child with a financial compensation of 50% of the budget base. Parental leave and parental care for the child may be interrupted by employment or self-employment with the right to re-use in the event of termination of work and, in the case of employment or self-employment for more than 9 months, this right continues to be applied under conditions of employment and self-employed parenting All these rights may be transferred to other parents under conditions of employment or self-employment. As you can see, there's a lot of news. Another new one. The news is that so far, from now on, all adoptors are fully equalized with the right to foster leave or foster leave from work, foster care for the child, and have all rights as parents along with equal, social working groups. For the implementation of this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is for 2009, so this law would enter into force 1. 1. In 2009 provided 2 billion 18 million 735 thousand and 320 kuna, of which for the purposes of implementing this law... The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity 922 million 49 000 840 kuna which requires the addition of 178 million 185 thousand and 480 kuna from the title of the transition of parents' right to leave or work in the shortened working time of a child with severe developmental disturbances from the Ministry of Health and Social Protection and care in the section of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and 918 million and 500 thousand kuna in the division of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As you can see, respected parliamentary deputies and MPs, these are extremely large funds that are intended to mean the realisation of this law in the following year. It should be pointed out that this bill has achieved full equality between mother and father on responsibility for child care and child rearing, a number of restrictions have been removed and many benefits are introduced for unemployed parents who occasionally work, without losing the right to parental leave from work and the right to cash compensation. For unemployed parents, this also means benefits from the Croatian Employment Service for the reason that during maternity and parental care the unemployed parent rests on unemployment rights. The bill also proposes a number of other solutions that contribute to the protection of parents during care and care for the child, all in order to bring labour and family obligations into line, incentives for employment and maintenance. It is necessary to point out that by adopting this law, instead of the current four laws, it is necessary to list them, that is, the Labour Act, the Law on maternity permits and the fees of mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers, the Law on compulsory health insurance and the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia and several regulations. The issue of maternity or parental leave and compensation will only be governed by this law, which will contribute to the unification of the rights of all mothers, or parents with the basis of birth and care for a newborn child. Furthermore, this law respects the general objectives of national population policy, as well as the objectives of family support systems related to time leave and social security. The law also promotes the balanced presence of both parents, equality between women and men on the labour market. A policy that encourages women and men as a mother and father to produce offspring with adequate compensation for the demands of family life and work, especially women as pregnant women and birth, for the sake of eased labour market survival. The involvement of fathers in family life, which is very important because the Republic of Croatia today has only 1% of the involvement of fathers in these maternity and parental leave, this bill should also increase. Furthermore, responsible parenting and child welfare are promoted, and ultimately the economic independence of women. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12436	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're crossing. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate first. The first is representative Maria Petir on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12437	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. Surely this Law on maternity and parental support is one of the laws that contributes significantly and implements population policy in the Republic of Croatia. And that this is a key issue today, and that it must become a key political issue, speak and data that are being read and demographed, and they are using scientific methods and these scientific methods have come up with data that, at the current rate of demographic movement in 2100, Croatia will at best have 3.6 million inhabitants, and in the worst case, only 1.3 million, i.e. that already in 2031, there will be 17.1% of the population in Croatia less than in 2001. In addition to the alarming number of reductions in Croatian citizens, Croatia is also facing a difficult problem which will significantly increase the number of older people to be held back and will reduce the number of young people who should bear the burden of restraint. These dreary perspectives are, of course, expressed by qualified experts without any intention of manipulation or politics, and we consider them objective, realistic and worrying in the HSS Club. So these are actually fate issues when we talk about the fate of Croatia, the Croatian people, the Croatian nation because there is no greater Croatian national interest than maintaining the life of the nation itself. It is clear that Croatia is facing a number of difficult problems and deep crises in its young and recent history and that it is not possible to solve all problems overnight. However, as was the issue of defence for the country's future of Croatia and the Croatian people, so the issue of getting out of the deep demographic crisis is crucial for Croatia's future. It seems that the struggle to sustain the very lives of the nation and its future may be even more demanding and difficult at some point than fighting to defend against aggression because in this struggle it was clear who was the opponent and who was the ally and in the population and demographic struggle, it is often impossible to understand who was on which side. Croatia should therefore become from the country of consumption of the country of production, from a country that imports enormously, a country that exports more than imports, from a country that regulates the issues of Western morally corrosive societies should become a country that addresses the real issues of the Croatian anxiety crowd. If there is no systematic shift to allow for profitable production and fair buy-in and fair collection of all produced in Croatian and rural areas, if the powerful networked lobbys working for their interests actually work against Croatian national interests, the fight to maintain the life of the nation itself and its future will not stand a chance. It is therefore important to remember also the letters of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where the Republic of Croatia has defined itself as a special protection for the motherhood of children and young people, as well as the creation of social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life, and special attention is given to the protection of mothers at work. It is certain that such a concept also makes a significant contribution to the new Law on Family and Parent Support and will therefore be supported by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party. We think it is good that this law, therefore in one place, solves a complete problem, because so far it has been resolved by the Labour Act, the Law on maternity leave of mothers who carry out their own activities, of course national population policy adopted in 2006, the Law on Child Payment, the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2007 and the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance. The unique law, therefore, will ensure the right to maternity benefits for all mothers who do not exercise the right to be employed mothers of at least 50% of the budget base, the possibility of more flexible use of additional maternity leave for employed parents up to 8 years of child's life, and the right or possibility of including a greater number of fathers in this family support system. The data show that the dominant way of providing support to parents with newborn children in Croatia is from time leave, and that the first shifts towards financial empowerment are taken by adopting national population policy and by adopting amendments to the relevant laws. However, current time permits, despite the possibility of passing from mother to father, but at the end of mandatory maternity leave, are very static and time-limited with regard to the age limit of the child to which they can be used. For example, inability within the current period to be granted maternity leave, to suspend the right to use for employment or to work for a specified period and to re-establish the application of that right. This is more pronounced in unemployed workers, or mothers who, in the event of temporary employment, not only lose the right to continue to apply the right to maternity leave within the period to which they can use, net losses and employment rights under employment rules. It is therefore concluded that the current rules on labour, intermediation and employment and on birth leave rights are in fact incentivising work passivisation and it is necessary to change that. Furthermore, as regards the rights of employees and self-employed parents, there is an inequality of conduct, among other things, in view of the fact that the Labour Act allows for the extension of the right to additional maternity leave until the first year of the child's life, up to 14 months of the child's life provided that the child's father used that leave for at least 3 months, but the fathers whose mothers carry out their own activities do not have that legal option. Also, the laws do not prescribe the same rights of parents who carry out their own activities in cases where a child has severe developmental disturbances, which, unlike parents in employment, cannot use the right to leave for child care, i.e. shortened working hours until the 7th year of a child's life. Under this proposal, mandatory maternity leave will continue until the child's 6th month in the future, but a father will be able to benefit after 42 days. After 6 months, parents will be entitled to parental leave that should be used in the same time, unless otherwise stated. Parent leave of 6 months for the first or second child, or 30 months for twins, third and next child, parents will be able to use immediately, but at any time until the child is 8 years old. The news is also that parental leave does not have to be used in a piece, but cocoa and when parents respond most. For the first 6 months of the child's age, the working mothers will receive full pay compensation, while the other 6 months will be 80% of the budget base. The law also allows employed or self-employed parents to work with half full-time workers, to work part-time due to increased child care, rest for breast-feeding, leave a pregnant woman or a mother breast-feeding a child, leave or work in a part-time job and care for a child with severe developmental disorders, and rest in the employment relationship to a child in the third year. This bill also extends the number of users of the right, and in one part of this right will be extended in respect of material compensations, resulting from the acquisition of beneficiaries of cash compensation during the use of leave or work in the short term for the care of a child with severe difficulties in developing and social care systems with a family support system. Also, there will be an increase in the number of users because it will open up the assumption of obtaining the right to foster leave for those who did not have it, so persons who earn other income, self-employed persons, farmers, unemployed and those outside the work system. For this implementation of the law, it is necessary to provide 2% of the state budget, which is not some big amount of money, so it is the funds both the secretary of state and we in the HSS club certainly support the decision to secure these funds in the 2009 budget. Also, at the HSS Club, we spoke with representatives of the Association of Genders, parents in action, and we must therefore point out that there are doubts about the text of some articles in this law, so we would ask the Secretary of State to explain these articles to us. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. These articles define that parental leave is used by both parents as a rule in the same part, but by written means, so one of the parents can give up that right, and that if the father does not give up that right, and use the 3 months of parental leave, then parental leave is extended by 2 months. Our view is that there are perhaps a slightly clumsy way of combining two provisions here, and this is the one relating to the EU's 3-month reservation directive for mother and father, and what concerns the Work Act on an extension of 2 months, so I would ask you to explain exactly what this is about. In addition, Article 24(2) and (3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: So, since we have seen from the very preamble of the law, and from the text of the law that the aim is to encourage fathers to become more involved in parental leave. We believe that the amount of compensation at the time at which it is most likely that the fathers will be involved, which is certainly several months at the end of the leave, must not be dimming. On average, fathers have higher salaries and more families depend financially on their salary, so the reduction of their father's incomes is a major blow to the entire family budget. If fathers use parental leave for the first or second child, the most common case is that they use the same period of 13 and 14 months. These articles define that an employee parent or self-employed parent is entitled to a maximum amount of 80% of the budget base during the period of application of parental leave rights. 2 thousand 660 kuna for 6 months, starting on the first day of law enforcement. After that they have the right to a maximum of 50% or a thousand 663 kuna. If this item is to be interpreted as belonging to a single mother and father, then we consider it to be okay, but the law itself does not make it clear, so I ask the clarification. The fathers involved at the end of parental leave will have the same amount of compensation as the mother in the months before. But if the interpretation will be that the charge of a maximum amount of 2 thousand 660 kuna is limited by 6 months of use for one child either from the mother or from the father then it will be dimming for the fathers as I did just before. This amount is a minimum that can be talked about encouraging fathers to engage in parental leave. In that case, they would certainly suggest that the period up to which parents receive 2 thousand 660 kuna should be 8 months of parental leave. In addition to these two actually, the remarks that seem to be crucial to us because it is not quite clear whether or not what I have pointed out is meant to be possible to say that the Club of Representatives of the HSS will support the Law on Birth and Parent Support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12438	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Susana Bilić-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12439	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Birth and Parent Support with the final draft law, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption. Here is a chance or not to discuss maternity and parental support in the days when the enrolment of pupils or graduates is in the first grade of high school. You had all of us together or we all had the opportunity to read the media announcements that in schools more than 10,000 places are waiting than this generation of 14-year-olds and 15-year-olds who finished eighth grade of primary school this year and now enrolls in first grade high school. To remind them, they were born in 1994 or 1993. The years were in which 46 thousand 106 children were born in Croatia in 1993 and 45 thousand 426 1994, respectively. According to the last available data from 2006 in Croatia, 41 thousand 426 children were born. Similar data speak about enrolment of students in the first grade of primary schools and are under... whether around 3000 founders will be less enrolled in the first grade of primary school this year compared to last year's less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the last census from 2001 in the Republic of Croatia, 4000 437 thousand 460 inhabitants are listed. The assessment according to the statistical data provided by the National Statistics Institute dated 31 December 2006, Croatia has 4000 441, 1 thousand, 4 million 441 thousand and 200 inhabitants from 0 to 19 years 971 thousand and over 65 years 759 thousand 600 inhabitants. The average age of women colleagues and colleagues in 2001 was 41 years and men 37.5 years. The data I came up with for 2006 estimated the average age of women is 42 years and men 38.8 years. The average age of the mother at first birth in 2006 is 26.7 years. I think I'm with this, that this data that I've presented is a good introduction to the topic that we're discussing here today, and I'm not going to say anything new if I point out that the issue of stopping a negative demographic trend, the negative growth of the population in a situation where somewhere in the 90s is constantly dying, is dying more annually than what we are born to be politically but then a national issue that requires and is desirable for all parties in this House to reach a consensus the same way as when they adopted a national programme of demographic development in Croatia 12 years ago, which lays the foundations of a new family policy. We in the Croatian Democratic Community are pleased to highlight the continuity and consistency of our party's policies and responsible, credible and consistent policy of the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader in the care and implementation of the measures of the innovative policy and the particular protection of the families and motherhood of children and youth established... provisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We regret that in 2001, we failed to prevent the abolition of acquired rights of mothers who were with twins, third and next children where their maternity leave was lifted, birth leave actually reduced from three years to two years. We regret that the Croatian Democratic Community also pointed to the consequences that will result from this, and colleagues and colleagues, if we look at exactly what happened from 2000 to 2000 sometime in 2004, the fall of children I am sure of and not only of birth benefits is not only affected by money. Other factors are important, but we send a bad message from here whenever we reduce rights to, from this area. The argument of consistency is when we talk about the policy of the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader is also the establishment of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity in 2004, the return of dominated rights, the raising of maternity benefits, the adoption of family law, the adoption of national population policy in 2006 as well as the implementation of... the measures set out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To make only some, not so much, but those realised and whose achievement is under way. Free textbooks for all the basics of last year also apply to students from first grade high school, free transportation for high school students, new pedagogical standards for pre-school education and education, primary and secondary education, increased amount of child's allowance, introduced a promising allowance for the third and fourth child in the family, the partial maternity benefits for mothers employed since 1.1.2008, increased single aid for the child's equipment. The Law on maternity and parental support has a foothold in the national population policy and this chapter of family support and in the chapter of the harmonisation of family and business life. In addition, this law aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union on which it is also accompanied by a declaration of compliance with the acquis of the European Union and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. The proposal for this law makes citizens and Member States of the European Economic Area equal to Croatian citizens in the rights and duties laid down in this law. Family support is normally a priority objective of empowering families in raising children from maternity leave to working with reduced working hours to care for children, monthly cash benefits to single aid. The objectives defined in the national population policy were to remind the improvement and expansion of the family support system, to ensure qualitative changes in the financial organisation of family life, to redefine the role and importance of the current family support system, to enable the availability of services to all families to the same extent, to enable parents to make a free choice in the way they use parental leave and thus create assumptions for quality family life and quality parenting. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that this bill will achieve the quality of the objectives set out through 11 measures adopted by the population policy in the chapter – the Family Support System. This bill regulates the issues of maternity and parental support for parents and self-employed workers, which has so far been established in four separate laws. Well, we heard, so the proposer said so and a colleague on behalf of the HSS Club. Therefore, it is the Labour Act, the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, the Law on maternity leave for mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers, and the Law on the implementation of the State budget for the calendar year in which the appropriations are spent. Thus, in one place this law contributes to the unification of the rights of all mothers, or parents with the basis of birth and the care of a newborn child. The bill covers all mothers, i.e. parents, regardless of the legal position, and as beneficiaries of the rights established by employees and self-employed parents, parents who earn other income, farmer, parent outside the VAT system, and is found in the register of pension insurance, unemployed parent according to employment regulations, as well as persons outside the labour system, pupils, students, pensioners, persons unable to work under social care regulations, housewives. When we talk about mothers, or parents within the meaning of this law, it is important to point out that this bill has brought about the full equality of mother and father in responsibility for the care and care of the child. This enables an employee and self-employed parent to apply the right to maternity leave until the sixth month of a child’s life by both parents. We only heard the first 42 days after birth belong only to the mother, or only to the mother. And equally important, it is a balanced presence of both parents and fathers on the labour market that contributes in a certain way and to the economic independence of women. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports and welcomes all the newspapers and benefits that the Bill on Birth and Parent Support brings to the users, which the Proposer made in his opening address. Well, here's just the accent. We welcome the possibility that if maternity leave is used as part-time work then it can be used over the sixth month of a child's life, because it will allow many highly-educated, highly educated women to remain on their own in the course of their work, so in the profession with the care of the child to build a career and make progress in the profession that has been impossible in the laws so far. She had to choose, but I stress her, she always did, the woman always had the right choice. We also highlight the welcome possibility of flexible use of parental leave rights for the first and second children, and 30 months for the twins, third and next children, and all, if necessary, parents and children until their eighth year of life, whether they use it as part-time work in meals of at least 30 days, both parents or alternating option, so it is up to parents to choose. With this bill of law and self-employed parents can use part-time work due to increased child care until his third year of life, as this right so far has been valid only for employees under the provisions of the Labour Act. We particularly support the extension of the right to leave or work in part-time for the care and care of a child with severe disturbances in development until the eighth year of life, because so far it has been up to the seventh year, which will be used by self-employed parents with a salary of 65% of the budget base. I think we heard it's 2161.90 kuna. The paper suggests that the remuneration during the first 6 months of parental leave is up to 80% of the budget base or 2661 kuna. I welcome the introduction of many benefits for unemployed parents who occasionally work because they have so far lost one of these rights. They are now allowed to rest their rights on the basis of unemployment at the Croatian Employment Service during the use of maternity and parental care. We welcome the equalization of all adoptors with the right to foster leave or foster leave from work, adoption care for the child, because according to this proposal, the law has the right to be parents of the same social working group. And when we are about to adopt, we cannot be completely satisfied with the data presented in the analysis of the situation to create an annual data for 2007 in Croatia, design or achieve 121 adoption, because this is an area in which much more could and should be done in relation to the number of interested adopters and the number of children located in children's homes without adequate parental care. What we welcome is the inclusion of local communities, their support for the implementation of this law, because it can and should contribute to a better overall demographic picture of Croatia, and children, mothers and families will not only care about the state, but also the unit of local and regional self-government in whose areas they live. We welcome all the efforts that have been made by individual units of local self-government and regional government and so far have been achieved on this plan and we encourage and invite everyone else to engage actively. The law encourages and opens up the possibility for units of local and regional self-government to increase rights under this law, for example, child allowances beyond what is stated in the law. And what needs to be pointed out for the supervision of the implementation of this law is determined by the ministry responsible for the family and for the implementation of this law by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. In particular, we point out the importance of establishing a monitoring committee for the implementation of the law as set out in Article 53 of the Law proposal, which is 7 members. Two representatives of the Resort Ministry of the Family, one of which is the chairman, and one representative of the Ministry of Labour of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, the Croatian Employers' Association and the coordination of trade union centres. This law shall enter into force on 1 January 2009, with the exception of Article 9, which shall enter into force on the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and I believe that there is sufficient time for quality preparation of its implementation as well as in the public and to be interested, so that users of these rights are informed of the way it is implemented in time. And to conclude, I apologize. I'm sure, colleagues and colleagues, that we're all here aware that there are no and there can be no major shifts, but that here we should be patient and persistent. From this meeting today there is no...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12440	Bring the end!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12441	... we send a positive message to all parents as well as to future mothers and fathers through the proposal of this law of the Croatian Government and we in the Croatian Parliament in order to further empower the family in Croatian society and to contribute to the creation of a positive atmosphere towards family, marriage and children.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12442	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, colleague speaking for the club, colleague Susana Bilić Vardić and I understand that she said so, but it is incorrect what she claimed. Namely, says a colleague, here is this bill that shows the success and consistency of Dr. Ivo Sanader's policy. I wouldn't, but success, success policy isn't, Madam MPs, because you yourself have determined how many of us are born, but you haven't determined how many die every year. Namely, here goes the fifth year of your consecutive authority and Croatians, i.e. Croatian citizens from year to year, less and less, the only voters we have every year are more and more. Fifty thousand, 41, 2,000 are born, and 50,000 die from Croatian citizens, each year a small town dies. You refused, on several occasions, the SDP law proposal asking for the abolition of VAT on children's supplies, and this would be a real help. And secondly, you said that this bill also establishes equality, but equality between a man and a woman, i.e. A parent is affected by the words of Article 12, which states that a woman, even when she is not breastfeeding, must go on maternity leave, and a man cannot, or should not, do so. Therefore, there is already one inequality, except when it comes to certain women, for example, from, if they are government officials, so that they do not even have to comply with this provision of Article 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12444	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12445	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us a proposal for a law on maternity and parental support designed as one of the important instruments of national population policy implementation. Certainly not the only one, nor can one law cover all those measures that can and should be led by a serious pro-active national population policy. One of the problems facing almost all European countries is the ageing population. The ageing population, which raises a serious question, who in 10, 15 or 20 years will create a new value from which the funds for social, or generational solidarity will be alimony? Recently, the World Bank has conducted a very interesting research and the results of this research can be found in our Assembly library called "From Order to Grey", so from red to gray, it has actually shown the general demographic problems of the European continent, but also countries individually. One of the authors of this research known European demographic Mukesh Chavla recently said that age is not and should not be a problem but a blessing. That is exactly what I want to convey here as a message, so age for man and society cannot and must not be a problem but a blessing. Many are the reasons that affect the ageing of the population. I would only mention here those who affect the extension of man's life, first of all it is about awareness of the challenges and difficulties of the third age so that those who enter it and those who are in it will be able to bear, change lifestyles and live healthier. But that also means raising awareness of all risks to all other population groups, or demographic groups. A very important reason is also the progress of medicine, all that seems to be in medicine and pharmacies to prevent, prevent or treat diseases well, especially those affecting third - age people. Average, so age grows from year to year. That's more than good. However, the demographic problems of all countries, including Croatia, since Croatia is one of the transition countries and with certain specificities, lies in fact in the fact that there are fewer and fewer newborn children. So, less and less children are born because parents at the highest and strongest age... they delay making marriages, giving birth to children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, as a colleague just said, the average age of a woman who is giving birth to the first child has already exceeded 26 years, and if we knew the data for the second child, it would be even more devastating. Of course, we need to look into the truth in the eyes and see that all these are the consequences of some trends and phenomena in society from those that are desirable and that we create ourselves as our advocate for a knowledge society, or for the concept of lifelong learning, or for increasing the number of those who finish colleges, have higher and higher education. This naturally delays in many cases the moment of marriage and family creation, but it is also an increasing socioeconomic dependence on parents. Once upon a time, this addiction was located somewhere within the age, border of 20, 21 years, sometimes less than 18. Today she's slowly climbing for 30 years. Based on his own family, it's too late in the lineup. This automatically reduces the period in which families have children. There is, of course, a question of commitment to careers, a question of focus on work out of fear of losing this job or of finding ourselves in a situation where we have to deal with younger, more successful, more educated with fear of falling out of that race. So these are all real facts, a real state to face. Demographers usually say that a solution to the problem can be sought in two areas. The first is importing labour. Filling in your own demographic white spots by opening the border. The second approach is much more demanding, more responsible and expensive, and this is an active, responsible policy. Which is just waiting for us when, by entering the European Union, given the principle of freedom of movement of labour and a number of people from Croatia go to other countries. There's already a phenomenon called postponed tomorrow in Western European countries that happen to immigrants who have come to temporarily be and do a certain job with a view to returning to their own countries relatively quickly in a year, two, five or six. That phenomenon that was delayed tomorrow actually occurred on that wing next year I'll be back and so every year. They return when they are no longer in such strength and age that they can have families that will provide extended reproduction. Furthermore, more and more youths die in accidents. Every young life lost is a lost family, new children are lost. Young people are dying more and more than risky lifestyles especially because of drugs and the problem is what does it seem to me that no one is thinking about reducing these risks? How to reduce that number of prematurely lost lives? I repeat, who will create a new value in 20 or 30 years? Who's gonna feed us when we're old? It is important and serious to implement a proactive national population policy, and in this sense we also see an attempt to bring together all those efforts in the current rules and advances for a degree more in the rule of law. So as an important instrument for the implementation of this policy. However, it is good and I will say this, it is good that the promoter has also implemented those proposals of independent Croatian trade unions that you have received probably all and installed several very important provisions and in this final proposal found on our table. However, the fact is that there is still a whole series of doubtful solutions or vague solutions in this bill that should either be amended or otherwise explained, to define how parents, adoptors and guardians could be equally concerned and nursed by a child at the most important age. In this regard, we also welcome the efforts of colleague Opačić, who has attached the amendments. However, it should be said that such a law that speaks of maternity benefits and about the different treatment of parents taking maternity leave should be spoken in harmony with all other measures. If we don't do it, we turn out to be hypocrites. Which means putting this effort into raising standards of maternity or parental benefits and, on the other hand, abolishing courts, abolishing district schools, abolishing public urban transport lines in rural areas, abolishing health institutions. What quality of life do we give exactly where the largest demographic white spots in Croatia are? I'll tell you in my mother's hometown, my colleague Matkovic knows it well because there's a mayor there, 20 years ago three days of bus lines were passing. Today, these people have to walk three kilometers to get to the bus line and drive only once a day. It's not a unique case. There's a lot of cases like that. But the question arises, what do we do in these areas, by law, but also by other measures, we ensure demographic renewal, the arrival of young people, the stay of young people. Hiring, hiring them, using local natural, agricultural, economic resources. Making life out there. What happened after the Homeland War? Didn't we promise great privileges to young people who, as experts, would go to those zones, work as doctors, work as teachers, work in public service. After a few years we've left them hanging, they don't have that privilege anymore. Today their lives are getting worse and worse and should have been the other way around. What concerns is the decline in the number of adopted adoptions we have seen in this analysis. At 150 in a few years, we're going down to 120. And the total number of children awaiting adoption has not been reduced. The total number of interested in adoptions has not decreased. So didn't the Croatian Parliament at the initiative of some concrete parliamentary MPs in time liberalise the conditions, ask for a much more flexible adoption than it was before. Apparently there's no score. That maybe the problem isn't with the administration. There is no family that is worse than a solution in a children's home. You should do anything to make those children end up in the family, to grow up with love. And what happens to us? We are not even able to implement the existing foster system well. We've all been witnessing these days, and you've been getting your e-mail notice about what's going on in Pula, where in a foster home where there are six children, they're trying to kidnap two children and take them to a children's home. Two children are too numerous, six are not, and the law is explicit that the current found state is being maintained, the more that in this particular case a house is being built in which the whole family has to move this summer, which is in a much better condition in much better technical conditions. We take the children away from the foster parents and bring them back to the home. So what kind of politics is that? What are we ordering? So let's be aware, this law won't solve everything, it's a good step forward, but we plead to stimulate fathers, or to stimulate the number of fathers who take maternity leave, by equating the amount of their income, because it's obvious that men have much better starting salaries and if we want more men on maternity leave, it wouldn't be bad for them to establish positive discrimination on 100% established budget bases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12446	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12447	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, though few, but the small company, but the chosen one, they say. This bill on maternity and parental support with the final proposal of this law is certainly a good step towards progress, but rather a shy step, because listening to advances from this left to the right and vice versa, it is not good that this is happening, because I say that both of these were shy, slow steps towards progress in relation to maternity and parental support in the Republic of Croatia, and the title above all is P.Z.E.E. You see in Europe, which has so far gone quite safely in this legislation, regardless of all the measures the law prescribes and all the benefits it prescribes, there is a population recession, one demographic decline, one trend of demographic depopulation. So, besides all the measures they've taken and regulated by law, they still have problems with these issues. And this is how I say this right-hand and right-hand transfer is not necessary, while our parishioners count far more funerals than baptisms, especially in this region of Slavonia and Baranja, and I can support this when I say this to Slavonia and Baranja, by the fact that statistics from 2007 speak of only two counties in the Republic of Croatia as a positive trend of population. It is Split-Dalmatia and Dubrovnik-Neretva County, and at a positive zero is Zadar County and at a small negative zero Istrian County. All other counties have a negative to say population or demographic trend. Before speaking about pedagogical standards, I also noted that one Republic of Kosovo has the same number of children since birth, up to the seventh year of life, as much as the Republic of Croatia, and Kosovo has only 2 million and 100 thousand inhabitants. So two times smaller countries per population, and the same number of children from zero, so to the seventh year of life. I am absolutely sure that we should well imagine and not only these laws and proposals of the law, but also a series of other measures and not only bring those four laws together in this one, but also in other areas to do something to make a good active policy of opportunity, but also to say national policy. And when I say national, then I don't say it without the devil. I am aware this day that, according to certain institutions, there are 20,000 requests for Croatian citizenship in the Republic of Croatia. Twenty thousand demands. These are people who are related to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, married or otherwise, and are seeking citizenship. With big and heavy troubles here and there, someone makes it happen, but this vast majority of 20,000 people are waiting. I do, and I know from my surroundings, closer to the surrounding example, where a young woman can't get citizenship even though she married us there in Slavonia. It's supposed to wait four years. A woman who would also make health insurance, but who certainly, given that she is at a fertilized age, most likely with her husband, then also achieved the birth of children, but she says she can't, waiting because she has no material opportunity to allow it. It is true that no one has thought to cancel and reduce the maximum VAT on children's supplies. No one mentions that about 13,000 young people in a fertilised age and with higher education or with least secondary education left Croatia. Croatia is exposed to constant demographics to say stress before 45th, especially in '45, and then by going to temporary work so-called in Western Europe, especially in western Germany during the so-called economic reform. We remember the older ones, the young ones don't. And then in '91, the second to fifth Homeland War, where we still don't know what the loss of the people is. We do not know the exact number of dead and missing in the Republic of Croatia. Such a demographic decline would be difficult to endure and much greater to say to the nations in Europe, and therefore I am taking the example of France, which in Napoleon’s wars and all other wars also had a huge decline in population and a huge decline in the number of people, i.e. the number of people of a fertilised age. And that's why France has taken action and we have here in this table that's listed on page 9 so on page 10, it's exactly how some countries have solved this same problem that we're discussing today in this bill. Seven hundred or about seven hundred young people die each year in car accidents. Yesterday, it was on the radio that about 110 people, young people, died because of drugs in the Republic of Croatia, and I'm not talking about other tragedies that are happening right now in this life, to say a fertilized age, where we really have one for our country, our size, and the number of people really one catastrophic data, and that's why of those 48000 eighth graders who entered the eighth grade a year ago, two days ago we're falling slowly to the enrollment of first class, first class, first class, about 40,000. So in a few years we have 8,000 children in the Republic of Croatia. Active intelligence and national policy will seem to run when we import I am neither racist nor xenophobic, but when we introduce what I keep saying, someone cheers especially from technical management circles a strong number of therefore fresh labour from who knows where. Well, then I guess we'll notice when we have a free flow of people and goods, then we'll apply obviously the best measures to fix this situation then. But then you should think about the consequences. And I say 20,000 people tied up in any way related, married or whatever you want are waiting in our Home Office or wherever, in the state recognition offices. Of these 20,000 people waiting for recognition of the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, there are 10,000 who are younger than 40 years old or between 20 and 40 years old. Now what do we have to conclude? Should we speed up this process, should we simplify this process? Is it possible to act somehow to simplify these measures and to facilitate the achievement of the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, in particular I say to these people who have in any way tied up with either family or other citizens of the Republic of Croatia? When it comes to the law itself, I've been saying this to say one general piece of information that bothers us, then I must say that I've been informed by people who tell me like this, to encourage in any case the most intelligent policy. But you see, there's a census that if a parent realizes that I don't say now in kunas, the mediocre salary loses the right to a child's allowance. This means that the rights to a child's allowance that really is said to be 300 kuna or exactly 298 which are the largest item in that case we wonder whether it is discrimination. It is clear that the more educated layers, the more scared-income education, therefore their children do not have the right to a child's allowance, and here in this law it is written that the child's allowance is one of the instruments that encourages this demographic restoration of the Republic of Croatia. Now, it's called a child's allowance. So one child is entitled to a child's allowance, and the other has no child's allowance. Is that even supposed to be called a child's allowance? If it's a child's allowance, then every child has a right to it. We can only talk about the height of a child's allowance or call it a different call or support for parents for children or I don't know what. Well, it's not a child's allowance if one can receive it, the other can't receive it, and the child is a child, both of them, and the one who finished college and the one who only has a primary school. It's called a child's allowance, and it's not really a child's allowance. It's actually the wrong name. It is true that this problem, as someone said, is the fate issue of the Republic of Croatia and its existence, but also the fundamental issue of politics that this House of the High, but every Government of the Republic of Croatia has to count. I think we're a little late. That's why I said that these steps that are being taken and these laws are a bit of shy progress, and since the depopulation is in demographics like saying acute infectious diseases from my medical point of view. So quickly comes to this fall as we see ourselves, as Mrs Bilić said Vardić, and recovery, demographic recovery is very, very slow and long, not to say more decadent, and no, you can't do it in half a year or a year and I don't know how. But quite certainly the decline in the number of inhabitants is and especially young very, very steep, very fast and it happens before our eyes. That's why, and when I discussed pedagogical standards before, and if it didn't matter, maybe at that point I was talking about this kid's allowance, but I was also talking about it then that, so those people who can't receive a child's allowance because of their censorship of property, right, they're going to pay a much bigger census in kindergarten for their children. So are they the penitent? Are your parents and those kids being punished for his education, for finishing college, for having a slightly higher salary? So, they're going to pay more participation in kindergarten for their child for the first, second, and they're not going to receive a child's allowance. Are we punishing our intelligence? It is true that we are trying to balance the presence of both parents with this law, but as far as I know, I may not know exactly the statistics in Croatia, but I would swear that men in most cases in marriage have a higher salary than their husbands, and now that the gentleman is taking parental leave, whether that fee will apply to his salary or to what comes next, the secretary of state will tell me, those 4 thousand or two or six, I don't know how much. So if we are already enabling and we want Father to participate in raising and raising a child, then we need to enable that father to keep his salary at the level he had working on. Well, no one's going to go on a lower salary because they're going to stay home with their baby. To be punished for it again, if that father goes on parental leave. There's a series of things I still wanted to say, but here's a light yellow. There's one more thing to say. It's here in Article 14, I have to say that an employee parent has the right to parental leave for 30 months if twins are born. Here, I'm a doa two twins and that my daughter-in-law has the right under the current law 36 months of parental leave. Now it's down to 30 months. Mr. Secretary of State, I see in this segment it's a restriction, and now he's on his way and a third child. So she was 36 months old, now she'll be 30 months old. I'm not personally, there are more twins, I'm not the one who did it with two twins, grandchildren, but there are more, thank God in the Republic of Croatia, so just to see that there was a restriction actually in that segment. Anyway, I welcome this law. There's progress, and there's good measures. It's just a small step forward, and we MPs need to fight that and in all the other segments that I've been talking about, so child's allowance, free kindergartens, fight to make it happen in order to contribute to this active national policy of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12448	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Susana Bilic Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12449	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I want to correct two incorrect allegations from my colleague Grubisic, I don't think he listened while I had the debate, but I quote what he said: "It seems to him that we are late in implementing the measures of the most innovative policy." I am responsibly saying that we are not late, or late, this government of Dr. Ivo Sanader, who, in his second term, is working hard and hard on the measures of the most innovative policy. And the other thing he said, he slowed down about the child's allowance, and the child's allowance, so is it a parent's right or is it a child's right? The extra charge for children is the monetary income used by a parent or another person designated by the Law on Child Supplement for the purpose of supporting, maintaining and raising children. Here's a colleague, that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12450	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12451	Therefore, pursuant to Article 209 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, I think Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardić misquoted what I said and completely unnecessarily stepped up, and there are some things we can do in the conversation afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12452	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12453	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I will not make any big remarks about this bill in my debate. Not only am I afraid again to complain that I have no experience with pregnancy and childbirth, as was the case with the previous law, but simply because I welcome women to be equalised, born regardless of their employment status, so employed, unemployed, those who are engaged in crafts, crafts, agriculture and what we have for the first time, women in retirement or who use other pension rights although it may seem strange to someone that women who are in retirement can also be born and use these rights, I had one case a year ago, a year and a half ago, indeed, a woman and a pension gave birth without the possibility of exercising the rights that this law provides. But I want to point out the following. This is probably in these nearly 5 years the first law where the assessment of the situation to which the bill applies is so abundantly and with such a large amount of data being displayed. This may well be because a number of useful information has been given, and it would be good for other legislators to handle this example and help us to assist the representatives in understanding matter, not only comparisons with some of the countries of the world or Europe, and monetary representations and movement of data, and so I concluded that the main motto, the aim of the promoter was to increase the birth rate. One of the mains, I'm sorry, not the main one, but one priority. However, the figures presented in this picture show what I have already stated several times in the Assembly that only these economic benefits do not affect the movement of the number of children, not only in Croatia but in all countries. In 2003, it was shown here as a general killing in terms of the birth of a minimum number of children, recorded since the country's records were kept, when 39.6, 39 thousand 6 children were born. So then in 2004, the increase to 40 thousand is 300, 2005 is 42 400 and now comes in 2006 when the fall follows. According to data on the rights or fees paid for newborn children in 2007, because the number of newborn children we have since 2006, but already in 2007 it is seen that if there is no further decline that stagnation is about 41 000 and that is proof that only material rights related to birth, birth and child support are not sufficient measures to address the serious problem that Croatia has. Not because of the sustainability of the population, but here we see and hear that some, I will not tell the officials of the government, but they are close to announcing that Croatia will have to introduce a million foreign workers in twenty years. There was no reaction on the other side of Mark’s square, so they probably agree with such announcements. Attitude. So I'd like to see here being mentioned somewhere that there's been some kind of expert council, a group, experts in nativity policy, their product of their work. What are all the elements there that we have to take in Croatia to really increase the birth rate. But by talking to young people, and I have a son and daughter at those age-ones, no one ever put the level of maternity compensation in the first place. Not even newborn equipment. Not even the height of the child's allowance. Was he 166 kuna or 199 kuna as far as he was now raised that's less important. Young people have a big problem with our apartment. Unsolveable problem apartment. It is related to territorial or territorial migration of labour in Croatia. And that's why in some areas in Croatia we have the extra labour force of certain profiles, in another deficit because we didn't stimulate, we made territorial migration possible because we don't have a housing fund for these purposes. Then they're kindergartens. Mrs. Kosor recently here in the debate on this, we have jointly concluded that the capacities of kindergartens cover only 58% of needs. A manger and kindergarten. There's plenty of places in elementary schools, but not in high school. In the total number of yes, but the wish of children for registration quotas is not possible to satisfy especially those schools that offer perspectives greater than those where there is an excess capacity compared to interest. In college, I don't even have to explain to anyone what the problems are when I get into college. He'll put aside the money. This possibility itself, apartment, mangers, kindergarten, school, college, high school, college. These are also elements that decide or influence when parents decide on the number of children and when they will have them. That is why I always insist on such an opportunity that it would be good for the government to finally propose one package of laws or measures to see them as a whole, rather than a segmental one. I'm not saying there won't be another topic in six months again in this function, but then we're in a situation where every six months we're passing one regulation and later we see that this one doesn't give the effects and the results we've been expecting, so we fix them and we often change the rules and it collects and increases state administration and administration. Any changes to the rules behind it carry a new procedure, a new job to the state administration. Furthermore, I would like to welcome, support, and I will also say that I would like to commend the motion that Article 27 predicted that a woman who has been removed from the record of the unemployed on account of receipts will not lose her right to this as was the case so far when women have accepted temporary and occasional jobs for a week, two, three, a month, losing the continuity of unemployment and losing these rights, and this is now the injustice, in my opinion, correcting the injustice. And in the end, I would ask you to explain something to me regarding Article 31. So these are the women, and this article calls for Article 7(1), point 3. In Article 7, paragraph 6, paragraph 1 refers to women who are beneficiaries of pensions, to the beneficiary of the right to professional rehabilitation or to the beneficiary of the right to a disability pension. So the whole article 31 should apply to them. I understand everything, but one thing still doesn't... A woman who is a pensioner, a disabled pensioner, has the right to maternity leave 28 days before the expected birth, 42 after it is mandatory and later until the 8th year of the child's age, 8th birthdays can choose when she will benefit from and exercise the right to maternity benefits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. What about her retirement status? Stops being in that moment of retirement and becomes a birthright or benefits both rights? So this right and this status related to the general pension regulations here I haven't seen regulated, and in the pension gaps there's no provision on this because this is a newspaper. Here in this article we introduce a newspaper that, the Law on General Pension Regulations, does not regulate, does not determine and does not know. So if I'm right or you agree with me, look at Article 31 and put in an amendment if it's necessary to clarify that. If I'm wrong, then I expect you to answer that, which is what it will be, the status will be with an important note. There is no such status in the pension general rules. And I'm afraid we'll have misunderstandings in the application of this provision of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12454	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12455	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to correct Mr. Lesar's alleged respected representative when he finds out that no government has put material rights first for mothers who exercise certain rights. I would just say that at the moment of taking responsibility for the Republic of Croatia almost 100% increased maternity benefits, this government also classified mothers who were not employed with maternity benefits almost as well, and increased the amount of children's allowances in a 100% amount, which is a strong incentive and contribution to the most innovative policy of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12456	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12457	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As we have heard today, the unfavourable demographic trends in Croatia are actually the direct consequence of poor intelligence policy. The numbers born are less and less what we heard from Mrs Bilić-Vardić and the cause of that is, of course, the increasingly expensive living conditions, the uncertainty of employment, the uncertain future, and the bad message that is being sent to future parents. And of course, all of these are reasons for reducing the birth rate in Croatia. And institutions exist. There are ministries in charge of the family. There are tips for population policy and, of course, national population policy but, of course, the situation does not radically change. And the issue of maternity benefits and parental support is always a very important issue, but also a major problem that is being imposed. This element depends largely on the birth benefits and parental support themselves because they provide social security to a certain extent. The Bill's proposal on maternity benefits and parental support aims to regulate several elements, starting with the equality of mother and father, then their exit to the market, the economic independence of women and the five well-being of children, which, of course, I welcome. The law will seek to regulate the stronger involvement of fathers in child rearing, which is mostly a positive undertaking, and will be able to achieve it after 42 days of maternity leave. The mandatory maternity leave will last the first 6 months for the first or second child. For the third and next child, the family will last 30 months. Parents will be able to use birthright, but until the eighth year, which I also welcome the flexibility of that. During mandatory maternity leave, the working mother will receive full pay compensation and another 6 months at 80% of the budget base. In any case, the law represents a certain positive shift in awareness of the country's decline in birth, but the question is whether more can be done. It is certainly necessary to welcome the possibility that a father gets a maternity benefit, which satisfies the principle of the same presence of both parents in child rearing, which is very important for the development of the child himself. The attempt to modify, or intervene labour market laws in order to protect young parents is also positive, but the question is whether it will be achieved, or whether the mechanisms will do what Mr Beus said would be nice if it were harmonised with other measures. This should also be mentioned by the users, i.e. the users of maternity or parental support, so that we list employees, self-employed workers, farmers, women fees, pensioners, or women outside the work system, which is to be welcomed, are all those who enter the categories concerned, in fact they have the right to receive maternity benefits and parental support. An injustice has been corrected according to one category of women I've talked about before, which is a category of women who are entitled to health care through another income, i.e. a woman who works part-time. They did not exercise the right to receive maternity benefits and parental support, which is one of the forms of discrimination, of course, by such employees who directly prevent the creation of a family because of the unresolved material situation. Of course, this was an inequality, not equal opportunities. They actually charged their services on a fee basis. in the second income category. Therefore, although such women pay 15% of their contributions to health insurance, equally as employees and self-employed, they are users who exercise the right to health insurance based on second-income payments, they are equally equal with farmers and unemployed, which is not an ideal solution. That is why I propose that the addition of Article 28 Mr. Secretary of State, in such a way that during the period most sensitive to all mothers, and that is the time immediately before and after childbirth, all mothers, regardless of their working legal position, are even. In the same way as the working and self-employed mothers and mothers referred to in Article 27(1), they need maternity leave from working 28 days before the expected birth, as they may also have problems in pregnancy and may give birth before the time. The adoption of this amendment would bring the mothers referred to in Article 27(1) a sense of dignity and security and would allow them to look forward to the birth, otherwise the differences in rights between employees and self-employed mothers on the one hand and all other mothers on the other hand will remain too high, and, unfortunately, these others will, rather than enjoying their pregnancy, desperately seek family members who will report them as a housekeeper and thus place them legally in the category of employees. And that's why I'm going to submit such an amendment. It would then refer to Article 7(4), the beneficiary of the right of maternity and parental support under the provisions of this law is also a person who, on the basis of a solution from the competent authority, is a child entrusted with the care and training, or guardian, which is certainly commendable, but this does not solve the problem facing these persons as regards their rights. These individuals need to be guaranteed equal rights as do parents, for they are also involved in raising children in exactly the same way as parents themselves. Then she would refer to the article 17 that says, which deals with leave in the event of a child’s death, but it withdraws some ambiguity. The article says that leave can be granted for mothers who give birth to a dead child or if their child dies at the time of their leave. But the question arises, which mothers count, and what happens to mothers who experience a spontaneous abortion before childbirth? Whether they have the right to benefit from leave, or whether they include mothers who have given birth to a dead child, and who have not begun to use maternity leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12458	Thank you. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12459	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. This law prescribes maternity leave for mothers working until the first year of a child's life, for mothers who have given birth to twins, third and every next child until the third year of life. Mother’s right to breast-feeding has also been introduced, the right to work in part-time for increased child care up to the third year of a child’s life, the right to an unpaid leave until the third year of life, the right of a child’s parents with developmental difficulties or to work in part-time until the seventh year of a child’s life, and the right to work in the shortened working time of a child with developmental difficulties and after that age. The law prescribed the possibility of applying the father’s right to maternity leave after the expiry of mandatory maternity leave, that is, after the sixth month of the child’s life. On the basis of this law, the right to maternity leave and maternity benefits has been extended to mothers who carry out some of their own activities, are engaged in crafts and the like, and to unemployed mothers. According to the provisions of this Act, a mother who carries out an independent professional activity, craftswoman, farmer or mother who carries out another activity, and on the basis of her work is provided with pension, disability and health insurance, has the right to maternity leave and to compensation under the same conditions as the mother who exercises this right according to labour regulations. It is necessary to say that this law is a positive step through the introduction of the right to maternity leave of the mother on a regular basis on the basis of a certificate of regular education and an unemployed mother who gave birth to the first or second child, on maternity leave and on a child's sixth month of life, and on the possibility of using an additional maternity leave for up to 14 months of child's life if the child's father used maternity leave until the first year of life for at least three months. Instead of the current excessive social access to the family support system, it is necessary to encourage a reduction of unemployment through solutions that encourage parents to go out to the labour market, and to create assumptions for increasing employment through solutions that encourage employers to keep their parents at work after the birth of a child and the application of their rights under this law. As a result, individual solutions under this law must be directly related to employment, labour and labour protection regulations. In particular, this applies to the removal, current overlapping or mutual non-compliance of employment rules and the Law on maternity leave of mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers for whom unemployed mothers rarely lost their right to maternity leave and compensation, especially mothers who, during the application of the right to maternity leave, have reborn. The harmonisation of these two regulations is necessary for the reasons why rights under this law can also be exercised by an unemployed adoptor or guardian of a child. Decisions under this law, for reasons which represent one of the social rights of workers, must have a foothold in the Labour Act, and will consequently find their own solutions in the collective contract, the labour council agreement or the employer, and other acts on labour. In particular, this applies to the proposed flexibility of the right of use on maternity and parental leave, part-time work, and the protection of pregnant women and mothers who breast-feed children. With regard to the solution provided for in this Act, it is also necessary to find a legal foothold for the implementation of provisions on maternity or infant leave. The increase in the number of users compared to the current number of users of rights will contribute to the opening of legal assumptions for obtaining the right to foster leave of persons who cannot achieve such rights under current regulations as persons who earn other income, self-employed persons, farmers, unemployed persons and persons outside the work system. According to the Ministry of Health and Social Care, 134 adoptions were based during 2006 and 121 adoptions in 2007. Among other things, the law encourages fathers to use part of parental leave. The possibility of using leave for parents with children with developmental difficulties is also extended until the eighth year of their child’s life. These are certainly useful changes, but they will not significantly affect the improvement of the demographic picture of Croatia unless local communities are actively involved in solving this problem with various stimulating measures primarily by building kindergartens, mangers, and single support for the birth of each child. The situation with the birth rate in Sibenik County is below all realistic indicators. Feel free to say that some parts of Sibenik County are simply extinct. Almost nowhere is the birth rate seen by all municipalities and cities in the county greater than the mortality rate. That's it. To be more specific. In 2006, none of the towns or municipalities were born anymore than the dead, so it is incomprehensible today that the city of Sibenik does not single out a single kuna to help the firstborn in its town, and in 2006, there were only 370, given the 561 deaths. How then we will look for other solutions to increase the number of born if the town of Sibenik does not have a basic measure to increase the policy of birth, which is helping parents for the first child. But to go back to the law itself. Further progress has been made with this law in the field of equal treatment, as all legal assumptions have been made for the exercise of the prescribed rights of all employees, as well as other citizens. In particular, the law affirms equal parental responsibility for the care and raising of newborn children, and labour inclusion through the introduction of different opportunities for the use of the right to time support. The law also opens up the possibility of achieving the prescribed rights and foreigners with permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia and, upon the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union and the equal treatment of citizens from the Member States of the European Economic Area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12460	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Neda Klaric, Nedjak Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12461	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I would like to correct in fact an alleged respected representative of Mrs. Crljenko who says that the shift will not take place in the most intelligent policy, if the local community does not engage strongly in the implementation of measures and does not understand that the city of Sibenik cannot single out one-time monetary aid for newborn babies. I will warn you that 11% of the budget means 18 million kuna per year the town of Sibenik spends on preschool age alone in Croatia which is therefore an additional contribution for children in preschool age on one side and on the other side of what is definitely already recognised by the restoring ministry that the town of Sibenik is building a special institution of preschool education for children with special needs. So much for the state of the city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12462	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs. Representative Crlenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12463	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 209 Dear colleague Klaric did not correct my incorrect allegations, so she did not deny anything that the town of Sibenik did not support its firstborn in the birth of the first child.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12464	Okay, well, now she's up to it, so Mrs. Neda Klaric will. Here you go. It's a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12465	Well, I'm just... here in the Croatian Parliament repeats the same story and certainly the next financial year for the city of Sibenik is what will be worn, not only once cash aid for newborn babies, but also other projects that will contribute to the most important national strategy in population policy. [[Speech is not enabled.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12466	You're having an argument. Well, it wasn't a commentary, it was a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12467	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here I would say that the origins of the Law on Birth and Parent Support are in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which determines that the state protects motherhood, children and youth and creates social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life. In addition to harmonising Croatian legislation with the positive regulations of the European Union, the purpose of the adoption of this law is to fully regulate the rights of employees, self-employed and unemployed parents on maternity leave and benefits that have so far been regulated by the Labour Act and the Law on maternity leave of mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers. The entry into force of this law, which is certainly better than the previous one in less than five years, will take another very significant step towards further affirmation of the measures of family and population policy, and this act will almost fully implement all the planned measures of national population policy in the area of the family support system. This law will certainly reflect positively on changing the demographic structure of the population through a greater number of newborn babies since each social group of future and present parents finds its place in the law according to its working status. It encourages parents to go to the labour market, in a way it empowers the employer to keep their parents at work after the birth of the child, and it will also make it easier to coordinate family and work obligations using a whole series of monetary and weather support that promotes gender equality, social sensitivity and personal responsibility. The responsibility of another parent with regard to raising and raising a child is more prominent, the mother is economically strong and opens up greater opportunities for her professional advancement. Full inclusion will also be achieved by trade unions, and the circle of users of rights will be extended in one part, and in terms of material fees already spoken of. The extended circle of users will also be the takeover of beneficiaries of cash compensations during the application of leave rights or part-time work for the care of a child with developmental difficulties still in the social care system in the family support system. The circle of users will also be extended to unemployed right-holders on adoption leave or custodian who so far have not been able to achieve this right as persons who earn other income, self-employed persons, farmers, unemployed persons and persons outside the work system. I will support the passing of this law because it systematically includes leave, cash benefits, labour savings, cash aid and single-time cash assistance for the newborn child and child support provided by the mother, father or another person who cares for the child until the age of eight, and in exceptional cases even longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12468	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12469	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, at the beginning of the debate on the Bill of Birth and Parent Support, we must remember that at the end of 2006, and my predecessors said so, we adopted a national population policy which through 7 basic areas of action worked out through 62 measures and activities in the period from 2007 to 2012 tried to stop how my colleagues also said this negative demographic trend and provide favourable conditions for, above all, rejuvenation and numerical increase in our population. This document is the basis, certainly for strengthening and family as the highest values of society, strengthening the institution of the family, and thus the whole society. There is also a proposal for a law that has a special place in the national population policy within the family support chapter. We should certainly commend the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, because in the programme mentioned above, I would say almost a strategy sets goals and priorities, which are primarily to expand the system of these family support for different, enable the availability of services to all families to the same extent and allow free choice in how to use maternity and parental leave. The first measure in national population policy is also exactly the measure of passing a special law, the uniform law, is the deadline, I want to remind you there was somewhere in the first quarter by half of 2008, and here, for that we really should commend the ministry because this law is before us today. So far, these support has been addressed, and through the Law on maternity leave, mothers who carry out their own activities, unemployed mothers, the Labour Act, so every once in a while, now we really have one place in which this support is resolved. What paper does this law bring? First of all, maternity leave has the right to use mothers for up to 6 months of a child’s life and for working mothers and unemployed mothers who carry out their own activities. This law can benefit the child’s father. The parent is entitled and on parental leave after 6 months of the child's life, and that, here's the paper for a year we expanded it to the eighth year of the child's life. The paper is that for the born twins the third and every next child, the next child's parental leave can last 30 months. The right to maternity leave and parental leave also have parents who do not work and do not do so half full-time or those who work on a contract on a work that we have solved exactly the eternal demands of mothers who do part-time work, who do not contract on work and thus are extended rights. So I'd say another category of society. Not so to say I think maybe the category of society sounds ugly but really a new category of society. Parental and parental benefits can also be made by farmers and I have told and I repeat and unemployed parents, this is particularly important. And the parental leave that is after 6 months of a child's life can and is granted to adopters who are at this point in some way I could say even though they are not biological parents but evenly with parents. A significant change in this law except for the extension of users' rights is also an increase in cash fees for employed and self-employed parents during and using birth leave rights they have a salary of 100% of the base. For remuneration determined under specific mandatory health insurance rules, they shall be paid by the institution. So going again I would say to the burden of the state budget during the application of parental leave rights have the right to 80% of the budget base for 6 months and at the end of the 6 months for 50%. It may also seem that when we talk about children it is not enough, but we need to know that these family support will cost a lot of money this year, but I think that nothing is difficult in the state budget to give especially when it comes to improving family conditions, and especially improving conditions and children. Of course, today, a colleague said, "Here is a colleague, Klaric, who replied to sensitize the local community. It is not enough to expect that we will always be able to seize the state budget to increase support and some environments continue to do so either with one-time aid or with a whole series of support in the area of social care that is now being strengthened by the family. So when you add it all together, then we can't really say that today's society is that this government and the local communities don't apply in a positive way and they don't set in a positive way towards the family and the support they provide. How important this problem we are dealing with today is also the implementation of this law, which is set up before us by a commission composed of representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Institute, Croatian Chamber of crafts, Croatian Association of Employers and trade unions. I think what's most important is what this law is, which is, that I'm going to end up having my own debate and stress that the law will foster responsible parenting. It will enable women to be involved in, increasingly involved in the labour market rather than sometimes discriminated against because of the birth of children. So both parents are equal and both parents are involved and must participate in child rearing. It's the only way we're really going to get back, and we're all going to get our family back to the centre of the community's attention. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12470	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12471	Thank you, Mr. President. I would say a few words about this bill but in a way that, in fact, given that a great deal of agreement has been reached in this assembly and I would say, to the most extent, a consensus on this law then I would actually say a few sentences more in terms of the importance of the law in the position of harmonisation with the legislation of the European Union. One of the basics, one of the basic elements when a man looks at this law, the one who led me to this, one of the basic reasons is the fact that actually this matter has been regulated in Croatia so far, I think with 4 or 5 laws. So with the Labour Act, birth permits and benefits, compulsory health insurance, the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, and so on. So it's an important element, and it's an important moment, so now we actually have one document, one material that regulates this important question. On the other hand, it certainly took care of everything that actually comes from the domain of protection of human rights and regarding fatherhood and motherhood so that, in fact, this law has succeeded to the greatest extent in equating parents and in a certain way to respond to the non-inclusion so far, I don't know, mothers on the labour market. This has actually opened up a lot and made a lot possible which is actually one good side of the element of this which I am talking about, which is to bring it into line with the European Union as such. On the other hand, this law has certainly achieved a full goal, a full hit when it comes to our own national population policy, and in fact this is one instrument, the most important instrument, I would say a united instrument that achieves this population policy and we actually believe that it will give the best possible results. However, praise to the Government not only for what happened I don't know from 4.5 materials, one synthesis into one quality material new but also the fact that, in fact, in the next budget, since next year, the separation for this matter will be significantly, significantly higher, which is actually direct, direct, direct support. I agree with my colleague Lesar, he is not here when he spoke about other elements affecting the number of children, so the decision of parents to have a child more in terms of not knowing everything that goes with the family and the workplace, and neither do I, the infrastructure used by parents to make it easier for them to raise their child. So in big cities it's definitely kindergartens and so on. But of course it's the space of the apartment, the apartment, the home and so on. We have said here several times that it is not all in the schools and that, unfortunately, those who have a lot of money and a lot of conditions fulfilled to have more children, do not use them, so we know that the most developed parts of the world, I do not know or countries that have the strongest and biggest gross national income unfortunately did not respond at their national level and the number of children and offspring, but that they do have fewer children than those who do not have these conditions. However, for our occasions, for opportunities in the Republic of Croatia, certainly one combination of one and the other, on the one hand, on the one hand, our determination, our conviction and our love for our own children and I would say to ourselves on the one hand, and on the other hand, the achievement of new preconditions and conditions will really lead to the achievement of these goals set in the national population policy, which is in fact in a certain way and strategic national policy, because I don't know at all what we have and we build and what Croatia is, if it doesn't have its own children. I'm going back to that element still money, so it's known that by this law of the next financial year from the budget for these fees and for these types of support is being allocated, I think Mr. Secretary of State, about 2 billion and 18 million kuna, which I think is approximately 400 million kuna, 350, 400 million kuna more than ever before. Therefore, here is so much support for the Government, for you here representing the Government, and for your own personal name, I thank all those who have spoken affirmatively about this law, and especially those who spoke affirmably of the importance of national population policy as one of the instruments that is being implemented and it is, in the right sense, the word national policy and national security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12472	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12473	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I only answered because I didn't know who to replicate to. Whether the colleagues on the left or right of me so that someone would not find themselves offended I decided to report here in this individual debate. The basic thesis for my replica was next. Many of their colleagues have tried to link demographic problems in the Republic of Croatia to poor intelligence policy. I can't agree with that at all. I will vote for this law because I think these shades that we are changing today compared to what we had yesterday or 4 years ago are completely insignificant when it comes to the population policy of the Republic of Croatia. Comrades and colleagues, let's be realistic, let's be honest with ourselves and our citizens. The progeny policy is just one small wheel, I wouldn't even say the most significant in terms of the weight of our demographic problems. Even the best intelligence policy wouldn't solve it, I repeat our problems. That doesn't mean I underestimate her. Far from it. That's why I said I'd support her and vote for her. However, colleagues and colleagues. We have to do everything we can to keep young people from going into the world. This means that we need development policy, education policy, economic policy so that these young people have a place to work, that this workplace meets their needs and that they are not leaving us. We must further lead one wise and migration policy. Here, in the last month we've talked a lot about workers coming to Croatia, that we're going to increase that number. A colleague, Lesar, mentioned just before an enormous number, a frightening number of workers we're going to need. However, there is also a taboo of topics that we do not talk about at all about colleagues and colleagues. Many countries that do not have demographic problems, without having them run another policy, are planned and migration policy from the youngest, from students who clearly educate free of charge with the aim of keeping the best, offering scholarships, studying, women and staying in the society of those countries. And we have to start that. We too must seriously consider whether a 50 - year - old worker is more useful to us than a young man who will be able to assimilate himself through schooling in our society. I admit, it's a difficult topic, whether we have to open them up. We have to open it eventually. Youth mortality, car accidents, drugs, how many young lives a year? It's an enormous number. The suicide of young people, more defenders of colleagues and colleagues died of their own hands, unfortunately than the enemy, which is an ugly thing to say, but that's how it is, or that figure almost approaches that number, you know? A very large number. So let's, let's be honest with ourselves, let's say that demographic problems and population policy are something much, much more than what we're discussing here today. I would very much like to be brave enough to open up a series of these topics and start really solving our society's problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12474	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12475	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I absolutely support what you fellow Doric said, I think it's very important that you listed everything and mentioned it, but I would only replicate it in one segment, which is when you spoke about the number of deaths during the war, so our defenders. And here I agree with you, so one man was killed in such a way is a lot of concern, not such a number. However, those who are seriously concerned with the epidemiology of suicides, so given the total number of people who have participated in the war and the total number of people, and when they analyze it in a certain way, I am saying this based on the conversations that only led to people in the Croatian Institute of Public Health who are dealing with this problem, then of course I am not reducing this problem, but I cannot conclude that there is no conclusion that among the population of people who have been defenders of a major trend or I would say even an increase in suicide. So, given that when I compare the number of suicides from before the war even in Croatia, then over the years of the war towards here, it has been established that God thanks this number of suicides in decline. So, the downfall is, which is really important and we need to know it and we need to have one measure of it actually because no one can, we need to have one professional, one scientific, not to say scientific, scientific approach because no one can say from so many people who were defenders were committed suicide or not would have been. Of course war and war trauma have moved people to do that. However, it is evident that there is no increase in suicide in Croatia. In fact, he's falling for great pleasure. But, of course, I fully agree with you, it does not lessen the absolute concern and absolute surveillance and turning that problem and doing all that is necessary for the defenders in particular, so that it does not come into the future at all. I'm closing it one more time. I absolutely agree with you and that national population policy isn't just this, but it's actually expensive to do a lot of things that we do as an organized state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12476	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12477	I thought I'd answer my colleagues in a completely different way, but when he said that maybe a part of those people would raise their hands to themselves and that they weren't defenders, I don't think I have a need to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12478	Final Review State Secretary Mr Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12479	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for the support you have expressed in this law and thank you for the constructive discussions and suggestions you have made, in order to improve the regulation of maternity and parental support regarding this law. The solution to this matter, the solving of this problem and the implementation of national population policy is important, it is really important and I would also stress here a crucial interest in the further survival of the Republic of Croatia. To this end, the government has taken a very positive turn and has increased the birth benefits, increased the child's allowance, introduced a promising supplement for the third and fourth children, introduced equipment for the newborn child, and, as you can see, this law has engaged large and significant material resources, and this means more than 2 billion kuna to implement this law in the following year. We will continue to lead a responsible and active policy of discovery, and in order to be of interest to the Republic of Croatia. I thank you once again for your constructive and valuable discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12480	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. with a budget rebalancing debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12481	The final draft law on maternity and parental support is an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 85. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Mr. Stjepan Adanic, State Secretary. Here you go. We have the first amendment of MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12482	The first amendment is not accepted by the Government on the grounds that the provisions of Article 1 are based on the fact that the subject matter of this law is entitled to time cash support for the prescribed case. The regulation of time rights allows parents to exercise their duties in relation to the child, and by prescribing monetary rights, social security during the exercise of the rights and duties of parents during the care of the newborn child. The rights and duties of parents related to childcare are governed by family legislation and the proposed amendment and supplementation is not acceptable for that reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12483	Thank you. Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12484	It's neither true nor acceptable what you said. It is not true, first of all, because in an explicit provision that speaks of compulsory maternity leave for mothers, it is therefore the case in this law and obligations. So you wrote it yourself in the law, and now you're saying it's not about obligations. That's one thing. Another thing, whenever it comes to children, in any law, not only in the family, but also in this, all the rights that belong to parents are not rights for parents because they have given birth to children, but because they have created a new person and these rights are also a duty to use these rights knowingly. It is not only rights, whether parents will use it or not, because it falls under care, that is, oversight and observation at the welfare center unless they are knowingly used and used on purpose by their rights, which are in favour of the child. That's why all these rights are also duties because you need to see what the meaning of that law is. So it's not the law that we're boasting about how parents are helping, it's precisely because of that, those rights are being promoted in relation to the new person. A child should be regarded as a person. And if that's how we go, and that's our European conventions, you know that, so if we see a child as a person who has rights first of all, then it's completely illogical for me not to accept this amendment because in family relations the last, or novels that she just saw as a child has been able to scholarship this particular duty and particularly affirm the duty of parents to use those rights that the law gives them. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12485	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Second, MPs Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12486	The amendment is not accepted, so the government does not accept the amendment. The basic meaning of this general provision of equalising the rights and responsibilities of parents in raising and raising children as well as of other persons who, in accordance with the law, care for a child in all circumstances when it is not possible to make a legal commitment. The use of the concept of custodian is not acceptable because the term custodian in terms of how it is proposed is contained in a philosophy or in an equal person.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12487	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12488	With this amendment, I just wanted to clarify this provision of the law a little bit better, so that these rights apply to those who have a child entrusted with the care or training. In fact, in all the laws that are written so that no provision is laid down, in practice we have that people cannot exercise their rights. Similarly, in the case of women who used maternity leave, you were unable to exercise the right to health insurance because some things were bad or in our opinion somewhat unsettled in law. Therefore, I believe that this provision of the amendment, i.e. Article 5, is much better, much clearer than yours, and I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12489	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Third Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12490	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12491	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The fourth representative of Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12492	The fourth amendment is not accepted by the Government, as Article 7(4) is prescribed that the user under the provisions of this Act and under the conditions laid down in this Act and persons entrusted to the child under a decision of the competent authority to protect and raise. In this respect, the proposal to supplement Article 6 has already been incorporated significantly and contained in the draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12493	Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go. This amendment has been withdrawn. The fifth also representatives of Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12494	This amendment is not accepted by the Government for the reason that leave is for the care of a child with severe developmental disturbances is the right to be exercised within the framework of labour legislation and is coming out of this area in all social working groups which are not actively active. This is an explanation of paragraph 2. The reasons for paragraph 6 is that the proposal to supplement Article 9, meaning that paragraph 6, is not acceptable because the prescribed rights of a person are solely to the rights of employees and... the parent does not have the possibility to exercise that right under another right of employment, a working legal position. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12495	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12496	Well, in this law that you have proposed, in fact, in one whole way, they regulate the rights based on parenting, and I don't think there's any reason for any other rights to what you said to remain strictly regulated by some other law because you've also transferred many of the rights you've given here from existing laws, because this matter has been regulated in three or four laws. So I think it would be correct in this article to include those parents who have children with developmental difficulties because that category of parents actually stayed out of the law in some way in this law, and then stay out of the reach of certain rights that this law gives parents based on parenting and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12497	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The sixth amendment of MP Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12498	The Government shall not accept for the reasons for the proposed amendment and addition of paragraph 1 of Article 12. The law on practice would mean abolishing the right to maternity leave for the purpose of protecting motherhood and transforming it into parental leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12499	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12500	You see, the truth is that a woman can still only have a baby, but who says a man can't change diapers either. You're saying further that maternity leave, parental leave will be used by parents as agreed that it's an alternative, that it's a choice. So a man's choice, and his wife's fate. The question of children, child rearing is a common concern from beginning to age, but after being old, if children are sick and unable to care. It is a common concern for parents who shared in the creation of a new life together, and that is how all advanced countries behave. And that's the only way we'll have healthy families. You see in Norway as well as in other Scandinavian countries, as well as Western Europe, both men and women and ministers are going on maternity leave, and here you have been blackmailing a woman, for a woman to have to go on compulsory maternity leave. Is that true for all women? Is that true of ministers? You've made a difference between women, not just making a difference, an unnatural difference between men and women. Because men and women are equally capable and obliged to take care of common children. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12501	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The seventh amendment of Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12502	The amendment is not accepted. We have paragraph 2, paragraph 4, and paragraph 6. Article 2 of the Act in question provides for the beginning of the application of compulsory maternity leave, but generally maternity leave as a period of protection for pregnant women and mothers. This provision was adopted by the Labour Act and there was no indication of its question during its application. Since it has proved to be reliable and recognizable in the protection of pregnant women and births, we do not consider it necessary to intervene in the same way. For paragraph 4, a period shall be prescribed where a pregnant woman may and under what conditions apply maternity leave prior to the birth of a child. This period shall be considered mandatory maternity leave within the meaning of paragraph 2 of the same article and shall, as in the current provisions, be a preventive period for the protection of pregnant women and, according to the assessment of the gynecologist chosen. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This provision has been taken over from the Labour Act and has not proved to be controversial in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12503	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12504	So this amendment and intervention in these three paragraphs is, in fact, primarily intended to make this area a little clearer. So something more precise defines the concept of an premature child. And in paragraph 4, so far you've said there was a right for a woman to take a maternity leave 45 days before birth, now you've limited it in some way by the gynecologist's opinion. Here I think that right should remain, it's some kind of acquired right and I think it should stay as a mother's right to decide for herself whether those 45 days before birth will benefit. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12505	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8, same MPs. The 8th Amendment of Mrs. Opacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12506	The government doesn't accept it either. The proposed amendment to Article 14(1) calls into question the equality of conduct as well as the freedom and ability of parents to speak within the scope and manner of application of the prescribed right. The right to parental leave shall be equal to the right of both parents, and in the event that its scope is determined for 8 to 32 months as proposed, this amendment shall not be subject to this provision for a maximum duration of 6 or 30 months by one parent.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12507	Thank you. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12508	So this amendment would actually achieve that they have the same right not only but also the obligation to use parental leave and mother and father, and I think that by accepting this amendment, this part of the law would actually comply with the Council of Europe's directives, so on a kind of parental leave reservation. Therefore, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12509	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 9th Amendment of Ms Milanka Opačić, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12510	The amendment is not accepted. ... obtaining the right to maternity leave and so on on leave in the event of the death of a child under the law is prescribed under mandatory health insurance and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is authorised by a physician of primary medical care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12511	Thank you. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12512	With this amendment, I have suggested that it has the right to use parental leave every mother for three months after giving birth to or hence a dead child or after the death of a child has occurred, and I think that, therefore, it takes a certain period of time for the mother to recover from the loss of her own child. And I think this period should remain recorded in law. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12513	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 10th Amendment of the same representative, Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12514	The amendment is not accepted. It is the addition of Article 18(1) at the end of the sentence, with the words "or the user referred to in Article 7(4) of this Article", not taking the whole paragraph. The subject of this provision is the transfer of rights from one parent to another, not the transfer of rights to the user referred to in Article 7(4) of this Act. The transfer of the right of use of parental leave to the user referred to in Article 7(4) of this Act is legally impossible in the way proposed by the amendment, since this is about the circumstances of the death of one of the parents, not both parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12515	Thank you. Mrs. Opacic is withdrawing this amendment. He's retired. The 11th Amendment of Madam Representative also Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12516	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment is not technically introduced in Article 23(1) of the Law proposal, as it is a matter of exemption from the rules. Also, this proposal is questionable for reasons why social circumstances related to single - parent families are cited as the reason for its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12517	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12518	Here in this amendment it is about families that have three or more children with severe developmental disturbances and I think that these parents should therefore have the right to both parents to use parental leave. It is fortunately very small, very few of our families who have three or more children with multiple damages or with therefore severe developmental disturbances. Taking care of these kids is simply something that requires 24-hour care and I don't think a parent who's going to take care of three or more kids like that can just take care of himself. And that's why I think that those families, which wouldn't be a big blow to the budget, because I say, fortunately, a small number, but I think those parents should also be covered by this law and allowed to use both parents' parental leave in that case. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12519	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12, Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12520	The government doesn't accept the amendment. This amendment withdraws the sign of equality between the leave for the care of a child with severe developmental disturbances and parental savings from work, care and care of a child with severe developmental disturbances. This right of employees and self-employed parents is, in fact, within the framework of labour legislation and commitments made on equal rights of employees and self-employed parents according to the relevant provisions of the European Union, and in order to comply with family and business life.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12521	Thank you. Madam representative withdraws this amendment. 13th Amendment of Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12522	The amendment is not accepted by the Government, as the proposal only amends in one part the existing provisions of Article 28 of the Law. The proposal comes from the the thesis that the rights of unemployed mothers, mothers created by other incomes and farmers outside the VAT system, with the right of employees and self-employed mothers to compulsory maternity leave. This proposal loses sight of the fact that there is a fundamental difference between the working legal position of pregnant women and births that are in the position of active employment and pregnant women and births that do not have that working legal position.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12523	Thank you. Here's Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12524	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I actually thought that since mothers are in that period in one of the most sensitive periods of their lives, before birth or after childbirth. And that is why both employees and self-employed and those mothers referred to in Article 27(1) actually need to be spared from working 28 days before the expected birth. They too can have problems with pregnancy, and they can have a baby too soon. Therefore, accepting this amendment as I have stated would create a sense of dignity and security in mothers. Otherwise, there are still differences that are important, and instead of enjoying the baby’s birth, they will be sure, most of them ask to be legal in the category of employees, or they will be looking for a family who will be able to report them as housewives. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12525	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 14th Amendment of Ms Milanka Opačić's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12526	This amendment is not accepted by the Government for the same reasons as I said earlier for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12527	Thank you. Mrs. Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12528	With this amendment, I suggest that parental relief from work can also be given to parents who have children with developmental difficulties. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12529	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15. Legislative Committee, amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12530	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12531	16th Amendment, Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12532	The Government does not accept the amendments for the purpose of establishing a deadline for payment of the case, meaning setting deadlines for cash payments, subject to contractual obligations of two or more parties and mandatory relationship rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12533	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12534	Well, I think if we care that we are actually implementing a birth policy to really help our families and parents, then I think it would be good in this law, regardless of these other laws, to write that this means, therefore, the remuneration paid on the burden of the state budget would be paid by 20th of the month at the latest, so for the previous month. Look, our citizens get their obligations neatly by the time you have to pay all the directors, if you don't pay by that date, you'll get interest, so you'll get some kind of fine in financial form by the state. And my question is, what about our citizens, so what about our parents who don't get their fee until the 20th of the month? They have to pay the directories, the state never pays the interest of course on its obligations that it does not fulfil until a certain date of the month. Therefore, I think it would be important to finally start writing down laws and things like this, because if citizens have obligations, then the state should also have some obligations towards them. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12535	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12536	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12537	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 18th Lady Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12538	The government doesn't accept. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. After taking advantage of adoption leave, the adoptor is now a parent and has no other right to parental leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12539	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12540	This is about parental leave, so children who are adopted over the age of eight. It is, in fact, that these children really leave in a foster family first in very rare cases. The second is children who need much more adjustments in the new family than children who are adopted by six months and perhaps two years of life. These children have a number of traumas behind them, from what they've been through in their family and often from abuse, from neglect, unfortunately they also have certain traumas, so to speak for living in an institution that was the only choice until the eighth year of life. Thus, these children certainly need much stronger adjustments. Every one of you who had a kid and when he went to first grade primary school, then we tried maybe for the first week or two to be with them, take them to school, be present. The question is, how can such a right be achieved by those parents who will adopt a child when they are eight years old? Unless, then, we provide some right in terms of parental leave for those children. So, I think that with these children, parents need to deal much more then, and I can't unless we as a state provide them with the right to parental leave, so for the adoption of children over the age of eight, the cost for the state will not be great again, because unfortunately, such adoptions are extremely little. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12541	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 19 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12542	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12543	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 20th Amendment, Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12544	The government doesn't accept. For the reasons related to the addition of paragraph 1, the time limit for payment of financial assistance is not necessary, since one-time cash aid is not subject to contractual or insurance rights. As regards the amendment to paragraph 2, that's where you gave the item. In the way the proposal for payment of one-time cash aid for a newborn child is explained, it is necessary to prescribe a new right. Namely, one-time cash support for a newborn child is paid for an adopted child up to the third year of life, a child only in case this right is not previously consumed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12545	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12546	I think we should finally fully equalize both parents and children. Those who are born in their own and grow up therefore in their biological family and those who are adopted. So I think these children's rights must be the same. But on the other hand, both parents and both children have the same needs. So, as the right to some kind of financial compensation is given to parents for their own child, so should they have the right to adopt the child. This child has some needs and these parents also have some financial expenses and the state should help in that part. Therefore, I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12547	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Milanka Opačić's 21st Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12548	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons for the submission of this amendment shall be referred to the reasons set out in Article 7 of the Law, which shall explain the existing manipulation of Article 45 of the Law proposal. As the custodian under Article 7(4) of this Act and subject to the new law, the person who, on the basis of the decision of the competent authority, is the child shall be considered to be entrusted with the care and care of the child. Since this amendment does not change the content of the norm, nor does it affect the extent and manner of the exercise of rights, it is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12549	Ms. Representative Milanka Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12550	This amendment therefore also tries to further clarify this law, and primarily in terms of the rights of the child when the decision of a particular institution is primarily entrusted to the Centre for Social Care and Education. So, in order for this law to be fully consistent and all of us to have the same rights, this is primarily about the right of a child to seek a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12551	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Milanka Opačić's 22nd Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12552	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The regulation of the procedure for the exercise of parental leave under the Directive of the framework agreement on parental leave is mandatoryly harmonised, governed by national legislation and is an integral part of collective agreements and labour contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12553	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12554	And this is one of the provisions for which it is questionable how it will be implemented when it comes to our employers. You know very well that we often bring here with the best intentions of some law, some protection mechanisms, but then in practice, it happens that employers are deafening it all. So already there are certain provisions in the laws that protect both pregnant women and mothers with young children. However, we have witnessed that none of this applies. Therefore, I think that this amendment, and I would say this, would make a little better sense of this provision, that this law is actually implemented in practice tomorrow when we say it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12555	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 23, amendment of Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12556	The government doesn't accept the amendment. It is a general law to be exercised on the basis of a written submission and according to official and stored data in the records of the Institute. The adoption of a solution will be necessary only in the event of the refusal of a request to which the party may declare an appeal or, in the event of an end, initiate an administrative dispute.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12557	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić, the amendment has been withdrawn. 24, amendment of Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12558	The government does not accept that this law does not describe the content... which raises the question of the purpose of the proposed amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the proposed form of the amendments, it is declared and for that reason there is no need for its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12559	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12560	So I will continue to insist that if citizens pay interest for not paying their own and not fulfilling their obligations, so does the state. We can't be equal in our own or we can't be, some have obligations, some have only rights. I think in this case it would be really good to put it on, but unfortunately you didn't accept that previous amendment, so it's hard for you to accept this one. So, I just wanted to say with this amendment that he has an institution that is obliged to pay the user a certain fee and he did not do so within that deadline of 20th a month, then he is obliged to pay the citizens a certain interest. Therefore, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12561	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And now, State Secretary, we have nine amendments from the 25th to 33rd conclusions of the Legislative Committee. Do you have something to say?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12562	Yes, the government accepts all amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-02-0.u12563	All amendments, from 25 to 33 of the Legislative Committee, have been adopted and become an integral part of the proposal. I am voting on the final draft law on maternity and parental support. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The law was passed with 101 votes for, 4 abstentions and nothing against along with accepted amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the session and move on to the agenda point - Proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 I welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Sanader and all the members present. The amendment and addition of the state budget with accompanying documents is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Prime Minister.
