ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11819	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, before you there is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Signature. With this law in the field of virtual electronic business, we are in some way rounding the whole and through these changes and additions, we further enable all business legal entities who want to do their business through electronic communications, of course, to get out of these types of business. The Act on Amendments and Supplements is the result, among other things, of the accession negotiations, in Chapter 10. - Information society and the media. In fact, the Law on Electronic Signature has been in force and the reality in the Republic of Croatia has been for many years. Just for your information, we have certified as much as 20,000 electronic signatures at the end of May, with 99.1% of which apply to business entities, commercial users, and we believe that we will also make these amendments and amendments to the laws in particular in the segment and protect their rights, especially in the section of voluntary accreditation of those who provide certification services, and thus create additional security in particular in the risk insurance segment that can occur in business by the certification service provider. We think that these additional safeguards will stimulate further growth of economic operators that will seek electronic signature and thus regulate their business via the Internet. What other changes to the law apply to. In addition to harmonising with European legislation, we also seek to reduce the administrative burden in such a way as to remove the obligation of a previous authorisation to start carrying out a certification service. So we simplify the procedure. As I said, we state the possibility of voluntary accreditation of those who perform a certification service in practice, although it is a voluntary accreditation in practice, users will sooner turn to authorised accredited certification providers than those who are not introduced into the register, the persons, or the persons who certify the signature and who, of course, do not have adequate accreditation. In the cross-border provision of services, a business entity in Croatia can also contact the certification service provider outside the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, service providers who have their business origin in one of the Member States, and of course Croatian legal persons who are holders of certification rights can also provide such a service to companies that have their headquarters outside the Republic of Croatia. In view of the future common area of the internal market, this law also sets the same standards for the recognition of certificates and the use of electronic signatures to third countries. Therefore, countries outside the European Union. In conclusion, what this law brings specifically to our citizens, which brings to business entities. It allows them easier access and processing and VAT and REGOS and concessions. Thus, it allows them to make full use of what has already been set up in the electronic world to remove, i.e. to bypass administrative barriers. Therefore, by electronic signature, users and pensioners and, as I have said, both VAT and REGOS can complete their forms, i.e. submit their reports on the basis of these amendments, proposed amendments and additions. I thank you for your attention, and I am available for further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11820	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11821	Dear President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The first Law on Electronic Signature in Croatia was adopted in 2002, and thus the legal environment began to be necessary for the functioning and development of the information society. This law defines basic terms as electronic signature, advanced electronic signature, certificate, qualified certificate, etc. The right of natural and legal persons to use electronic signatures in legal, judicial and other proceedings, business or other actions is also laid down. Also, the rights, obligations and responsibilities of signatories and certification service providers. Of course, certain supervision and criminal provisions have been prescribed. This existing Electronic Signature Act is only partially in line with EU legislation, so here today we have a proposal to amend and supplement it in order to fully comply with one of the conditions in negotiating Chapter 10. - Information society and the media. Thus, some concepts as a qualified certificate are defined differently, but some new concepts are introduced. The requirement of time is such as a time stamp, an advanced time stamp, which is actually an electronically signed confirmation of the issuer confirming the content of the data to which it relates in that time. The recognition of electronic signature and use in court proceedings without exceptions so far is required, in fact, still this law is in force. Since the electronic signature will be increasingly in use and security and reliability of its use must be increased, it is prescribed that the providers of certification services must also enable the recipient of the electronic message signed by electronic signature or other authorised person to verify the electronic signature. The conditions for the service provider to issue qualified certificates are also tightened which is even obliged to ensure the risk of liability for damages that potentially result from the certificater's guilt due to incorrect data of the period of validity and the like. So far, we have no, and these amendments would have been introduced, as the State Secretary said, and the voluntary right of accreditation for all future certification service providers to prove to everyone who fulfils all the conditions laid down by this Act. This would lead them to enter a public electronic register of voluntary accredited certification service providers led by a single accreditation body, which would also carry out accreditation supervision. That body, the accreditation body shall establish or determine the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the Registrar. These amendments shall equalise the validity of qualified certificates issued by certification providers based in the EU with qualified certificates issued by service providers in the Republic of Croatia, so they shall be fully equated. They shall also be prescribed under the conditions of recognition of the validity of qualified certificates issued by certification providers established in countries outside the European Union. Inspectives on the labour provider of ministry certification services would now be carried out by the State Inspectorate. And here, in order for all of this to come to life within six months, the minister is obliged to bring in sublegal acts and this looks a little complicated, but it's electronics, and we have to follow it, and there are really big steps to go forward, and when we move on, HDZ supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11822	Thank you. Mr. Zdenko Franic on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11823	Honored Mr. President, honored State Secretary, representatives of the Ministry of Economy, honored MPs and MPs. As usual, long-awaited and spectacular things eventually come quietly, unobtrusively, the general public may find this topic as uninteresting as those who sometimes know how to warm up, but as my former HDZ colleague said, we are moving on and we are really moving on because by adopting the Law on Electronic Signature in 2002 in this Assembly we actually entered the information society and cyber space. A rubicon has been propped, which was shared by the Croatian cyberspace from an orderly cyberspace of the international community. Anticipating the development of an information society-based economy in information technology, the Parliament adopted the Law on Electronic Signature, and now it is about significant improvements, improvements and alignment with the requirements of the European Union. In fact, the year was in 2002. The Croatian Accreditation Agency, the Croatian Bureau of Standards were components of the National Institute for Standardization and Measurement, and then it was not actually possible to think about voluntary accreditation of the provision of electronic signature certification services. By adopting this Act on Electronic Signature, the legal validity will also have the signatures to be issued by electronic means on all impediments, severances, letters of intent, credentials, invoices, customs declarations, tax returns, VAT returns, etc. Citizens, at least those who have the right technical opportunities to do so will benefit from this law, except in banking and many other economic activities, I hope that they can also feel different documents from the body of the state administration. Also, thanks to this Law, the business of many economic operators, at least the more informatively sophisticated ones, will be facilitated and accelerated. The logical consequence of the development of information technology, especially the Internet, is electronic trading and business. The impact of the Internet on the economy and the development of electronic business is extremely high, and the total turnover of goods and services on the web alone is now being measured by billions of dollars, so billions of dollars. A well-organised e-signature law will also help the Croatian economy get at least a piece of that cake. Of course, all those who wish to benefit from the benefits of electronic signature should meet certain conditions themselves, but also assume certain obligations regarding their own and other security, for example, they must use applications that meet certain safety standards that are set to the quality of software, and servers and hosting on which they are all located must have ISO 27 thousand-1 certificate related to information technology. This Law therefore defines the obligations of the certification service provider and repeals the provisions which have been revised in the former law to grant authorisations for the operation of certification service providers, which was also contrary to the provisions of Directive 1999/93 of the European Commission on the common European electronic signature framework. Finally, provisions that prescribe voluntary accreditation of certification service providers have also been added. This Directive requires that the internal market of the European Union must enable providers of electronic signature certification services to increase the scope of their cross-border activities to improve their competitiveness and enable the economy to change information and secure electronic trade regardless of borders. It must be possible for providers of such services to act without prior authorisation by the State administration, but therefore the same Directive encourages voluntary accreditation. Article 34d proposed in this proposal provides for the establishment or designation by the competent authority of the accreditation body to carry out the tasks of the accreditation body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister. However, I would like to remind you that the accreditation body, namely the Croatian Accreditation Agency, already operates in the Republic of Croatia, has been shortened by the HAA. The HAA is an independent and non-profit public institution established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2005 under legislation, a law adopted by the Croatian Parliament as early as 2003, and the HAA performs the tasks of national accreditation services in the Republic of Croatia, including accreditation of certification bodies. The effective action of the Croatian accreditation agency as the most important components and infrastructure of quality is a crucial request of Article 73. Stabilisation and Association Agreements as a mechanism for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. The Croatian public should again be reminded that the quality infrastructure relating to normisation, accreditation, measurement, conformity testing and, in a broader context and intellectual property, not only is the most important requirement for accession to the European Union related to these technical requirements, of course, after the political preconditions have already been met, it is also the only effective remaining protection of the Croatian economy and the only remaining defence against poor goods and services. Once the borders disappear between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the moment Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. The HAA was established to implement Croatian technical legislation which is in line with the acquis of the European Union, and the technical regulation regulates the safety of products and freedom of movement on the internal market, protection of citizens' health, consumer protection, environmental protection and other areas of public interest. Moreover, in 2005, the Croatian Accreditation Agency was only a few months after the Government of the Republic of Croatia established it, admitted to full membership of the European accreditation cooperation as a roof organisation covering the areas of accreditation in the European Union. The accreditation of the Croatian accreditation agency by the EA is also under way and consequently all the accreditations issued by the HAA will, in effect, be valid throughout Europe and the world. It should be noted that the activities and results of the Croatian accreditation agency are also recognised in a report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia, which was made by the European Commission for 2007 and, as well as other components of Croatian quality infrastructure, has been given a clean five. Therefore, it is extremely irrational to even think about the possibility of setting up another accreditation body in such a way as to make an EA position, i.e. European accreditation cooperation as a roof organisation, that only one accreditation body should exist for the assessment of compliance at national level. It should be noted that, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, this principle has already been violated because the Government, through the Ministry of Health, established the Health Quality and Accreditation Agency as a legal person, whose responsibility is to ensure and improve the quality of health care and accreditation in health care. Therefore, since this agency is involved in improving and ensuring quality, it should not refer to accreditation and, in practice, even this agency uses services of the Croatian accreditation agency which itself has set up a scheme for accreditation of medical and bio-medical laboratories in which software security and then this law that we will adopt plays an extremely important role. Therefore, the SDP will support this law that brings further liberalisation in the field of electronic signature certificates, but we will also propose an amendment to amend Article 34d by saying: "The accreditation body accredited by the certification service provider is the Croatian accreditation agency.". The Croatian accreditation agency has proved its effectiveness and has so far implemented the accreditation of 120 different organisations of moderate and test laboratories, and in the final phase, it is the process of its full accreditation in the EA. The providers of electronic signature certification services to be accredited to the HAA will gain market advantage not only in Croatia but also in the wider region, as in the wider region, according to my available information, the laws on electronic signature are not adopted and they do not have accredited electronic signature certificates and in this case they can use the services of Croatian certifiers as other Croatian legal entities can use accredited certification services from the European Union. In addition, it is an EA position, as I said, that only one accreditation body works to examine compliance in the national countries of the European Union, although the truth is done by this guideline is 199 93 of the European Commission. In a broader context, it's not about the national accreditation house. It's about the accreditation body. Since they are contacted, the management of the Croatian accreditation agencies can say that they know, they will, they can and are willing to take over these tasks of accreditation of the electronic signature certificates because they still have an accreditation scheme for certification houses, and this is actually nothing new in their activity. And I hope that the government will accept this amendment, and here I also believe that this day will remain recorded under a good law that will improve the Croatian economy and electronic business, so that this day will not remain remembered only after Croatia's victory against Turkey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11824	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11825	Mr. President, honourable promoters, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic signature, with a final proposal for a law, results in a direct connection with the results of the negotiating process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to Chapter 10-The Information Society and the media, and one of the criteria for closing Chapter 10 is fulfilled by its adoption. This means full compliance with Directive 1999/93 of the EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 1999 on the electronic signature system, which has a broad legal and technical impact on all electronic business factors from the users of electronic signature, legal or natural persons, service providers, certification of electronic signatures of manufacturers of dedicated computer equipment, programmes, state administration, economic operators and lawyers. In addition to harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquiss of the European Union, the adoption of this law opens up the possibility and encourages the application of electronic signatures, the exchange of electronic documents in administrative, judicial and other actions, but also opens up a space for stronger action in the electronic trade system, which today becomes an essential condition for the presence and competitiveness of world markets. From the details introduced or modified by these amendments and additions, I shall indicate, the term time stamp and the advanced time stamp shall be introduced as electronically signed certificates for the data to which it relates at a specified time. They shall allow the recipient of the electronic message to verify the signature securely, the obligations of the certification service provider under the current law which are broader than the obligations of the Directive shall be lifted. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is tasked with registering and keeping records of certification service providers in the Republic of Croatia. The issuing service provider of qualified certificates shall ensure the risk of liability for damages, compulsory insurance, and the minimum amount of insurance shall be determined by the Minister. Obligations of the certification service provider are prescribed when the service is stopped. The concept of voluntary accreditation is introduced, and then the accreditation body with public authority which exercises supervision and manages the public electronic register of accredited donors. Equivalence of qualified certificates issued by providers from the European Union with certificates issued by donors from the Republic of Croatia, etc. In view of all this, I support this legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11826	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11827	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. It is a good law that promotes existing legal solutions that were then passed within the framework of a possible one. The Honored State Secretary probably remembers the very complex and difficult negotiations that were held at the time with representatives of the European Union when they wanted to impose some quality infrastructure solutions that did not correspond to the Republic of Croatia, and it is good that they insisted on the solutions proposed by the Croatian Government because they proved to be good, enforceable and so that today here are just colleagues from the European Union trying to rephrase some solutions in their practice. In particular, I would like to underline the work of the Croatian accreditation agency as the most important components of quality infrastructure which, with its evaluators, expert assessors, leading assessors and experts, stands on the defender of the defence of Croatian quality and national interests related to the slaughter of goods and services, and prevent bad goods and bad services from flooding Croatia, as well as the good practice of Croatian businessmen and their goods being placed on the side of the market. However, in order not to be ideally able to say something about the problems that occur in practice when Croatian appraisers, experts do their job on the evaluation of the system, and so in the context of this law should mention that its implementation, especially when voluntary accreditation of the certification and electronic signature service providers and then the control of these certificates, will require the engagement of a large number of Croatian experts and experts in particular for Software and Information and Information Technology. There is a similar situation in other areas, chemistry, physics, engineering, environmental protection, etc. Namely, the fact is that evaluators often have problems with their own, in their engagement for the Croatian accreditation agency, because their parent homes are reluctant or difficult to let them do their part of the expertise, which is a pity, because it is mainly about experts and experts working in Croatian public institutions, universities, universities or economic organisations hospitals. Therefore, they simply place their part of the knowledge acquired by schooling or practice in the Republic of Croatia in the service of public goods in order to meet the very difficult and complex requirements set out in Article 73. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. For complex processes, evaluations, compliance of some methods of laboratory measurement, test methods, not all people can be engaged, but must be top experts, which are available only in our top scientific and professional organisations, institutions. It should therefore be considered that the Ministry of Economy in cooperation with the Ministry of Science, in a somewhat wider way, better recommunicates this need for institutions that are so owned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, universities, institutes, hospitals, universities, and that such experts can easily engage in such needs, which are most closely linked to what we all swear, which is the knowledge society and the acceleration of the knowledge transfer process towards the economy. The Ministry of Science might also consider that the involvement of these experts in such quality infrastructures, working on the technical committees of the Croatian Institute of Standards, is somehow recognised when progressing in professional calling, as this would show that science is not only important for the sake of significance, but that science has a real function and application, the broadest application in raising the well-being of the entire Croatian society and economy. Aid from the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Science to institutions and organisations that make up the Croatian quality infrastructure, especially those related to the Croatian Accreditation Agency, would be of immense importance. It should also be recalled that Croatian experts and experts under the hat of the Croatian accreditation agency have provided that the Croatian accreditation agency has been recognised in Europe, as well as in the world, and has, for example, been given the opportunity to participate in the restoration, i.e. the establishment of quality infrastructure in the youngest world state in Kosovo, because, together with the British accreditation agency, it has received a competition on a very demanding project related to these jobs. She wouldn't have gotten them if she wasn't very quality and competent herself. I therefore appeal once again to Ms. State Secretary and the Ministry of Economy to consider that the tasks of accreditation of the provider of electronic signature certification services, trust exactly the Croatian accreditation agency, although I personally submitted a slightly lighter amendment to which, as an alternative to this amendment, the SDP Club of Representatives Club, because it does not actually change anything important, in other words, because the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in some other cases, as the case of ionising air protection, has conditioned accreditation of institutions that will deal with this, just accreditation with the Croatian accreditation agency, and in a similar direction, this situation is also going on in terms of measuring asbestos fibers in the air. Once again, the accreditation of the test laboratory conducted by the Croatian accreditation agency will be done by the Croatian accreditation agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11828	Thank you very much. And finally, Mrs. Tamara Obradovic, the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11829	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, it is pleasant to have a final word when support is loud, support to one of the quiet and dedicated work of such a wide day and how one might then say no to the request of the honourable parliamentary representative Franic. Namely, I have not had the opportunity to see your submitted amendment, I believe that we will get it later, but on the trail of your suggestions and suggestions and the fact that the Croatian accreditation agency is really doing a great job and that I remember very well the days when we managed to retaliate some strange suggestions, when we were just beginning to establish a quality infrastructure and thank you for reminding you of one really difficult, one difficult area, which is the area of technical legislation. I use the opportunity to say that there have been no such efforts, today in the field of technical legislation where we have been assessed by really the highest grades, and where, to the very surprise of the European Commission, we have managed to meet the criteria and deliver our negotiating positions to a universal surprise. Therefore, I thank you for opening this topic here and using the occasion in some way to praise the Croatian quality infrastructure for everything it does, because of the many internationally recognised successes we achieve practically from day to day. So, in conclusion, the Government will, of course, find the right way to identify this very bright point of quality infrastructure in the accreditation process related to electronic signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11830	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic signature, emergency procedure, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 87. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of this amendment must be agreed by most MPs. Who agrees to hold a debate on the government's amendment? Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The proposal was accepted with 88 votes for, 5 abstentions, 2 against a debate. On the amendment of the Government, I would ask the applicant's representative to further explain the Government's amendment. Madam Secretary of State Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11832	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is the discussion of the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic signature in the part of the law relating to the functions of the accreditation body to be provided, which will be accredited by the certification service providers, the need for a more precise definition of the competent authority to perform the accreditation function, that is, in the Republic of Croatia at national level, the Croatian accreditation agency. The intention of this amendment, proposed by the Government, is to make it clearer to define that it is a Croatian accreditation agency as a national accreditation body, of course as such, it will not provide certification services itself. Therefore, by its amendment, the Government proposes amendments to Article 23, which introduce amendments to the proposed Article 34. D, so that in the consolidated text, the first paragraph of that article reads: "To carry out the tasks of the accreditation body, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, on a proposal from the Minister, designate the national competent authority to perform the functions of the accreditation body."
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11833	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11834	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. It is not clear why this statement remains on the Minister's proposal when you and the facts, the Croatian accreditation agency is the competent authority designated by the Government. In other words, the minister must always propose something that already works and that the government has long appointed to be a national accreditation body. Otherwise, I welcome the amendment of the Government, that the national accreditation body, in the event of the accreditation of electronic signature certificates, is indeed the Croatian Accreditation Agency, because it has knowledge, skills, the ability to do so as it belongs. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11835	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments to the government. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The amendment was accepted with most votes. 87 votes for and 8 abstentions. We move to the amendment of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 23. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11836	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. Given that the Government, by its amendment, has the objective of identifying the role of the Croatian accreditation agency in the proposed and adopted way, and the second reason is also the nomotechnical character, because the proposed amendment changes the second item that actually remains the same. And we think that, with our amendment, we have in some way guessed the essence of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11837	Thank you. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11838	Indeed, with its amendment, the government actually accepted the SDP amendment, although I believe that without this on the proposal of the Minister, it would have been much more precise and better, but I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11839	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on electronic signature. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. Score. This Final Proposal of the Law was adopted by the majority of votes. 101 votes for and 3 are abstentions. We move to: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 90; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law will apply to the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer want a representative? Ms Marina Dujmovic-Vukovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11841	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In the context of the reform of the judicial system and its alignment with the acquis of the European Union, it is necessary to make certain changes to the provisions of the Court Act. The amendments to the law primarily require full compliance and implementation of profits in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal and civil matters, and, in this respect, through amendments and additions to the laws on courts, to interpolate relevant Council Regulations. Judicial cooperation in civil matters has already been prescribed by the applicable law in such a way that municipal and county trade courts are competent to recognise and enforce foreign court decisions. The jurisdiction of municipal courts to carry out international legal aid operations is also prescribed. In order to ensure direct communication with the judicial authorities within the European Union in criminal matters, a system shall be established in the county courts as central authorities for the reception, or the transfer of legal aid applications in criminal matters, as well as for the transmission, or the execution and execution of a European arrest warrant and a warrant for the provision of property and evidence. The provisions of this law concerning the proposed amendments will apply after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the membership of the European Union. Also due to the need to develop a system of support for witnesses and victims of criminal offences, it is necessary to lay down in law provisions on the establishment and operation of a special judicial department relating to the provision of support to witnesses and victims in a court of law. The following is proposed that county courts organise, implement and support witnesses and victims. In accordance with those obligations in the case of the judicial administration, a department should be established in the county courts to provide support to witnesses and victims in court proceedings. The Republic of Croatia has been appropriately involved in cooperation mechanisms under European security and defence policy, as well as in co-operation with the Eurosystem, which is an obligation under Chapter 31. Foreign, security and defence policy. In view of the above, it was necessary in the Law on Courts to prescribe the possibility that judges could also be referred to peacekeeping missions. In addition to those amendments and additions with the aim of harmonising with the acquis, some other amendments to the applicable law are proposed in order to improve it, in the part relating to the work of the judicial councils, reports on the property of judges, as well as certain changes governing the organisation and functioning of the judicial system. It is proposed that the Judicial Council at its meetings decide by public vote of all members because the practice so far has proved insufficiently transparent. Furthermore, in order to regulate and ensure uniform treatment of the judicial councils. It is proposed that the councils made up of the presidents of all the Judicial Councils bring a single Rules of Procedure, within three months of the adoption of this law. The relevant law does not fully regulate the conduct in cases of non-compliance with Article 97 concerning the obligation to submit an asset report. Those amendments are therefore proposed to regulate the procedures in cases of infringement of the provision of that article. It is further proposed that, in the event of the court's merger, the President's office ceases, and that, until the appointment of the President of the newly established court, the justice minister shall be empowered by the judge of one of these courts or by the judge of the High Court of Justice to carry out the affairs of the judicial administration. Article 59 is proposed. The law is completely deleted because the broad possibility of submitting an extraordinary legal remedy is solved by a procedural law. This proposal fully aligns this matter with the relevant European Union regulations and addresses the observed shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11842	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Justice Committee, the chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11843	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Secretary of State. At the 7th session held on 16 June 2008, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 29 May 2008. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Proposer's introductory representative pointed out that the proposed amendments bring full compliance and enforcement of legal property in the area of judicial cooperation in civil matters. The proposal complements the jurisdiction of the county courts to support witnesses and victims, a public vote on the work of the judicial councils is proposed. The possibility of judicial officials participating in international missions is being introduced. It is proposed to initiate the suspension procedure for judges who do not supply property data, to propose changes related to the suspension of courts. In the debate, the members of the committee unanimously supported the draft law of Article 3 of the 23rd proposal, it is prescribed that the judge may be temporarily referred to another court, with his consent and the consent of the President of the Court. In this regard, it has been pointed out that it is a unique solution only for persons acting in a judicial capacity. It is suggested to compare the practice of some other European countries as regards the appointment, i.e. the reference to work in order to primarily tie the judicial duty to the needs of the duties or the appointment of judges could be linked to the area of jurisdiction of the court. Members of the board and representatives of the motions are familiar with the observations and proposals, on the proposal of the Law of the Association of Croatian Judges. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusions: First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on the draft law will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11844	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11845	Thank you, Mr. President, for the honor of the Secretary of State with your associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP Club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Courts, considering that it brings some newspapers and determines some inaccuracies that have been shown in practice in view of the latest amendment of the Law on Courts. Namely, the Law on Courts is a fundamental law that governs not only the partiality but also the frameworks of the conduct of all judicial bodies in the Republic of Croatia. And right now, let me say that although we have a special law that really is to praise that here inside the courts are the special departments that implement and support witnesses and victims in court. It's something necessary and necessary. We were witnesses, someone had it from personal experience, carried such experiences, and also through the media, various inconveniences experienced by witnesses in court, and not only in some shouting and delicate situations, but also in the most ordinary litigation cases of possessions and some other property or any of the proceedings pending before our judicial bodies. However, what I can immediately say is that this is something that is suggested by the European Commission, so that this support to witnesses and victims in court is not adequate and that it was also one moment that the proposing also decided on such departments. However, is this really going to be the case if, here in the proposal for an assessment of the situation, the necessary means to implement this law are immediately claimed that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. If we really mean it, if it is necessary to provide support and it is doubtless a fact that it is for witnesses and victims in court, then such support cannot be just verbal. It must also have its practical repercussions which, like all good things, require and certain means. I'd dare say here's a word on behalf of the club and not a small amount of funds. Therefore, here is the fact that they comment on that deep screening, ultimately and in the European Commission's assessment of Croatia's progress on this chapter, there is one particular obligation, or suggestion, that support should be given to witnesses and victims. Therefore, it was only one framework and we now needed to develop primarily in this law in which this support to witnesses and victims in court would come true and happen. This way, by copying just one remark from one of those, I don't think it's enough from one of those grades in that report. So here we are proposing from the SDP Club because it is a significant provision to do so until the next reading but also to allocate certain funds for such, so it would send to the citizens a message that we really care about those people who expose themselves to different inconveniences when they fulfil their civic duty and testify to the truth in front of our bodies. Because like this, it's just that there's just so much to write. There's no funds. Neither will the courts know what department, what would it consist of, and what would it do specifically? We have seen that in this bill, the biggest revision is being audited, or the biggest changes are experiencing this extraordinary legal remedy. There used to be an opinion that had been conducted so far, so far a philosophy in the law that the Supreme Court, which is really overworked, would be limited to a certain amount. He was well-achieved, determined to disembark the Supreme Court. However, it is obvious that this did not help the Supreme Court either, but that in such a best intention, such a provision was laid down. However, this was the case, a major discrepancies in the conduct of county courts that take into account the legality of municipal decisions, municipal courts in their area, and it is doubtless precisely for the sake of legal certainty, because nothing is giving birth to one legal certainty anymore than to conduct itself differently in the same and very similar situations. This is why the SDP Club also supports this revision because it is something that is needed, it is something that is just and we will see how it will then be very effective and we can follow further progress in unifying judicial practice. Maybe it's just also a suggestion from the SDP Club, it's something that we've all agreed more or less implicitly, someone like this not quite directly, but this is a chance when it comes to changing the Law on Courts to finally give one legal certainty to the weakest and these are the workers. So think about it, here I, on behalf of the SDP Club, suggest that the government consider until the next reading that special sections of the courts should be introduced to the courts in order to make these procedures faster and more efficient. It is something that the public, which the general public does not say to the working population expects of us, and here I believe that if we could work out this amendment well on the implementation and support of witnesses and victims in court and even when we set up working courts, we would have had a really good legal basis of the Law on Courts as a fundamental law which, which is also implemented by the reform of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11846	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative, Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11847	Honorable Vice President, Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments to the Law on Courts in particular to the part of the requests coming from the European Community, and most importantly to introduce an addition to the jurisdiction of the county courts in terms of the implementation and support of witnesses and victims of criminal offences in a court of 1.11.2009. Then, the obligation of the county courts from the date of Croatia's accession to the European Union to establish the system necessary for international legal assistance in criminal proceedings is established. The application of the principle of mutual recognition of decisions on the confiscation of assets shall be established again from the date of accession of Croatia to the European Union. The possibility of referencing judges to international peace missions is being introduced, determining the obligation of all members of the judicial council to vote in the sittings. The court is a place that none of us would like to visit in life, because it would mean that we live in a stable, unconflict way, that we are surrounded by problematic and traumatic family or business conflicts, painful, expensive and unpleasant that exceed our opportunities for a peaceful, logical and agreed solution, so we must seek the help of the judiciary. In spite of our desire to bypass it, we want a cheap, fast, effective, and accessible justice, preferably in the place where we live. That is why the majority of opposition two months ago reacted strongly to the abolition of 40% of courts as the first measure offered by the government to the parliament in the context of judicial reform. Because the abolition of anything, and especially places where justice has been shared to citizens for over a century, should be the result of a careful, detailed, comprehensive analysis of why we change something, how much change it costs, what are the positive effects of change. The abolition of the courts was literally the last measure in the area of justice to be discussed with me in the House. Before that, we should get the concept, strategy, objectives, deadlines for the enforcement of measures in the reform of the judiciary, which would make it clear and desirable for some courts to have to be abolished. Although our criticisms have gone wrong, Europe, but for God and general logic, the Ministry of Justice has made this session of the Parliament, along with another reading of the Law on the rationalisation of the network of courts, to deliver changes to some essential judicial laws, so through a united, concentrated insight and discussion, we will finally see what the Government is thinking in the fifth year of its work to address the situation in the judiciary, not to tampered with here, little there, and we do not see the intention, strategy, all the measures with which the Government intends to restore the confidence of citizens in the judicial system. Croatia is among the European states with the highest number of courts, judges and administrative staff in courts, but also the largest number of pending court cases and the highest mistrust in the judiciary. We have no doubt that we also have mostly high-quality personnel, judges and administrators. They certainly don't have optimal spatial and technical conditions for work, but we believe they have good enough not to be the brakes of their dedicated work. So we have courts, we have judges and administrators, and we are slow and inefficient. On average, of course, although there are many honorable, desirable exceptions especially to local courts, we first accepted them to end them as if they were the biggest problem. But there are too many who do not do well and who have created a picture of slowness and inefficiency. The Croatian People's Party considers that measures are needed to implement a series of emergency measures in the judiciary in order to make it more effective, in order to resolve cases quickly and efficiently. In terms of human nature, and we believe that they are extremely important, because only judicial officials can truly reform the judiciary. The personnel are the beginning and end of every reform and without quality personnel there is no quality justice. In these measures as well as in the administration, the criteria of the competition should be imitated. So, promote the most successful and eliminate the failures. In order to eliminate the incapacitated from the judiciary and promote the able-bodied basis of objective criteria, it is necessary to amend the Law on Regular Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council, and to introduce these amendments to the mechanisms of monitoring and establishing objective criteria for the work of judges which would be the basis for the appointment of judges in several courts, but also for the resolution of those who do not satisfy their quality and quantity of work. It will be necessary to redefine the framework criteria for the work of judges, the minimum number of resolved cases, the minimum acceptable number of abolished cases, the exceptions to that rule and others. The appeal departments of the county courts and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia would be obliged to assess the quality of judges based on appeal decisions in concrete cases. In the election of judges to a senior court, candidates would be ranked according to objective criteria, so the number of cases solved, the number of cases suspended, the number of confirmed cases, the assessment of the work of the Board of Appeal. The President of the Court would be obliged to monitor the results of all judges' work. When he notices information about the inadequacy or insufficient quality of the work of a particular judge, he is required to report it to the State Judicial Council for the purpose of considering his resolution from the judicial post. For example, anyone who has no valid justification, illness, maternity, professional training and, for example, for more than 4 months in one year has the number of cases solved below the lower threshold or the number of items lifted above the upper threshold would have to be declared to the State Judicial Council. Here, in our opinion, these are the personnel measures that need to be put on judges, solve them systematically from the outside. If the Ministry of Justice establishes these mechanisms, the internal staff problem among judges will be resolved, and this is a problem of responsibility that was well detected by the respected counterpart Josipovic. He manifests himself in the Czech solidarity of judges in the elections and in determining responsibility for work, so he says that today good, not bad judges, are guilty of the situation in the judiciary, because their professional and moral authority is not used to force quality, but to cover less good colleagues. Here, gentlemen of the Justice Department believe that the silent majority of good judges need help, because the indignation of citizens with the overall work of the judiciary is often unfairly perceived and labels a large number of judges who are honorably, consciously and professionally doing their job. The measures of human nature must include obligations, but obligations, not only the good will of education, continuous professional training of judges and state lawyers, and perhaps a step further and all lawyers should be forced to permanent education and professional verifications. Many thousands of kunas would then remain in the pockets of the citizens of our country, not in the bills of lawyers or in the accounts of the state for paying excess court costs because of the ignorance of one of the participants in the judicial process. As measures of a normative nature, the Croatian People's Party is proposing a reform of the criminal proceedings in the direction of the suspension of the judicial investigation and the introduction of a prosecutor's investigation. With this measure, a mechanism should be established to prevent court practice from obtaining one punishment for a similar offence at one end of Croatia, and even three times bigger in another part, as a result, we must recognise some local powers and corruption. Reform of the litigation procedure, which should significantly limit the court's powers and transfer the burden of evidence to parties in the dispute. To organise a concentrated main debate with the inability to propose ex post evidence, to tighten the issue of procedural discipline, especially professional participants in the process, to oblige the court to make judgments within a reasonable period of time, the monitoring of judges' work must be conducted according to the principles of modern management. The roof judicial institutions must see that some dispute has been pulling back for 20 and more years and immediately take measures to stop such a judicial tape immediately, preferably someone and punish it. Further measures should be put in place to discourage unnecessary litigation, and measures should also be directed towards a country which does not lag behind where a legal obligation should be introduced to approve any case to which any ministry is involved. Gruntovnica should also not be part of the court, then it is a register in real estate, by joining Gruntovnica and Katastra, for example, by establishing a special independent service of Gruntovnica and Katastra, while further informing land books could greatly increase the efficiency of the work of land books. Procedural solutions must allow the second-degree court's right not to return cases to the first-degree court for a decision, but rather to decide itself if it considers the first-degree decision to be incorrect. Lawyer's tariffs must not be interest rates and must de-simulate years of litigation because the longer the process takes, the more they earn. They must evaluate the work towards the captains spent per case, not according to the value of the dispute or to the level of the suspended sentence. They can't and can't be our legal tariffs among the highest in Europe, as much as 10 to 15 times higher than the tariffs in Germany. Public notebook tariffs are also the subject of the anger of citizens of one interest with the need for average knowledge we have created a very lucrative monopoly which also causes an unwarranted set of legal protection. Some of these measures we believe will also be seen in changes to several judicial laws even during this session of the Parliament until 13.7. It should be said that all these measures, including the series of amendments proposed in this Law on Courts, are also looking for investment. The judiciary cannot be as Croatia's biggest problem and in the perception of the European Union and in the perception of our citizens to solve in state finances as the last hole in the playing field, so it happens that over the past 463 million kuna has been invested in the judiciary for the past 463 million kuna, how much a handball hall costs. The reform of the judiciary will not be resolved, and it is necessary, both for the sake of disappointed Croatian citizens and for the establishment of trust in the Croatian economy, which is a prerequisite for investment and better economic days. Finally, the Croatian People's Party club will support these changes in the Law on Courts because they make logical changes as a contribution to the overall reform of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11848	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11849	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would like to correct an incorrect allegation to an esteemed colleague, i.e. when he claimed that the Law on streamlining the network of municipal courts as first-degree courts is the first and most important backbone of judicial reform. That's not an exact quote. The reform of the judiciary has been a process that has lasted for many years and the rationalisation of the network of first-degree courts is only part of this reform of the judiciary within which there are much more demanding and more concrete measures that contain this reform of the judiciary. And just one more thing, all those institutes that the colleague was talking about are related to the provisions of the Law on Prosecution, they were just contained in the bill that was still under discussion at this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11850	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, so the rules that should indeed be adopted in terms of the necessity to amend those provisions which are primarily regulated and which relate to the organisation and functioning of the entire legal system of the Republic of Croatia, and mainly to the implementation of the initial process of rationalising the network of municipal courts as first-degree courts. It is also intended to support new legal solutions that regulate relations between judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, which follow the Council of the European Community regulations, and these regulations are listed as documents in the light of this Regulation and refer to the following elements. Therefore, firstly to the recognition and enforcement of foreign court decisions and to the jurisdiction of courts to carry out international legal aid operations. Therefore, assumptions are being made, not only for the recognition and enforcement of decisions in civil and commercial matters, but also in status matters, therefore matters of family law and parental responsibility. It is certainly necessary to mention those provisions of the law relating to the development of a system of support for witnesses and victims of criminal offences, which we have had the opportunity to hear in previous discussions, because despite the fact that the issue of the situation of victims of criminal offences should be detailedly regulated by the Criminal Procedure Act, this regulation proposes extending the jurisdiction of the county courts to carry out and support witnesses and victims of criminal offences, on the one hand, and on the other hand to carry out international legal aid tasks under their jurisdiction. In this regard, it is proposed, therefore, that the county courts have a new organisational unit and that organisation unit should be called or proposed to be called the Witness and Victims Support Department. The provisions of the law which will enable the provision of direct communication by the judicial authorities within the European Union, which relate to applicants, legal assistance in criminal matters, and the receipt of the execution of the European arrest warrant, as well as the warrant for the provision of property and goods, are also very important. Therefore, this very regulation gives rise to the basic assumptions that the Republic of Croatia is operating in the European judicial system as an integral part of it, as part of the functioning of the joint judicial institutions of the European Union, whose component it becomes. It is also to welcome those provisions that open the possibility of including judicial officials, but not only them but also judicial officers and deputies and officials of the prison system in projects or civil missions programmes. This is also how the Republic of Croatia is involved, and it is particularly important to note in cooperation mechanisms within the framework of European security and defence policy. Other or remaining amendments to the law itself refer to the following legal institutes. The first to mention is, therefore, how the judicial councils vote, and in particular when adopting an opinion on candidates for senior judicial authorities, that is the opinion that is necessary in the context of the decision-making process in order to make that decision in a valid and legal manner. In fact, the current practice of the Judicial Councils was to decide at the sittings by a secret vote. Thus, it allowed not only lobbying but also invalid ballots in such procedures and such votes, which are related to the nature of the institutions themselves and to the judicial duty as a profession and in these procedures are indeed unacceptable and to welcome such a solution. The second institute that would mention here is a requirement for the uniform application of the law, that is, the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, in relation to an extraordinary remedy, so the revision as an extraordinary legal remedy, but so that it is not governed by this law but by the Law on a litigation procedure, and when I was a little earlier correcting the incorrect claim of an esteemed colleague, then I was just thinking that the revision as an extraordinary remedy is precisely in the proposed sense of amending the Law on a litigation procedure that we have received on the benches in terms of the adoption of that regulation already at this assembly session, so it is elaborated, elaborated as the Institute of Audits and Things that are being touched by this regulation, in fact, in a direct and indirect manner, will be governed by the Law on a judicial procedure. And now, in this law, we have a situation that, of course, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, within its constitutional jurisdiction, has also established general positions to ensure the uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens and equality of all before the law in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. By deleting this provision from this law, therefore, the Court Act as an Institute of Audit or an extraordinary legal remedy is governed by the Law on a litigation procedure in such a way that the reasons for the declaration of a review, the review as an extraordinary remedy, may not apply only or be declared when the value of the disputed part of the judgment is passed by 100 thousand kuna in working disputes, but also in cases, or in cases, that the parties may submit a review against a second-degree ruling if the decision in the dispute depends on the resolution of a material legal or procedural legal issue relevant for ensuring the uniform application of the law and equality of citizens. Furthermore, the provisions relating to the obligation to file a property card, so the property cards of each judge as a judicial official, we have therefore not long since changed the provisions of this law where we introduced the obligation to increase the property card for all judges. However, in order to support these data, situations have been observed whether individual judges or not to update the property card, or are incompletely tamper with the fact that it is an absolutely unacceptable situation in view of the explicit provision of the law. Therefore, by welcoming this institute, it can indeed be proposed, based on a reasoned proposal, to consider until the second reading the possibility that the minister responsible for the judiciary in such situations, so that the non-compliance with the legal provisions should be initiated against such judges or those judges, which would certainly have the character of disciplinary proceedings in those situations where these judges would not comply with the provisions of the Law on Courts in the sense of filling out property cards, so to publicly support information about their property. Furthermore, it is very important that a provision that regulates the status of judges in terms of their ability to move about the abolition or reshuffle of the courts themselves as a process that will certainly begin in the Republic of Croatia very soon. Here, however, I particularly stress that constitutional provisions should be taken into account, therefore constitutional provisions which are directly and congent in nature which directly regulate this matter and of course the law must comply with these constitutional provisions. In the light of the provisions of Article 122, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in paragraph 5 literally or directly states that the judge cannot be moved, so he cannot be relocated against his will except in two situations, which is a situation where the court is suspended or the court is reshuffled. We therefore warn the promoter that it would really be necessary for the provisions of the laws relating to this matter not only in terms of expression or expression but also in any other sense to comply with the provisions, constitutional provisions, so that we do not have a problem with certain provisions of the Law on Courts being in conflict with constitutional provisions. Since it is the first reading, there is absolutely no time and way to further develop this institute. And final. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this bill and, of course, with these remarks that these institutions that need to be harmonised with the provisions of the Constitution are once again proposed to consider them and to propose appropriate solutions in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11852	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11853	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. In order to comply with the rules of the Republic of Croatia governing the organisation and functioning of the judicial system with the regulations of the European Union, we need to make certain amendments to the Law on Courts, which is what we are doing here. In addition to harmonising this law with the regulations of the European Union, the additional reason for this is the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts to which provisions or certain provisions of this Act will also apply. The HSS Club supports these coordinations because greater harmonisation and enforcement of legal property in the field of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters is achieved because these amendments and additions to the Law on Courts are incorporated into the contents of the six Regulations of the Council of Europe. By signing the project to support victims of criminal offences as well as by implementing negotiating chapters 24. - Security, freedom and justice, the Ministry of Justice has taken over the obligation to establish the rules on the rights of witnesses and victims in the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as in the Law on Courts. Therefore, this law also proposes solutions to supplement the jurisdiction of the County Courts by implementing these courts and supporting witnesses and victims in court and performing international assistance tasks in the proceedings under their jurisdiction. In order for these affairs in the affairs of the judicial administration to be successfully done, it is proposed to set up an insurance and support department for witnesses and victims in court proceedings within the framework of the county courts, which we believe will certainly contribute to the more successful work of the county courts. We also see certain obligations to be made and appropriate adjustments in order to comply with the Council of Europe Decision concerning the arrest warrant and surrender procedures between Member States, as well as the Decision on the execution of the order for the provision of property or evidence in the European Union. As a good solution, we consider the provision of direct communication with judicial authorities within the European Union where a system is established in county courts as central authorities for receiving or sending legal aid applications in criminal matters. We also support solutions that allow the Republic of Croatia to be involved in cooperation mechanisms within the framework of European security and defence policy because it enables the involvement of judicial officials, as well as judicial officers and deputies in peacekeeping missions. The HSS Club also supports the proposed amendments to this law relating to the vote of the Judicial Councils, where it moves from a secret vote to a public vote, thus avoiding various lobbying, but we also believe that we will improve decision-making faster. The particularisation of Article 97 of this Act relating to the provision of complete and accurate data on property and the property of a spouse and minor children equates judges with state officials and we largely believe that they will change public perception of judicial corruption. The sanctioning of non-implementation of Article 97 is also a step forward in equating judicial officials with other officials. The timely solutions to these amendments also allow for the implementation of the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts in our procedure of the Assembly and the opinion that solutions to the duties of the President of the Court in case of merger of the Courts are also good and acceptable solutions. We also point to good solutions and care for officials and tenants in the courts that are connected because this solution ensures them to continue their working relationship in accordance with the Law on civil servants. From all of this above, the HSS supports amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11854	Thank you. And now we're going to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11855	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the introduction, I would like to stress that the amendment and addition of the Law on Courts should be supported for several important reasons. First, the proposed amendments and additions bring about compliance with the acquis in the field of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters in such a way that relevant regulations of the Council of Europe are incorporated into the Law on Courts. Secondly, the jurisdiction of the county courts is complemented by the way that county courts support witnesses and victims in court and carry out international assistance tasks in the affairs of their jurisdiction. It is also proposed that a department of support for witnesses, victims in court proceedings be established in the affairs of the judicial administration of the county courts. This proposal is in line with the project "Sacrifice Support for Crimes", as well as the framework of negotiations for full membership in the European Union. The Republic of Croatia must adapt its legislation in a way that ensures support for witnesses and victims in criminal proceedings. In addition, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to joining the full membership of the European Union to establish a system in county courts for receiving and sending legal aid applications in criminal matters, receiving and executing arrest warrants and warrants for the provision of property. Third, the protection of the right to trial shall be complemented within a reasonable period of time in such a way as to ensure that the procedure for the protection of the right to trial is implemented within a reasonable period of time, with the appropriate application of the rules on extra-party proceedings, as a rule without holding the hearing. Fourthly, newspapers are proposed in the work of the judicial councils. The Justice Council, as we know, has so far decided at their meetings by a secret vote of all members. However, in the direction of transparent treatment, it is proposed that the judge in the sittings decide by a public vote. Fifthly, it is proposed to completely delete Article 59. The law on courts prescribed when Courts II. the extent of the different decisions on the same fact and legal matter, and no exceptional legal remedy is allowed for a State lawyer and party to apply for a uniform application of the law to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to examine whether such decisions endanger the uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. This provision shall be deleted in full, as this issue will be regulated by the draft Law on Procedural Procedure, the liberalisation of the extraordinary legal remedy audit. We will soon have here in this assembly and a proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the Law on litigation. The sixth, in addition to Article 105 of the Law, which prescribes that the judge may also be referred to international missions, and certainly the specific Regulation lays down the conditions for sending a judge to an international mission and an international court. Seven, it is proposed to initiate a suspension procedure for payment to a judge who does not provide accurate information on his or her property, on the property of a spouse and minor children. If the judge does not provide the necessary information in time, the Justice Department will invite him to submit the requested information within 15 days. If it fails to provide information within that period, the Ministry of Justice will inform the President of the Court of Justice in order to initiate the procedure in order to suspend payment to the judge. And on the eighth floor, the motion states that the presidents of the courts are to be suspended from the office of the President of the Court when it comes to the merger of the courts. In that case, the minister of justice will authorise one of these courts or the judge of a higher court, that during a time that cannot be longer than one year, he does the affairs of the judicial administration until the president of the joint court is appointed. It is also prescribed that officials and substitutes of merger courts shall be deployed in accordance with the Law on civil servants. In addition to being in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, the highlighted newspapers consist of other significant amendments and additions, such as the addition of the jurisdiction of certain types of courts, the newspapers regarding the right to trial within a proportionate period, the unification of judicial practice, the work of the judicial councils, the responsibilities of judges with regard to the application of property, the reference to work on international missions, I am sure that the proposed amendments will improve the existing provisions of the Law on Courts. I therefore support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11856	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11857	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State respect and colleague. We have before us an amendment to the law which, in short lines, could say that we are doing a few steps in agreeing with the law with the European Union, then in the reform of the judiciary itself and then in regulating the necessary areas which are not or are inadequately regulated in view of the implementation of the rationalisation of the network of courts. These amendments, which are adapted and proposed, are in fact in line with the Council of Europe regulations and in three areas. The competent authorities of recognition and enforcement of decisions of civil trade courts in cooperation between countries in carrying out evidence in civil and commercial matters, in the responsibility of recognition and enforcement of decisions in married and parental liability matters. Furthermore, this amendment of the law also contains a significant provision on the protection of the right to trial within a divergence period, in such a way that the urgency of the proceedings arises by applying the rules on extra-party procedure, i.e. enhanced application, with a rule without maintaining the rules of public debate, and by shortening the time limit for appeal from 15 to 8 days. The obligation already mentioned by the county courts to establish and ensure that witnesses and victims of criminal offences are provided and that international legal assistance is done to contribute to international co-operation, as well as to the special protection of these endangered persons, primarily witnesses and victims. The press in these provisions is also public decision-making in the Judicial Councils, so as in some other areas of activity, where it has long been arranged, it is in some way forced for members of the council to give their opinion publicly and not to suffer indecision in that decision, and this is also a contribution to this transparent manner of declaration. The law excludes the Institute of Equality of Judicial Practice, i.e. the procedure itself, as it is compensated by the draft Law on the Procedural Procedure in such a way as to achieve the right of equality in all disputes for the unification of case-law rather than at court sessions. One special newspaper contributes to quality control of the work of judges. In particular, a provision that prescribed the introduction of information on the penalties imposed by law in the judge's records. It shall also be introduced to deliver to the Judicial Council the obligation to provide judicial assessments to the State Judicial Council in the case of appointments, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, where the judge is appointed to another court or when appointed on a permanent basis. This law also contains certain anti-corruption acts that were also mentioned. However, the point is that there is no more silence, that is, non-compliance with the provision in a way that is not delivered, that the judge does not supply information about his property, the property of his or her spouse and the property of his or her underage children, but is now called through the Ministry not to deliver within 30 days, is given an additional period of 15 days that the same data must be delivered. Otherwise, he's being punished by suspending his payday. Second court schedule. It is an area which, as I have now had the opportunity to see arranged by the Constitution and in some ways, restricts the flexibility of migration, but this law and clearly complies with the Constitution and allows for the transition to another court but with precisely clear criteria, with the consent of the judge of one court, another court and ultimately the consent of the judge himself. The merger of courts is provided for in a way to ensure the employment of both judges and officials and even some kind of transitional period for the Presidents of the Courts, in a way that the Presidents of the Courts between, or between, the Judges of one and the other Court of Justice, who are to be appointed by the interim President of the Court of Justice for up to one year, until the appointment is conducted on a regular basis. The protection of employees is also provided for in the manner and conditions under the Civil Service Act, which guarantees their safety. This law does not regulate the merger of infringement courts, so the area remains to be regulated. Of course, I support this law with suggestions, because for the efficiency of the judiciary regardless of the area of debate this or what will follow in the litigation procedure, it is possible that for the speed of the trial I think it is the goal, it would be good and in the litigation procedure to predict that a mandatory response to the suit was introduced, but now it should introduce a mandatory indication of the answer to the suit before the main debate begins. In practice, it is the main problem that arises now that we have resolved the previous amendments that the answer to the complaint must be obtained but then an additional deadline is given in court and thus delays the procedure, which is immediately given in the debate by a new deadline for the answer, for an indication of the answer to the complaint. It would therefore be recommended that both of them be made manifest so that with all the evidence, the judge can already proceed to the main debate and strengthen the efficiency of the court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11858	Thank you. And distinguished representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11859	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here we have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Courts, so that is the law as well as a series of other laws we are discussing these days or we will discuss from a group of legislative measures set out in the draft plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2008. This law, in line with the acquis and legal acts of the Council of Europe, regulates issues relating to both the functioning and the establishment of courts. So I'm going to refer to some of them. Although the current Law on Courts has implemented many provisions of the relevant Council of Europe regulations relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters, these amendments and additions will achieve full consistency in both civil and criminal matters. First of all, the system of support for witnesses and victims of criminal offences continues to develop in such a way as to place in the jurisdiction of the county courts the implementation and support of witnesses and victims in court. This is also an obligation arising from Chapter 24. Security, freedom and justice of negotiations for accession to the European Union. The jurisdiction of the county courts is also proposed to be complemented by international legal aid operations in criminal proceedings. In view of the need to comply with the judicial authorities of the European Union, it is proposed that in the county courts, in the framework of the judicial administration, the establishment of a legal aid application system, and the sending, receipt and execution of a European arrest warrant and a warrant for the provision of property and evidence. This is proposed by setting up a support department for witnesses and victims in court proceedings. This law also complies with international obligations under European security and defence policy and obligations under Chapter 31. Foreign security and defence policy is laid down in Article 105, with the possibility of referencing judges to certain duties in international courts and the possibility of sending them to international missions. The Minister of Justice will provide for specific conditions under which such reference will be possible and enforceable. In order to improve the law, some more amendments and additions are proposed. Thus, among other things, it is proposed to make the decision-making process more transparent in relation to the practice so far. It shall also be intervened in the provisions of Article 21 relating to the jurisdiction of a high criminal court by removing a certain contradiction to the provisions of the Law on Courts and to the infringement law on decision-making of appeals, the decisions of criminal courts and the body of the state administration in the first instance. It is also proposed to delete the decision on requests for the exemption of the President of the Court of Justice, given that the infringement law provides for a different regulation on the exemption of the President of the Criminal Court. In addition, point four is aligned with an infringement law no longer known to the exceptional legal remedy, a request for an extraordinary review of the legal solutions to the infringement, in such a way that the proposed amendment avoids the name of the establishment of legal medicines regardless of the amendments to the laws prescribed by the type of exceptional legal medicinal products. It is proposed to delete Article 59 which prescribes that the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in a study of the possible threat to the uniform application of the law when courts of the second degree make different decisions on the same factual and legal matter because this issue will be resolved by the draft law on litigation of an extraordinary legal remedy. I will also look at a dream proposal related to the current rationalisation of the network of courts implemented through the Law on Areas and Courts, and these days will be found in a second reading here in the Parliament. Namely, when due to the merger of courts, the current presidents cease to carry out this duty, the minister of justice will authorise the judge of one of these courts or the judge of the higher court to set a time and for the longest year to carry out the affairs of the judicial administration until he is appointed president of that... Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, I would like to point to the position of the Association of Croatian Judges, who, through his proposals and remarks, refers to this law. In particular, the comments on those solutions they consider to be contrary to the Constitution. I am convinced that the proposer will make them until the second reading, and we have plenty of time to consider and respect all proposals that can contribute to the quality of this law. For these reasons, I will support the passage of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11860	Thank you very much. This is what we've exhausted all those reported for discussion. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11861	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the discussion. The fact is that by implementing the justice reform strategies, the government has achieved good results. I'll only mention two. The number of pending cases has been reduced by 41%. And in digital form, 98% of land-book cartridges are copied and are available on the Internet. It therefore continues to be intensive with the implementation of measures as well as with proposals for amending procedural rules in order to speed up civil and criminal proceedings. I must also say that the system of support for witnesses and victims of criminal offences as a pilot project is being implemented in county courts in Vukovar, Osijek, Zadar and the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb. The proposed amendments to this law are only a continuation of reforms. I therefore once again thank you for the proposals and remarks that we will consider and prepare for the proposal, the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11862	Thank you very much. And allow me, this is where we closed the debate. The vote will be when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11863	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 90. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. 1, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts and 2 shall be adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Let's get involved and vote who hasn't voted. I'm asking for a result. The proposed conclusion was accepted by most votes, 92 votes to four abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11864	- Final proposal of the law on the designation of origin, geographical indications and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. We've got 95. He's in an emergency procedure. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. The motion for an act was in the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure, unites the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. It's a postman. The debate was conducted by committees: Committee on legislation, Committee on European Integration, Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. We also received a report from the board. Would the applicant's representative like to give an introductory explanation? This is Secretary of State Mr. Stephen Mikolcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11865	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is another one in a series of laws that harmonizes our legislation with the acquis of the European Union. Before the adoption of the 2003 Food Act, the way in which products and services were acquired, the protection and exercise of rights in the use of the geographical indication and the designation of origin of food was regulated by the Law on the designations of geographical origin of products and services of 1999 which was in the jurisdiction of the State Institute of Intellectual Property. By adopting the Food Act, the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and Rural Development becomes the competent authority with regard to the food tags mentioned but also with regard to the new designations of traditional reputation mentioned in the Republic of Croatia for the first time in 2003. In accordance with the procedure which was in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Institute of Intellectual Property, 7 names of food products are registered and 5 with the designation of origin. And these are: Istrian prosciutto, olive oil called "Torkul", Cetin cheese, drjski prosciutto, paška baskotine. And two with geographical indication: paška cheese and Slavonic homemade tower. All of these markings must restore their protection in accordance with the new procedure which is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Currently, in the Republic of Croatia, the area of origin, geographical indication and the designation of traditional reputation is regulated through several legal and sublegal acts. For food and agricultural products intended for human consumption, the 2007 Food Act and the rules adopted under the old 2003 Food Act are those: the Regulation on designations of origin, the labelling of the geographical origin of the food from 2005 and its amendments and additions from 2007. And the Regulation on the recognition of specific food characteristics and the award of the traditional reputation of 2005. The protection, designation of origin, geographical indication and the designation of traditional reputation is a form of intellectual property rights which is not used enough in the Republic of Croatia, although it could thus be incorporated into products that are characterized by special quality. Almost all Croatian regions are known for some of the products that have a unique recipe and each of them is in many stories about rich tradition, experience and exceptional climate and life and the customs of numerous generations of Croatian families. It is therefore unquestionable that such economic and marketing potential must be used more through the aforementioned protection systems and for the purpose of enriching the market and tourism offers. In addition, the promotion of the production of protected indigenous products and their promotion could significantly contribute to the rural economy, especially in areas with less opportunities or remote areas, in such a way that I also have an impact on the increase in income for these economies, and the retention of rural populations in these areas. The basis of the issues to be regulated in this law is the process of protecting the designation of origin and geographical origin, i.e. the designation of traditional reputation at national level, and also at European Union level. Furthermore, official controls and the determination of compliance with the product specification which has not been prescribed by the current legislation shall be regulated. Furthermore, the provisions of the proposed law allow manufacturers in the Republic of Croatia the same protection for products that producers in the European Union and their market visibility. This creates an indirect achievement of one of the priority objectives of Croatian agricultural policy, which is to raise the level of competitiveness of domestic agricultural production. According to the 2008 National Programme of Accession of the European Union, the adoption of this law in the second quarter is envisaged, and I therefore propose, on behalf of the proposing, its adoption by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11866	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Do individual committee rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. If not, then we move on to a debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, the distinguished parliamentary representative, Mr Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community strongly supports the adoption of this law, as it also creates assumptions not only for the protection of indigenous products in accordance with the procedures and legislation of the European Union, but also for establishing a system of administrative and inspection supervision which should protect standards of quality of indigenous products on the one hand, while on the other hand protecting domestic production and preventing imports or production of products which are not made according to the specification. But because of the false declaration and the use of protected names, they led consumers astray. A few years ago, we had a case of attempts to import and distribute products called Istrian prosciutto from Slovenia, that the Istrian prosciutto was not protected under the old regulations. Therefore, in the Republic of Croatia, the geographical indications of the inspection could not react. Therefore, in this case the Istrian prosciutto was protected and according to the rules of protection of the geographical indication it may only be produced in Istria and only in the manner described and protected in the specification for obtaining the geographical protection mark. Therefore, this law is extremely important to us to protect the domestic market, to protect our and consumers from false declarations, but also our domestic production of indigenous products. Today, on the market, we meet educated consumers, consumers who have knowledge of both nutrition and protection properties of food and are also growing requirements for product health. Consumer purchasing power has been increased. All this has affected the demand for traditional, hence indigenous products and organically produced food products. The consumption of exotic food related to a particular climate, the way of life, the food that has its own story and its history and tradition is increasingly attracting consumers to greater purchasing power in the European Union. The European Union attaches great importance to the production of traditional products. Agricultural powers such as France, Germany, Italy, Spain have protected every country almost 100 or 150 indigenous traditional products. All these products bear protection codes which are known for the whole of the European Union and those products after the protected price has almost doubled. These products are priced, but above all, because the customer knows when to buy a protected product to stand behind it standard and quality, that there is continued quality control behind it and that there are also health standards and continued supervision. These countries have clearly understood what it means to protect indigenous products. We believe that it is especially important to protect domestic and indigenous products today when we enter the euro of the Atlantic Association, because this is how we protect both our national identity and our way of life, our tradition and our culture. Autochton products best speak of customs, history and tradition and the way of life of a nation in one space. It should also be borne in mind that precisely indigenous production is related to the rural environment and that it is a kind of resistance and a response to aggressive globalisation, that it is a response to the philosophy and way of life of trade chains, fast and stressful lifestyle and fast food. How much of the countries of the European Union are best interested in protecting them speak about the major conflicts over certain products such as between Greece, Denmark, Germany regarding cheese feta or tokajac between Hungary and Slovakia. Also, the production of indigenous products and their protection are in line with the shift in the European Union's common agricultural policy, according to which the right family economy, farm and sustainable agricultural production are becoming the cornerstone of the European Union's agricultural policy. Due to its and its geographical and climate specificities from continental, Pannonian to Mediterranean Croatia, Croatia has a chance to protect a large number of traditional and indigenous products because of its rich tradition. So from different kinds of meat products, different kinds of cheeses. These products would therefore, with adequate protection, whether geographical origin, whether traditions, whether originality and after the establishment of a quality control system as set out in the European Union should become a significant export brand especially through a tourist offer. Under the old laws, the Republic of Croatia, as stated by the State Secretary, protected 9 products. So from the Istrian prosciutto through the Pag Baskotin, the Dingač, the Pag cheese to the Kulen and the old Slavonic plum, or Slavonic. Why is it important to pass this law? We have protected these products according to the old procedures, but they are not recognised as such in the European Union and therefore it is necessary to implement protection under this new law, under these new procedures, in order for these products to be able to bear the label, as well as all similar products in the European Union, and in order to be recognizable in the integrated market. It is particularly important that we go to protection and speed up protection at this time of negotiations with the European Commission, because during the negotiations we will also have to seek exceptions for certain productions so that it is imperative to work intensively on this. In the last few years and I have personally had the opportunity to visit these agricultural powers from France, Germany, Italy, Spain and what is certain, Croatia should not be ashamed, our products are excellent quality, but what we lack when we talk about both prosciuttos and cheeses and the tower is then a problem of unstandardized quality and then it is a problem of insufficient production of indigenous production of indigenous products to be able to continuously supply the market. Therefore, it is essential to work on the association of producers in order to increase capacity, but also to protect products and to preserve quality standards and continuously monitor them. Consumers are looking for products that are always standard quality and also products that are continuously supplied to the market, so neither seasonal oscillation nor shortages are allowed. What else does protection bring to our producers? It brings a higher price and higher income in the production of these products, a higher profit and also visibility across the European Union market, and also protection against market fraud, as I mentioned in the example of the Istrian prosciutto that came from Slovenia. These products with protection markings that also EU tourists should become an export brand through a stoist offer. It should be made clear that we have a chance to make world brands out of indigenous products, but it should also be warned to all those who survive this protection process that it is a short-term calculation, that the right of production must enter the legal system of business and trade, not only in order for the state to collect taxes, but above all to prevent unfair competition among the producers themselves and so that these established quality standards can be systematically and permanently monitored, and that these products, once they enter the legal system, are then under veterinary and health supervision, which is extremely important. So, we have a situation here, this has been shown in these kitchen evaluations, for example, that the towers are made by unstandardized technology, that you have a situation that is made of the same meatloaf, so the same hermit of the same manufacturer to get 3, 4 different towers. Also, very few of these manufacturers can supply a more serious restaurant, and we also do not talk if it is not in the legal system of trade, which means for veterinary health supervision because especially, here is when these meat products are then we know what Trichinella means, which means staying disabled for life, so if these products are not in the legal trading system. And that is why I say, I call on all and the producers to understand what the system of protection means, but also to enter the legal system because it is primarily their protection, and then our consumers' protection. If we have over a thousand products protected throughout the European Union, then it must clearly be the interest of our producers. This law, therefore, should make this whole procedure and the protection procedure more effective, therefore, and close to the producers themselves. Manufacturers must be associated, one of the conditions for the product to be protected must be a producer association, therefore all actively participate in this protection process. The state should also, as so far, make maximum efforts to encourage this production through various measures and activities. This is part of the overall rural development policy, hence the sustainable development of these environments, thus ensuring greater income for our producers, and on the other hand what we said, we protect our national identity, we protect our tradition and culture. It should also continue to work on marketing preparation programmes for agricultural and food products, and in addition to this existing operational programme for the production of Slavonian cuisine, other programmes such as prosciutto programmes, for cheeses, should also be developed to encourage our producers, to stimulate our producers to produce higher production and better quality production. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law and we are convinced that it is a strong contribution to the protection of our products, our national identity and that it will contribute to making these products a strong and recognizable Croatian brand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11868	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished colleague Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11869	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me give this bill a review that certainly goes in order for this law to have its meaning and that it should be an incentive to this production of ours. However, when we look at the European quality policy of agricultural products, there is consistency because some Member States have already introduced their own rules before 1992 to encourage and protect specific names of food products. The protection of food producers from other people’s attempts to benefit from the reputation of their products was also rightly caused by the concern of these producers and all of this led to the creation of certain protection mechanisms. This required that a uniform approach be created in establishing fair relations and conditions of competition with retention, which is very important in the quality of these products. It is also this proposal for a law on designations of origin, geographical indications and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products, with the final proposal for a law, is broadly in line with the regulations of the Council of the European Community of 510/2006. and 509/2006, as well as with Commission Regulations of the European Community, in that part relating to the Annexes. But the issue of translation itself is one thing, and the other question is what needs to be brought into line with European provisions. What I think is that the law should play a key role in improving the properties of high quality in us a possible wide range of products that have a culinary tradition of our areas from Slavonia to the sea. I think he's a professor. Kovacevic talked a lot about it already. The law must also enable manufacturers to take advantage of the advantages they have in a qualitative sense and to obtain a reputation that is provided and outside the area where they are produced. So our Slavonic tower, or cuisine, as spoken, is normally in our interest not only to eat it in Slavonia but also to eat on the Adriatic, to be eaten by tourists who are coming and to be known as an export recognizable product. However, it is normal for such products to be found in the situation and market competition with products under the same name to be falsely represented as original products, and that this can also discourage the manufacturer, because if there is something on the market called the Slavonian tower and it is not and its price is being destroyed, normally it can discourage manufacturers, but what may be even worse, allows consumers to be confused. So it is certainly important for this law to be as high as possible and to enable our producers to point out, place it on our market, so we believe that it should also be on the European Union market, but also as protected products. To date, that is said, according to the existing procedure we have registered seven names of food products, we said five with the designation of origin, two with the designation of geographical origin. However, the adoption of this law will also require these products to pass a renewed procedure that will be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Therefore, the question of what makes up the quality of the product can also be subjective especially when it comes to food. Usually, the qualitative properties to be taken into account with the basic prerequisite of the hygienic-sanitary method of production and taste have special properties in these products. Here we are also talking about the geographical origin of the product, whether it is on mountainous or low-lying production, whether it is an animal species, of which it is animal species, of the way it is produced, or of the breeding of that animal. Then the use of special ingredients in production, and also as significant, is the question of how it is processed, how it is prepared, how we present it and how we label it. All this indicates that to create one quality product, and that it is both original or specific geographical origin, that it has a tradition, is certainly one complex and demanding job and such a product should certainly be protected. But that's why I have one question I'm asking, and it's about Chapter II. which speaks and refers to the protection of marks at the level of the Republic of Croatia. In Article 4 for the designation of origin and geographical indication other than the region and place of designation, we shall give both in exceptional cases and in the country of origin of the product. That part is simply copied from the pre-mentioned regulation and it makes sense there, but in national law I don't think it does unless the products with the designation are original and geographical we have no intention of working on imported raw materials, I don't know the cuisine, prosciutto. I think that would be bad, and that's why I don't know if it's necessary to put this in exceptional cases and on the ground of origin of the product. A particularly significant place in the law is also the need to adopt implementing acts. You can see that in this law, as regards implementing acts through almost all these implementing acts, there is a sign that they are prescribed by the Minister by means of a regulation, and that is, the list of the Ministers sets out the list of raw materials for the production of Article 4, the data contained in the specification of Article 6, the registration and the way in which Article 7, the conditions for the implementation of the registration, Article 9, the way in which the register is kept, Article 10, the way in which the registers are kept in Article 11, and yet there are, all of this should be further regulated by the implementing rules. The same applies to Chapter II. in respect of the designation of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products from Articles 19 to 32, implementing rules will lay down certain provisions relating to the designations of traditional reputation. However, there are currently two regulations, a Regulation on designations of origin and labelling of geographical origin of food "National Journal" No. 80/05. and Regulation on the recognition of the specific characteristics of food and the award of the "traditional reputation of the "National Journal" 12/05. which well regulates this area, and the Food Act in Articles 97 to 122, which also regulates the area at the level of the law. I just mentioned this that all this indicates that the adoption of this law should be fully covered by all the rules so far, with extensions to agricultural products that are not for human use. This is very little being said in this law, which is proposed rather than all being passed on to the responsibility of the Minister and the implementing rules. Therefore, the implementing rules to be adopted will be very significant and I do not think this good law should be broken by some poor implementing rules. I would also mention, in Chapter 4, one of the important issues is the inspection that needs to be carried out by the Ministry in charge of the quality of agricultural and food products. Professor Kovacevic spoke of the importance of a doctor of veterinary medicine in these affairs, so I have no need, although I am a veterinarian, to stress this, but I believe that in addition to the above, you have here in Article 39 that these tasks should be carried out by a graduated food technology engineer and agronomy. I believe that this article should be complemented by the fact that these tasks can also be performed by a doctor of veterinary medicine or a graduated veterinarian, in particular what samples should be done, in Article 46, it shall be written to carry accredited laboratories which, under Article 54, have to be carried out by 1.1.2009. According to my knowledge it's accredited, I think that's what the secretary of state said on the board, the Veterinary Institute, the Institute of Milk in the Cross. And this particular section and analysis are related to the veterinary profession as one of the most responsible. And for that reason, I will also give an amendment to this section to supplement this article 39 that the work can also be done by a doctor of veterinary medicine inspection work or by a veterinarian graduated. Finally, we need to pass the law, I certainly believe, along with this amendment, which I will submit, because the need for the adoption of implementing rules adopted by the minister has its deadlines. We're talking about a year here. I think that should be done before, because any such law without the accompanying regulations also causes misunderstandings, and errors in each segment of agricultural production and food products can also have inconceivable consequences in the credibility and our country, if this product goes outside into food production, into the world, and it is also growing and meaning that we get through the financial benefits. I think Professor Kovacevic spoke extensively about it. Finally, the certification body, in our case, is a commission set up again by the minister, should be accredited. It says here that this body must be accredited in accordance with the conditions of an appropriate Croatian standard. I think that it should be placed, that it should be accredited in accordance with European standards, because if we are already adopting such a European law, we should also take over this European definition and form a commission that meets European standards, because I think we will have to do so sooner or later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11870	Thank you very much. We've got another club to report. It's a HSS club. Dear Representative Stanko Grcic, because he keeps giving me signals to watch the clock and that we will be able to keep that promise to finish by noon. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11871	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I believe is that we're going to end a successful debate by the clubs, and so let me make a few points about the proposed law on behalf of the HSS Club. The preparation of Croatia for entry into the European Union certainly falls under the regulation of this problem relating to designations of origin, geographical indication and the designation of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products. Until now, the area of the designation of origin, the geographical indication and the designation of traditional reputation has been governed by the Food Act and the Regulation on designations of origin and geographical origin of food, as well as the Regulation on the recognition of specific characteristics of food and the designation of traditional reputation which have been in conformity with the Council Regulation of 14 July 1992. As both the European Union adopted new rules for the areas of the label at the end of 2006 and during 2007, and our current regulations are partly in line with the European Union's invalid regulations, there is a clear need to bring our regulations in line with those of the European Union. In addition, those rules apply exclusively to food while the relevant European Union rules apply to agricultural products not intended for human consumption, such as ornamental flowers and plants, cork, essential oils, etc. so it is understandable to mention agricultural products which are not intended for human consumption to be included in the legal framework that will regulate these issues. This also enables full harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union for the area of the indications mentioned. It is important to note that the European Union also places great emphasis on the control of the products with the mentioned tags, referring to the designation of origin, the designation of geographical origin and the designation of the traditional reputation of agricultural and food products, which was not possible to define in detail in the Food Act. Therefore, in this proposal for a law, a system of control, inspection and administrative oversight as well as a system of determining compliance with the specification is defined more closely. The control system is of paramount importance for the reasons that products bearing one of the product codes mentioned are products of higher quality and are therefore included in the higher price category. The purpose of the control is to verify whether protected products comply with specific processes in the production, processing and preparation of products for the market, physical, chemical, microbiological or organoleptic characteristics or all of the conditions specified in the product specification. According to the above, an adequate control system should be provided, and one of the objectives is to protect consumers themselves who are willing to pay a higher price for the mentioned products. We see a positive difference in the new European Union regulations relative to the old ones, which is the possibility of applying for registration of designations from third countries, referring to countries that are not members of the European Union, to the level of the European Union, and where those labels are protected in their countries as well. According to current regulations in the Republic of Croatia, this possibility is not envisaged, nor is it given to our producers that protection for their products protected at the level of Croatia can be achieved at European Union level. With positive assessments, I believe that certain provisions may need to be developed or suggested here, to consider certain remarks that we believe will be respected, because they greatly improve the law. First of all, we propose and I believe that there are certain ambiguities about the jurisdiction of agricultural inspection and food quality inspections, and economic inspections on the other hand in Articles 39 and 46, and we think that they should be clearly identified who is responsible for taking samples on the market and controlling their compliance with the specification. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I believe it is not a good solution in the Croatian case that prior to registration marks are carried out to determine compliance, as this way extends the time for registration of the label. Croatia should register as many tags as possible before entering the European Union, because when we enter the European Union, it will be much harder. Finally, most of the countries in the European Union have the prescribed harmonisation of compliance only during the duration of the registration mark, but not before the registration of the label. That programme should define what products in Croatia should be protected by designations of origin, geographical origin and traditional reputation. In fact, so far there has been no plan, so the budgets for the making of specifications have been disbursed, for a large number of products that have almost no economic significance and whose protection with those markings is not economically justified. We also believe that the direction of our country's development should be highlighted, which is that Croatia wants to position itself as a unique tourist destination, recognizable by numerous natural and cultural treasures, but also by experience, and we will agree that the consumption of our delicacies is certainly an unforgettable experience that should be protected and adequately valorised. We will all agree that Croatia is rich in natural resources, as well as products that are the fruit of nature and the work of valuable hands of our citizens. Each region of Croatia is specific to its natural beauty and is known for one of the products that have a unique recipe orally transmitted from generation to generation and which testifies to rich tradition, experience, unique customs and a specific climate. I believe that in an adequate way and at the right time we need to protect our property, and this bill that regulates this area can be perceived as an incentive to enrich the market and tourist offer, as a legal tool that contributes to the development of tourism, gives a special stamp and a deserved place for products from our climate. The HSS Club sees this proposal as a good solution and we advocate its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11872	Thank you very much. An honorary colleague stuck to the captain, and that's how we stick to yesterday's deal to work short today until noon. The club debate is over. At 9.30 a.m. Monday, we continue with a fragmented individual, including received applications, counterpart Dragutin Lesar, and counterpart Nevenka Marinovic, Dragan Vukic, continues to register. I'm closing today's session. Have a nice weekend. Whoever's going to Vienna, they're still coming. The rest of us in front of the TV fire with the fires, all good.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11873	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone a good morning. We continue the session at the agenda point that started on Friday, which is about the proposal for a law on designations of origin, geographical indications and marks of traditional reputation for agricultural and food products, with the final proposal for the law. The clubs are over. We have an individual discussion. First in line is Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11874	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. Government programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008/2011 in the area of agriculture, agriculture and food, the need to further strengthen the competitiveness of the products of this sector and to link it to the primary production of agricultural products and to use its own potential and to ensure domestic product, as well as to reduce imports and increase exports to the European and world markets, given the strategic importance of the food industry in the Republic of Croatia. We also have further harmonisation of Croatian legislation for the area of protection of indigenous agricultural and food products with the legislation of the European Union, as well as the implementation of the registration and designation of origin, the geographical indications and the traditional reputation of agricultural and food products. It is precisely this bill that combines these two measures from the Government of Croatia programme. What is the situation today in the Republic of Croatia. So we have registered in this area seven names of food products, five with a sign of originality, these are Istrian prosciutto, torkul olive oil, cetin cheese, držajski prosciutto and paška baskotine and two with geographical origin, that is paška cheese and Slavonic cuisine, i.e. the tower. The registration was in the jurisdiction of the State Intellectual Property Office. The area, designation of origin, geographical indication and the designation of traditional reputation is regulated through several laws and sublaws. For food and agricultural products intended for human consumption, the Food Act of 2007 applies and the rules, meaning the Regulation on designations of origin, the rules on geographical origin and the recognition of specific characteristics of food and the designation of traditional reputation have been adopted by the old Food Act but are still in force. Although the Regulation on designations of origin was almost fully in line with European Union rules, the Commission adopted a series of new regulations and decisions. This Regulation applies exclusively to food and does not apply to other agricultural products, such as flowers, decoration plants, floating essential oils. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Regulation on the recognition of specific food characteristics and the award of the traditional reputation mark was fully in line with European regulations. However, in 2006 the European Union adopted new regulations and implementing acts. So this Regulation also requires additional harmonisation. This proposal therefore regulates the procedure for the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications of agricultural and food products at national level. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is also the procedure for the adoption of applications for the registration of traditional reputations at European Union level. It also detailed the official controls, the proposition, meaning official controls and the determination of compliance with the product specification. The reasons for the adoption of this law are therefore, meaning to comply with the new regulations, these are two new Council Regulations and two Commission Regulations, but also better harmonisation with the relevant European Union regulations, since the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union are under way in the field of policy and quality, which includes the area of labels. Then, the extension of the legal framework for protection and to agricultural products that are not exclusively intended for human consumption. But I don't think this is the only reason why I'm making this law is because I see the real reasons in our great untapped possibilities right here in this area. The protection, designation of origin, geographical indication and the designation of traditional reputation, as a form of intellectual property right, is not sufficiently used. In particular, the possibility to build additional values in products with special quality is not sufficiently used. All Croatian counties are known for a product that has a unique recipe and each one is a story of rich tradition and experience, life, customs, numerous generations of Croatian families. I'm going to tell a story about a Pag garden that's registered as one of the rare products with a designation of origin. And he's really talking about rich tradition, experience, unique recipe, unique taste, as well as guardians. Sisters of Benedictine from the monastery of St. Margarite in Pag, the spring of the Pag lace for three centuries has been continuously produced by paška baskotine, a special type of hard pastry. The 300 - year - old recipe never went beyond the walls of the monastery, but the baskotin has made many feel better, and many have enjoyed the taste of this heritage. The Paška bascotine shall have the properties of an immaterial-cultural good within the meaning of Article 9(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods. According to the criteria for the explanation of the immaterial-cultural good pasa baskotin is the work of a creative human genius. It's interesting but also instructive to observe, here's the story of how food, we usually say, is not usually but a particularly valuable hard pastry turning into a cultural good with useful, exchange and identity values and becoming a means of creating social distinctions. I'm sure colleagues and colleagues could bring a story like this or a similar story from your neighborhood. Maybe not with this tradition and the guards, but I'm sure there are far, far more than they are registered with designations of originality today in the Republic of Croatia. So let my debate today be an incentive to at least extract some of the heritage, register and protect which will enrich the offer of both the market and tourism and bring proudly into the heritage of the European Union. This bill ensures it and I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11875	Thank you. It is Mr Dragan Vukic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11876	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the proposal for a law on designations of origin, geographical indications and the designation of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products with the final proposal of the law. It is known that there is great competition on the international market for food placement. In this fight for competitiveness, the price of indigenous products or products whose specific characteristics are derived from the value of their ingredients, their production and processing methods and the climate from which they come. Today's tourists are mostly looking for simple, natural and specific dishes characteristic of a country, a region or a catering facility itself. Croatia can compete very successfully on the European market in quality, diversity and the offer of domestic food products and specific dishes served in the original form because of its specific geographical location and natural possibilities. In 1992, the European Union created systems for the protection and promotion of the value of specific agricultural and food products with the designation of origin and geographical origin and systems for the protection of the traditional reputation of agricultural and food products. The Commission therefore concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Since 1992, 760 names of agricultural and food products have been protected in the European Union, namely: 744 with designation of origin or geographical origin and 16 names marked with traditional reputation. Italy has the most protected names with the European Commission, 158. France 154, Spain and Portugal 104, Greece 84, Germany 67. Of the new members of the Czech Republic, there are 6 while Hungary, Poland and Slovakia do not have a single protected name for the food product. The designations of origin of geographical origin and the traditional reputation of food do not only mean the protection of origin but food products must also have certain, precisely defined characteristics which link them to the label... that he's wearing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This system allows any form of protected name to be subject to control which has the task of verifying that the protected product complies with specific processes in the production, processing and preparation of the product for the market. Physical, chemical, microbiological and organoleptic characteristics. Incentives of such production or of such products having specific characteristics may significantly contribute to the rural economy, in particular areas with fewer opportunities or in remote rural areas, which increases the public's hope of staying in that area. To date in the Republic of Croatia, this area has been regulated by several laws and regulations, such as: the 1999 Code of Geographical Origin of Products and Services, the 2003 Food Act, the Code of Geographical Origin and the designations of origin of products and services. Almost every Croatian area is known for some of the indigenous products that have a unique recipe and each of them is in their own way a story about rich tradition, experience, exceptional climate and life and the customs of many Croatian people. The demand on the market of these products encourages manufacturers to produce these products more actively. The first registered food is the Slavonic tower in 1997, paška cheese in 1999, držnik prosciutto in 2003, Istrian in 2002, baskotin dupek in 2004. Torkul extra virgin olive oil is the first oil marked with originality in the Republic of Croatia. You should mention Dingach and the old Slavonic plum. Registration of all these products was carried out at the Institute of Intellectual Property of the Republic of Croatia, and by passing the laws and regulations mentioned earlier these products have found their protection in the above mentioned... Following the adoption of the Food Law in 2003, a number of new rules have been adopted in the European Union which regulate the area governed by the Food Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the Republic of Croatia, due to climate and geographical diversity and rich culture and tradition, there are a large number of products that should be protected by technological, food and organoleptic specificities as indigenous to traditional reputation, geographical origin or originality. In addition to adequate protection and the establishment of a model system for the European Union, these products should become a significant export brand especially through a tourist offer. Since the protection of indigenous food products in line with the European food, the EU rules are a very demanding and complex procedure for producers in the Resort Ministry should be further encouraged and assisted by manufacturers and educated. This law has 57 articles and, of course, each is equally important. But I will only comment on Article 7. Among other things, he says that the application for registration has the right to submit only a group, which in this case means a group of producers or processors and which is good because in this way producers will have to join and will therefore be stronger on the market. And in the end, I should say that I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11877	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11878	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Before the adoption of the Food Act, the method of acquisition, the protection system and the exercise of the right to use the geographical indication and the designation of origin of the food was regulated by the Code of Geographical Origin of Products and Services. By adopting the Food Act, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development shall become the competent authority with regard to the food tags mentioned, but also with regard to new designations of traditional reputation. In accordance with the procedure which was in the jurisdiction of the State Institute of Intellectual Property, 7 names of food products are registered and 5 with the designation of origin, two with the designation of geographical origin. All of these markings must restore their protection in accordance with the new procedure which is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. The designation of origin of geographical origin and traditional reputation is a form of intellectual property rights that is not used enough in the Republic of Croatia. Although additional value could be installed in products that are characterized by special quality. Almost all Croatian regions are known for one of the products that have a unique recipe and each of them has many stories about rich tradition, experience, exceptional climate and life, and the customs of numerous generations of Croatian families. It is therefore unquestionable that such economic and marketing potential must be used more through the aforementioned protection systems and for the purpose of enriching the market and tourism offers. In addition, the promotion of the production of protected indigenous products and their promotion could significantly contribute to the rural economy in particular in areas with less opportunities or remote areas, in such a way that it also has an impact on the increase in income for these economies, and the retention of the population in these areas. In the opening part, I said that two products were marked as geographical origin, and one of them is Pag cheese. According to the Croatian cattle centre in Zadar County, we have about 120,000 sheep, and of which is 30,000 on Pag. The 20,000 sheep on the Pag function is the production of milk, i.e. cheese. In addition to Paška siranana, Sirana Gligora and several smaller Sirans 600 family economies are engaged in the production of cheese. Of the total 200 tonnes of annual production, half are produced in family economies in a traditional way. Pag cheese is part of the tourist offer not only on the island of Pag, but also significantly wider, it makes a significant part of the island's economy, but this is also an example of how production in family economies affects the increase in income as well as the retention of the population, which is very important and significant. 15 days ago, at the prestigious international event in Brussels, paška cheese produced in “siren Mali” Ivan Gligor received an exceptional recognition – the right to not put a superior test on the label, which so far is the greatest recognition of Pag cheese in general. Also, the said cheese is among the 70 most prized food products in the world. So, besides the Pag cheese, our region, or Zadar County, there are several other products that could follow the example of Pag cheese, which is prosciutto. Then, Dalmatian shockol, olive oil and also Maraschino. So, the liqueur who was a favorite in the English court. King George IV sent his warships around hundreds of crates of maraskin. In 1871, ships sailed from the port of Zadar with marascan for Queen Victoria. Maraskino also won Napoleon Bonaparte and was inevitable in Russian, French, Vienna and Italian court. The provisions of the proposed law allow manufacturers in the Republic of Croatia to have the same protection for products that producers in the European Union have as well as their recognizability on the market. This creates an indirect achievement of one of the priority objectives of Croatian agricultural policy, which is to raise the level of competitiveness of domestic production. The provisions of the proposed law will also align the area of protection of designations of origin, geographical origin and of traditional reputation with the relevant regulations of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11879	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11880	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, speaking of this bill on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I said that just today, when we enter Euro-Atlantic associations more than ever, we need to encourage the production and protection of indigenous products because that is how we protect our own national identity, our culture, our own tradition. Some products have become part of the country's cultural and tourist identity and individual provinces. Let's just take parmesan for example, Posedar prosciutto, schwarzvald ham, French Oxford, Greek feta,... The prosciutto. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All these are products that have their own historical story, which speak of people and customs, which talk about the tradition of food production, about the social situation in a country, in a province. But also, through the protection system, they have become national brands and are recognized as such throughout the world. It should be made clear that entering the European Union is not a question of taverns or cabins, nor of what is often manipulated in public by maids, creams, cheeses, etc. It should be made clear that the European Union is not directed against those products when it comes to the national identity of a country but rather the opposite. By entering the European Union, we will preserve both cabins and stables and towers and državni prosciutto, only if we take the chance and speed up the protection process of these products. Because France, Spain, Italy, Germany protected over 150 of their products. When we talk about the European Union, it is over 1,000 and that is all it says about ourselves, about our producers, about our Ministry of Agriculture that should encourage this production depends on how much we will preserve from this tradition and depends on how many protected products and customs we will enter the European Union. The protection should be carried out in a hasty manner because of the current negotiations with the European Commission, because for certain products whose traditional technologies are produced, the recipes are not in line with the latest standards on food safety and animal welfare, and therefore they will need to be negotiated and sought out exceptions and it is therefore important that this process is speeded up and started on time. Because of education, because of the awareness of the nutritional properties of food, also because of the greater purchasing power of a particular part of the population, the market is increasingly looking for organically produced products. But also, so those made with minimal processing, minimal application of chemical protection. But on the other hand, more and more indigenous products have been sought, so products that have been prepared according to technological procedures and recipes that have been preserved in a given space over the centuries, passed down from generation to generation. These products in the European Union today have their own market, are mainly sold in specialized shops, have a much higher price than similar products that are not protected and are of exceptional quality. What is the problem in the Republic of Croatia, so with the fact that we have excellent prosciuttos and towers and cheeses etc. The problem is that they are not standard quality and the problem is that we do not produce them in sufficient quantities. Therefore, it is necessary to increase capacities and also, it is necessary to maintain quality standards, and we can only do this through the protection system. And here we come to the crucial role of this regulation, this law. Namely, for the protection of an individual indigenous product, only the Association of Manufacturers may be run except in exceptional cases. Why does it matter? For reasons, it is precisely an association with its statutes and its internal regulations that establishes a quality control system which has been specified in the specification and which is protected. Therefore, it is precisely the Association of Producers that is most interested in preserving established quality standards. In fact, if a bad product comes to the market, then all manufacturers that have protected the product and which produce it have a problem. Therefore, the association is a corrective and quality standards keeper and that is what is prescribed by this law and in which in the European Union producers of indigenous products have excellent experience. Also, since we have small capacities in production, we have the fact that one kitchen production cannot settle a few restaurants, etc., therefore it is also important to combine in order to increase production capacity, but also associations should be of interest to our producers because in this way they can combine individual and production processes from transport, from common marketing processing, market performance, etc., means that it certainly costs and rationalises their business. Also, this law is important because it regulates both the area of supervision and inspection. This prevents what happened and fake product declaration and consumer deception. If the Pag cheese or Slavonic tower is protected by a geographical indication, then this product cannot be produced in Slovenia, France, Estonia, it cannot be produced in Međimurje or on the island of Vis, but only in Slavonia or on the island of Pag, and this is extremely important, therefore, because they appeared on our market products that bear the names of these products protected by geographical indications and it is clear that this is a false declaration, that it is a consumer delusion and that in this way tried to reach a higher price and a better position on the market. What is also important for producers of indigenous products, they enter into the legal system of business through the protection system. For us, the legal system of operations is not only important because the state will collect taxes, it is important above all because it will then enter the legal system of veterinary health supervision because today at a time of extremely high standards and food safety, but also the consumer's awareness of food health, that consumers are looking for true information about the product, the right declaration, etc. It is important, therefore, that all these products are in the legal system of production and trade and are subject to veterinary supervision. It should also be said that our producers should use the benefits of technological achievements. In fact, technological achievements, although these indigenous and traditional productions are precisely enabling all of what the tradition has given, so all of those conditions, all of them parameters and process and technology, etc. with the help of technological achievements, they can be preserved and can be kept on a continuous basis throughout the year. One production, serious kitchen production that wants to be distributed all year round and meet the needs of the market, cannot be allowed to because of the warm winter, because of the dry winter, because of the wet winter etc. Therefore, the whole production of fencing has failed, but using technological achievements it can therefore enable automated mature chambers to keep these conditions constant throughout the year and that this production process can be carried out throughout the year. In fact, we had bad examples in practice, where the 2nd, 3rd month had already started high temperatures, that some of the producers had put this tower in freezers to preserve it, so as not to burn fat, etc. But on the other hand, it's no longer cool because everything that gets indigenous products around its aroma, about those volatile components that give it taste and smell, all of them are just developing during the long-term maturation process, so 9, 10, 12 months, as well as the cool, and spray, and so are cheeses. Therefore, the use of technological achievements is also imperative in this production. And finally, I would like to say that I absolutely support this Law and, in some way, by proposing that these protection processes are accelerated and that, by also one education and presentation, all those who today have partial deviations or delays towards this process to make sure that this is primarily because of the manufacturer and because of their higher income and earnings on these products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11881	Thank you. Here is just 10 minutes and 5 minutes, time to sign up for 5 minutes, and I am also informing you that the chairman of the Committee on Economy has scheduled a meeting of the board at 14 hours today at Stjepan Radic's Hall 133/1. It's Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11882	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, today is here before us the proposal for a law on designations of origin, geographical indications and marks of the traditional reputation of agricultural and food products with this final bill which, in any case, here is an introduction I can say, should or we will accept. In fact, today at a time of globalisation on the shelves of our department stores, many department stores can find anything. And very often these are products with declarations that you can read just like this with a microscope, and we here with this Law clearly get the opportunity especially, here Slavonia from where I come from to more opportunities to produce exactly agricultural, food products that have the designation of our origin of geographical origin and traditional reputation. Namely, here is the mention of Slavonic cuisine and mentions the problems already on the pier and are present permanently in relation to production in larger quantities of Slavonian cuisine. It is true that the state of Croatia, with its inspections and ministries, has taken care of the quality of veterinary supervision and all others, but it would also be true to make sure that it encourages and enables production and investment in such production so that investors who are willing and willing to move towards the production of our specific indigenous product, so that they are not choked by administrative measures and procedures, so as to move quickly and make it clear to the ministry to make sure that they encourage such production. In point, i.e. Article 7 of this proposal of the law states that the application for registration of such a product has the right to submit only a group and this is also the same as Mr Kovacevic said a useful provision in order to round the production cluster and level the standard and quality of this product, I am talking about the Slavonic tower. However, we in Slavonia really as in all parts of Croatia have specific food products. We have that one, someone mentioned cheese and cream Slavonic, we have our plum brandy like the bascotine on Pag, etc. We've got bacon that might actually not have anyone in Europe because a little where our fellow Shima knows, my fellow pigs, are harvesting like we're still in Slavonia. This bacon is a special quality. In addition to all these labels produced by agricultural food, so the designation of origin of geographical origin and tradition in production, it is clear that it is necessary to indicate on such products and quality, i.e. the high quality of these products of our products, which will be clearly cared for by the inspections and ministries concerned. Furthermore, the ecological approach to cultivation, i.e. processing and technological preparation of agricultural products, also contributes to saying that Slavonia is now oil-based in the world, food is actually the most expensive and the main product around which many discussions are being held. So Slavonia as a food producer, as a region that is just specific and famous for it, sees its chance. See your chance at having a tradition. These products will clearly have to be registered by those who are not yet registered, as proposed by this law, have a chance to increase tourism and have a chance to increase exports precisely like this. One example we have, one positive example we have in Stari Kapela, where this is exactly the kind of products that are traditionally offered with traditional Slavonian accommodation, so pension is it? I think just because of what I've said, clearly this law, the bill of law, we're going to accept it by hand, and I don't think it's going to happen that we're being cheated on in stores with just one letter. In fact, we saw that it also says Slovenian cuisine, and this is only Slavonic, but the difference in one letter is yes, and the difference is actually important. I also hope that the držnik prosciutto will no longer be raw materials imported from somewhere else, and that the lamb offered on our way to the sea will not be exclusively liquefied, and we know that I know well that it was brought from Orubica to Davor, where it is roasted under the face of the lamb, is it, or a duck, even is it. So it's good to introduce order in everything that I've been talking about and I think the bill allows it, and that it will profit from it all our regions, all our counties, because in fact, in the experience of the tradition and preparation of our people's food products, since we've been here since the century 7th, they have a huge experience and what foreigners themselves see and taste, we can really offer Europe and the whole world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11883	Thank you. Mr. Denesh Soya is not here. In conclusion, on behalf of the promoter, Mr Stjepan Mikolčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11884	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I thank you for your discussions that were comprehensive and above all useful. I thank you for your suggestions, suggestions, and, above all, for the amendments that we will consider and try to install in the final bill so that it will be more complete and quality. And I just let me, through a sentence or two, point out that through our projects, that is, the projects of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development in the form of marketing preparation of products, we have just directed activities at associations of manufacturers of such products to prepare them for what is coming to us tomorrow, that is, for this part of the activity, which will create this law in terms of later implementing rules and that as many of our products as possible get a certain designation of originality, whether it is a designation of geographical origin or a traditional reputation. I must say absolutely that the government has had an understanding of such products and in the past term we have also created an operational programme for the development of Slavonian cuisine, so we will continue with these policies so that this part of our hereto to say recognizable products to a higher level and, in some ways, in our tourist offer to become recognizable and to place agricultural production itself in a higher competitive position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11885	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The final proposal for a law on designations of origin, geographical indications and marks of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 95. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, representative Dragutin Bodakush. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Also Mr. Secretary of State Kuterovac here. The first is the Legislative Committee on Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11887	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11888	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11889	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11890	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3. in Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11891	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11892	Thank you. 4th of Article 6 and 7th of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11893	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11894	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 5. on Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11895	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11896	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 20(6)
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11897	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11898	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 21
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11899	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11900	It's becoming an integral part. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3)
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11901	It's unacceptable. Because the Inspector has the authority under this law to file an indictment and the Justice Department has no objection to us, nor has the Central State Administration Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11902	President of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11903	In terms of reason, we withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11904	Eight amendments have been withdrawn. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11905	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11906	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 10(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11907	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11908	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 55 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11909	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11910	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 12 of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 is
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11911	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11912	Yeah, it's becoming an integral part. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11913	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11914	Thank you very much. We have Mr Dragutin Bodakoš's amendment to Article 39.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11915	This amendment cannot be accepted because official controls of the health care of the hygiene of agricultural products intended for human consumption are carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Food Act as set out in Article 37 of this Law, carried out by veterinary inspectors who are doctors of veterinary medicine, graduate veterinarians.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11916	Thank you. Mr. Representative Bodakosh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11917	Dear Mr. President, the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. The word, as I said by a doctor of veterinary medicine, or a graduate veterinarian, must be one of the most responsible for animal health and food quality. Because the responsibility of a doctor of veterinary medicine regarding the quality and control of the product, and especially here, we are talking about the original products, is certainly high and therefore I think that is why all those diseases and zoos that can be controlled by veterinarians. I therefore think that in this section you should add and add this word to the doctor of veterinary medicine, or a graduated veterinarian to do inspection tasks in the manufacture of these original products. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-06-20-0.u11918	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And I am voting on the final draft law on designations of origin, geographical indications and marks of traditional reputation for agricultural and food products. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. I find that most of the votes were passed with 79 votes, 99 votes in favour and 1 abstentions along with accepted amendments. We move to - Final proposal of the law on veterinary medicinal products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 100 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the sessions. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mr. Stjepan Mikolčić. Here you go.
