ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3978	Comrades and colleagues, we begin today's session. Since conditions were created for some points of the agenda that were skipped yesterday, because the committees failed to do their job, we are going back to point 5 of the revised agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E., No. 17; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held on three committees. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Law and the Committee on European Integration. From this you have already received two reports, and the report of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health will be received in a few minutes, the report is over and will be divided into benches. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to further explain. Here you go. Ms Vera Babic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3979	Thank you, Madam Vice President, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. In a few sentences let me remind you of what is most important in the Proposal for a New Law on Pension Insurance. Since it is a matter of harmonisation of legislation, I remind you that in the negotiating chapter of the 19th Social Policy and Employment, a set standard for opening negotiations is a criterion, this criterion consists of the adoption of an action plan, in which, united activities are at the final or takeover of the remaining part of the acquis which has not yet been introduced into our legislation as well as the part relating to strengthening institutional capacity. And the government adopted an action plan in August of last year, with precise deadlines for legislative activities and some other activities that are currently not relevant to these novels. So, what is important, according to the deadlines set out in the action plan, is also the novel of the Peace Law, which finally takes over the acquis, so it takes over the legal gain associated with the system of generational solidarity. It is a directive concerning the Framework Agreement on part-time work. And it's about allowing access to rights, equal access to rights, equal access to the rights of persons who work part-time, as well as persons who work full-time. This is a clue to the fact that there is much change in the world of work, that the forms of work are becoming flexible, but on the other hand it is also required to strengthen the social security of those working in such forms of work. And it is, therefore, the fulfillment of our legislation that is the solution from this part of the acquis on the grounds of ensuring greater social security for those working in flexible forms of work. We have already taken over part of this directive with previous novels of the Pension Insurance Act when it comes to retirement. However, here we are now finally taking equal solutions for access to rights and for other institutions of the pension system, so early retirement, disability pensions and all other institutes. So we took advantage of, and this novel opportunity for the new law, to correct the part concerning the observed phenomena, not constitutionality in the pension insurance system when it comes to people living in an extramarital community and their right to a family pension when conditions arise. So here's another important, essential element of this new law. I am familiar with the amendments tabled by the Legislative Committee on this final proposal and I can say on behalf of the promoter that we fully accept both amendments to the Legislative Committee. Thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3980	Thank you very much, Mrs. Veri Babic. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on European Integration? Nothing, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first reported was on behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3981	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. These amendments and additions to the Law are a kind of correctional exam, which can be seen from the reasons that, in the past harmonisation of the same law with European legislation, we have missed some things. I want to believe that these are the last amendments and additions to this law that will have to bear the label of the bill, Europe, and that we will not be able to make every law that we first adopt as a European comes at least three times to repair. The second thing I want to point out, if I counted correctly, is the parent law passed in 1998 and so far has had nine amendments and additions. These are the 10th amendments and additions to this Act without the consolidated text of the Law being published in the meantime. During the previous amendments and additions, if I am not mistaken even in the Law, amendments to the Law have been made that the Legislative Committee must publish a consolidated text which has not been made. I would like to believe that the new chairman of the Committee of Col. Tomljanović, will accept our proposal for the conclusions that we have offered under this Act, and after these 10 amendments will publish a consolidated text, which will, believe me, make it very easier for me to act by those who have to comply with the law, and, in order to help my colleague Tomljanović, I will hand over the consolidated text, not the official variant before this Amendment and the addition to make it easier for them on the Committee. I want to believe he's right. This will be our contribution to assist the Committee on Legislatives. When I talk about it, of course it's very important that the law, because we're telling them, is in my opinion the extremely significant rights of the insurance company. So other than those who are employed and who have to obey the law, they also know their rights as insurance workers. It is not for young people who are preparing to retire and are just frequent amendments to the law, as well as a complicated procedure for the exercise of the right to calculate and prepare people to decide when they will retire, it is important to implement the law. I believe that you will agree with me that we are not only here to pass laws but to help the citizens of the Republic of Croatia understand them, to know them and to facilitate their knowledge of their rights under these laws and thus influence or at least try to influence that later there are fewer complaints, fewer disputes and less waiting for solutions when we leave for retirement, which will also relieve people who work in this job at the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. This is why we have made another proposal for a conclusion along with this law, in which the shortest Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is obliged to issue its own guide on how to exercise the right to go to retirement, so not those who are already retired, because there is a significant number of information, but there is not enough quality information for those employed people who are preparing for retirement through us, and we often come to a situation where people are not satisfied with the mistakes they have made themselves. I want to believe that the secretary of state will also accept this proposal more than I did by checking the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's website finds a lot of hot guides for different categories of people who want to exercise their right, but since it is a population that is certainly not daily on the Internet, and the question is how many of them are being used on the Internet, I think it would be extremely useful for such a guide to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office to be available to people who are preparing for retirement. And all in order but only that citizens really know their rights, and this element of knowing their rights and the way they use them has significant components in the anti-corruption fight or preventing citizens from being dependent solely on the state administration. Perhaps if we had done so before, we would have had fewer cases than one in front of me, two months old, when Mr. Milivove of Rijeka applied for retirement and as a conscientious insurance company added documents about being a participant of the Homeland War. He received a pension solution, but something in the account did not take place, forget or ignorant wrote no objection but a request to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office where he was later confirmed that by applying for retirement and applying the documentation as a participant of the Homeland War he now has a pension less for 350 kuna than he did. Namely, the calculated basis of the pension right was added to him by those 10% which he had exercised as a participant in the Homeland War, but thus lost the right to that 25.9% supplement that he would have achieved under a special law so that he had a lower pension of 15.9% at the start of the pension and had not used that defence right today, he would have had a bigger pension. Unfortunately, because of the missed deadline of the appeal, I do not know if it is possible to review the procedure and that the insurance company and the citizen are entitled to a pension that he would have had if he knew what was more favourable to him at a given time. As far as the law itself is concerned, we will support it, given that our legislative system is also covered by those workers who have worked part-time, but again I ask why we know from the reasons of the law that this is a alignment with the framework agreement signed by the European Confederation of Industrial Unions and the European Confederation of Industrial Employers and the European Confederation of Trade Unions, and we do not know anything about whether this bill was subject to the examination of our Economic and Social Council, whether they supported it or had any objections. And we constantly come up with bill proposals that should be the subject of discussion on the Economic and Social Council and always persistent government refuses or avoids to put at least two sentences about it in the light of the law. I would like to believe that it will indeed finally be accepted in such cases and that the legislator will provide the parliamentary representatives with this extremely important information especially when it comes to laws bearing the P.Z.E. mark. We will therefore support these amendments and the addition of the law to these objections and the application, indeed, to accept both proposals of our conclusions, both are in a position to facilitate the enforcement of those who are in the state administration, i.e. those who implement the law in the pension institution, as well as informing citizens about their rights and how they are implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3982	Thank you very much to counsel Lesar. A word on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, is represented by Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3983	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would perhaps briefly call this law the law of final recognition, the recognition of the reality in which we live. Although it is all a few articles that regulate one such important area as the area of social security of people, it is evident that in both of these changes is actually radically intervened in our understanding of two basic institutes from two images that persisted, existed and marked, for example, the 20th century and not only in Croatia, but I would say this whole Central European or European and cultural circle. What are the two changes? First understanding of family and marriage. So the institution, which in many ways was a traditional garden, was in itself unquestionable. We definitely acknowledge that he is experiencing his radical transformation, that there is in reality a different, different one, that in fact a different world is being transformed in front of our eyes and that the fact that we have a large number of people living out of marriage today are as it was understood or as it was accepted in traditional societies becomes our fact. I will not bother you here with figures, statistics, neither for Croatia nor for European countries. But here, in some European countries, for example, in Norway or Sweden and Denmark, I think that now more children are born in extramarital communities than in marriage communities. This fact and guidance that we have received from the Council of Europe is definitely recognised in this law and that is what should certainly be supported. One is our paintings, one is our perceptions, and one is the life that has its course and that changes unwittingly. So the second important dimension next to family, marriage, marital relations and all that is happening in this area, which is, in fact, very few people in Croatia and what we talk about very little about, and if you ask the citizens of Croatia what is first for them, then you will place a family with a large number of people or what is their greatest value. But it's interesting how little we really talk about these most important things for each man individually. But not to elaborate further. I'm going to this other important sphere. In addition to family life, working life is the area in which people are actually the most present if you watch the distribution of their time, their achievements, social, social progress, etc. The world of work is experiencing such drastic changes that some theorists around the world are actually saying the end of the work. The work we knew in industrial society, in industrial times, the work in which, which began at the time of completion of education and employment in some kind of company where you could predict your career, advancement and welcome retirement, preferably in that same company is definitely behind us. That time is gone. We can be as nostalgic as we want. What's gone wrong with that time? With that time, security was gone. The work is becoming more and more referred to as "excessive, insecure, insecure work." The work that is the source of all social rights according to the concept that Bismarck established in mid-19th, or something, in the second half of the 19th century and all the social security systems that rest on it, this system is definitely now in big trouble. And what was called the social state in old Europe can definitely no longer give answers to the growing challenges we face in this law. Why am I saying this all together? I am therefore speaking first, to say that there is no old Europe answer to these questions either. There's no answer. It is not actually known how social systems and social security systems will develop in the future, there is no final and definitive solution because if the work ceases to be a source of social security or if the social rights generated from work, which was the fundamental principle of social policies and social states, if questioned, is indeed the certainty of the social care of people in the future very questionable. Europe deals with the team, but Croatia does not deal with the team. A fellow Lesar mentions, the tenth amendments to the law, there will be more, there will be more. Because we really react not only in this area as firefighters, and we didn't need Europe to distract us or the Constitutional Court to some of these provisions, we could have solved it without it, because we knew five, six years ago, here the State Secretary that we would have to make these changes, we could have done it before, but not now, it doesn't matter. It is important that we in Croatia do not have any competent authority or any competent institution that would systematically address these issues and the future of social security. In the Ministry of Labour, entrepreneurship and economy or I don't know what it's called, I don't mean to offend anyone, there's a group of a few people, I don't know how much management makes, pension insurance employs people, we have a pension institution that deals with implementation. No one systematically studies the consequences of what is happening objectively and what happens through the application of certain laws or amendments to the law. Nor does anyone countercipe what awaits us in the future. We don't even have a scientific institute to deal with these issues. The Institute of Labour. We have several professors at the Faculty of Law who are studying these questions but this is far too little for the importance of these issues that we should be dealing with in Croatia. The peace system is a system that absorbs a third of the country's budget. 12, 13% or slightly less of GDP now. Don't worry about how with so much money we provide so little social well-being for those who receive it is really pushing their heads, the Noahic pushing their heads into the sand. We have to deal with the pension system in a more serious way than what we've demonstrated here to make individual donations to individual groups that are loudly making up for something and buying their political favor. This is too serious a question to be approached in such a way. If this excessively insecure work in this particular case for people who work in atypical forms of employment, means that they work part-time, one third, with two employers, with three employers, we introduced it all. He has the right to accomplish five, six years ago. He's entitled to insurance and some kind of future pension. The question is, how many pensions will these pensions be? It is said here that the amount of that pension will depend on the length of payments and the amount of payments. If someone works two hours a day and not eight, then his pension will be so much less four times lower than who worked full - time. What does that mean? They will all be far below the lowest pension guaranteed by law. Who's going to make up for that gap between their so-called pension and this? And these lowest pensions. Now about 200 thousand pensioners, 200 thousand pensioners receive the lowest pension. They must be added by the state because they receive less from what they have earned. What's going to happen? Do we countercipe such a situation? What will happen to this further fissalization of the pension system? Will he stand, will he be overstretched? Why haven't we taken advantage of the last four years and I don't see that talking about it now and they're increasing the separation by the second column. We already know that the generation of people working in Croatia will be less than 50 years of poor people because neither will they have first pensions nor will they have a pension from the second pillar guaranteeing them a more decent life. There are calculations if by 2% or 3% we increase the isolation rate in the second pension column so that these pensions can be as decent, somewhere above 3.5 to 4,000 kuna. It's a long way from legal jurisdiction, but compared to what we have now. What's going on? So we've been down for five years, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, we're down, We are talking about this before the election, perhaps now is the right time to think more seriously and consider this as your kind of pledoies, as a request from this Parliament to get serious, talk about the pension system, about the safety of people. They're our citizens. You know, we've taken care of ourselves sitting here and we've secured our own as much decent age as possible, we have security. We have no right not to think about that social security people who chose us here. Someone says we're a state in the Praxitans, the Apaurins. Yes, but this is the consequence of not as commonly thought by the effects of war stress, this is the result of this existential uncertainty in which people in this country live today. And that's the thing that politics must face. That's our concern. It's an essential space of our political interest. Everything else is not as serious as these issues of solving the fundamental life problems of people and citizens in this country. We will support, of course, these changes, these changes. We think they're on the verge of precisely recognising the reality that is radically changing in front of our eyes. And once again I call for seriousness in analysing, monitoring these changes and giving adequate answers that will benefit our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3984	Thank you very much, Agent Vidovic. The word has on behalf of the HDZ club representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3985	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs. Although I found it interesting to listen to today's debate by fellow MP Vidovic today as a representative in view of the time he was Minister of Labour and Social Care. But I'm going back to this topic. I must say that the proposed amendments to the Pension Insurance Act will achieve two objectives here. The first objective is to bring our social legislation in line with a Council Directive of the European Community that regulates part-time work. The second objective is to implement the Constitutional Court's decision in part of the legal equalisation of the right to family pensions for the marriage and extramarital community. The harmonisation of the Pension Insurance Act with Directive 97/81 of the European Union and the Framework Agreement on part-time work is precisely our obligation in the process of harmonising legislation with the legal frameworks of the European Union. I would like to remind you that, before the adoption of the Croatian pre-accession programme for accession to the European Union, the European Commission has made certain recommendations regarding social security in Croatia. One of these recommendations has been implemented by amending the Pension Insurance Act so that, with regard to the exercise of pension rights for the period of work with incomplete working hours, it is equal to full-time work. In Croatia, full-time is set, I believe that we all know that, in the 40-hour working week, and the part-time work as we still call it part-time is represented with only 8.7%. The figure includes workers who work part - time but also workers who work part - time because of the use of other social rights. For example, part-time work due to child care with developmental difficulties. In most European countries, a much higher percentage of workers working part-time due to the need for the labour market have been to coordinate their family and work obligations, such as in Austria almost 22% of employees working less than full-time, or full-time weekly. In Ireland 17%, in Italy 13%, but the most part-time employees in the Netherlands are 45%. In all countries, there are relatively more women who work part-time than men. It overcomes the view that greater participation in part-time work is one of the ways of reducing and unemployment rates. Croatian legislation so far has not been encouraging for people working part-time, and moreover, it can be claimed that the socially endangered working population in Croatia is more women than men. The amendments to this very Peace Act allow them to count their years of work, translated into part-time work in determining the right to retire as a calendar period carried out in a working relationship no matter how many hours a week they work. Of course, there is still a model of determining the level of pensions on the principle of reciprocity between the paid contributions that depend on and the amount of pension. As a result, this increased right, a relatively small number of insurance companies, will not necessarily compromise the financial sustainability of the pension fund for persons working part of the pension fund, will allow for the short-term, disability or family pension rights to be acquired under the same conditions as other insurance companies. According to current regulations, this was objectively not possible, for for example, a woman who works part-time takes 60 years of such work to achieve 30 years of retirement and obtain conditions for early retirement. Although she may be of age - seeking age, she could not use early retirement but had to wait for her retirement. Amendments to the laws proposed for 30 years of part-time work could count as 30 years in insurance and the person could be entitled to early retirement. The shortest this regulation means practical application of the principle of social rights being made available to all citizens in the Republic of Croatia under equal conditions. The regulation that regulates it is not for the sake of the European Union, but, above all, because it is our interest. The second issue, which is regulated by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, is to enable widows and widows who have been with the deceased, whether the beneficiary of a pension or an insurance company to live in an extramarital community. Realising the right to a family pension. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has taken the view that the current provisions of the Peace Law that banned it are not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to harmonising with the decision of the highest judicial authority, it is proposed to amend the recognition of the life reality surrounding us and to be respected by social legislation. The objective existence of extramarital communities is our reality. Of course, the legal text includes provisions governing the way of proof, the existence of an extramarital community, the process of achieving and the loss of the right to a family pension of extramarital spouses. The Croatian Democratic Community advocates' club estimates that the proposed amendments to pension insurance laws are one step higher on the way to increasing citizens' social rights and one step higher on the way to increasing citizens' social rights and one step closer to bringing those rights into line with the European Commission's recommendations. We therefore propose that the Parliament adopt the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3986	Thank you very much for representing the Kunsy. Let's go with, correcting the incorrect allegations, Agent Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3987	Honored vice presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues. I would correct Mr Kunst's incorrect claim that they are not passing this law because the EU, or the European Union, is asking for it, but because it is your interest. If that were your interest, then you would have done it in the last term, not passed a law on pensioners who brought most of the pensioners into a very unspeakable situation. So I'm correcting your claim, it wasn't your interest, it was because of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3988	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask the MPs to report correct allegations or possible replicas in time so there are no misunderstandings. We're starting an individual debate. The first is MP Milivo Schwartz.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3989	Dear Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The peace system is certainly one of the fundamental systems that guarantees the social security of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. He's not the only one, of course. But with very important life issues, one of the perhaps most important is how in a quality and safe way to ensure the rights of our citizens in time after working active life or in case of loss of working ability or death. And all this, with the need and accepted principles of reciprocity and solidarity guaranteeing the right to an age pension, early retirement, disability pension, minimum and basic pension, and members of the family of rights in the event of death of insurance workers, i.e. the beneficiary of pensions. The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, which today stands before us, addresses three basic issues. First. It enables equalising the rights of persons working part-time with full-time insurance rights. We know that the situation that many people so far have not had the right to exercise rights that have worked not full-time, and that means equal access to early retirement rights, disability and family pensions, as well as the right to professional rehabilitation. Second, it provides equality in the legal situation of non-marriage and marriage family members, i.e. widows and widows, regardless of whether they lived in a marriage or an extramarital family community, with regard to the right to a family pension, use and the loss of those rights. So far, persons who have lived with a deceased insurance or a pensioner in an extramarital community have not been able to exercise the right to a family pension. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The Pension Insurance Act, in the section of re-determining early retirement. The proposed amendments and additions will ensure equalisation of the right of a number of insurance undertakings in this important and socially sensitive area, which have so far been denied. They also show the sensitivity of the legislator who is seriously targeting not only the declarative arrangement of this area but also the real concern for social security in the case of age or disability of all citizens, whether they work full-time or work part-time. It is clear that the application of this law requires certain financial resources as well. In order to ensure the rights provided for in pension insurance, a certain number would thus be acquired. Having seen their source proposal and the necessary height, they can only conclude that the benefits will certainly be more than the resources for it and the social equality of our citizens in this area will need to be singled out. For the above reasons, and for the reason that the Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act provides for the same and harmonisation with the European acquis, I support the full adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3990	Thank you very much. The word has a representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3991	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. The pension insurance system is an important part of the social security system in the Republic of Croatia. In order to maintain a long-term pension system aimed at ensuring social security in the event of a risk of age, disability and death, but also greater responsibilities of the individual for income in Croatia have been reformed since 1999 so that a mixed public-private pension system has been introduced into three pillars. The provisions of the Pension Insurance Act require mutual and solidarity to ensure the rights of age and disability, the right to retirement, early retirement, disability pension, minimum pension, basic pension, and family members for the death of family pensioners. It also provides professional rehabilitation, compensation for physical damage and travel expenses related to the achievement of security rights. In the circle of insurance companies, equal persons, craftsmen and merchants of individuals, persons who carry out their own professional activity, farmers, etc. With these amendments and additions to the laws of a particular person who has so far been unable to exercise certain rights, they will now be able to do so. In this respect, insurance workers working part-time are allowed equal access to rights and early retirement, professional rehabilitation, disability pension and family pensions in the way that it is possible for full-time insurance workers. It is also a new quality to enable an extramarital widow, i.e. a widower to exercise the right to a family pension after the death of an insurance undertaking under the conditions of co-habitation in a joint household for at least three years, as governed by the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. It was also necessary to equalise marriage mates with regard to the loss of the right to retirement in the event of remarriage or a new extramarital community. These amendments and additions and with regard to other conditions for the determination, use, re-determination and loss of rights are uniform. These amendments and additions strengthen the principles of reciprocity and solidarity, so I support the adoption of laws, amendments to this law and in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3992	Thank you very much. The word is represented by Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3993	Dear Madam Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The issue of pension system arrangements has been up-to-date in all countries. We can boast of the quality upgrade of the pension system and good financial solutions that allow sustainability in the financing of pensions, but the growing trend in pensioners' standards. The care of pensioners has been continued, and the growth of pension allocations in the 2008 budget compared to 2003 is 37%. Growth always as much as it would be, we'll all say it's insufficient, it could be more, but we have to be satisfied with what's been done. The objectives are to protect the old and powerless and reduce the percentage of the population at risk of poverty. That's why the government responded immediately when a trend of difference occurred between so-called. New and old pensioners. In July 2007, the Pension Insurance Act was adopted. Proposal to amend and supplement the Mandatory Pension Insurance Act, which brings added value to the pension system before us. It allows insurance workers working part-time to have the same access as those with full-time insurance, the right to early retirement, professional rehabilitation, disability pension and family pension. These amendments to the laws shall ensure full harmonisation of legal provisions with European regulations. Given the positive side of this addition of the law and the importance of harmonising our rules with the acquis of the European Union, I fully support the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3994	Thank you very much. It is up to representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3995	Thank you, Madam Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act with a final proposal for a law may only be the correction of an injustice that should never have happened, and on the basis of an opinion or guidance from the Constitutional Court itself. But... Since it is an emergency procedure, so where the first and second readings are united, this may be the time and opportunity for us to re-warn the increasingly difficult status, the position of Croatian pensioners in our society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, we're witnessing a lag behind and a great backlog of pensions relative to wages. So here's the average salary pension has fallen back to about 40 percent of the average salary. Namely, why is that? Surely one operation, or one intensities, that happens here, for a whole number of years, the girdle of Croatian capital, has brought poverty in Croatia to a large door. There is a large role of the Croatian State that cannot be calmly viewed as being uninterested in these processes. In fact, the average pension paid in January amounted to a thousand 999.92 kuna and 38.92% of the average salary, respectively. So, this ratio is the lowest so far and in the context of food collection, those basic provisions of life, and even the directorship is actually pushing over a million pensioners into poverty. According to the calculations, half of the average pension goes right to the apartment or to the settlement of all the costs associated with the apartment. So to the retired, the remaining income is that pension of a thousand kuna. So these thousands of kunas, or 33 kunas a day. The average pensioner should be provided for but not only for food but also for medications and hygiene supplies. There, nearly 189 thousand pensioners are forced to live, to survive with less or less than a thousand kunas per month. So, with this one proposal, amending laws that actually enable unfulfilled insurance workers to have equal access to early retirement rights, disability pensions and family pensions, and the same burning injustice that nonmarriage comrades were not equal to the spouse, which is incomprehensible interpretation and the existing law without talking about the basic Family Relations Act, which, far from 1978, even the marriage and extramarital community. And it is incomprehensible then how this should be particularly highlighted in every law when it comes to certain laws relating to the rights that should result. But when it comes to duties, then the state zealously implements this fundamental provision of the Family Law in which the marriage and the extramarital community is even. So, here, maybe this is also a warning that it can no longer happen to the state, so it applies to the laws, which, first of all, to it, and then to the addressees and citizens, that it respects the laws that it proposes itself, which we bring here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3996	Thank you very much. It's MP Vesna Škulić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3997	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would talk about an injustice or read a petition to correct errors in the way of calculating and paying compensation for the shortened working time of children’s parents with severe developmental disturbances. I hope, otherwise, that this law will correct this injustice or that if we do nothing else, Europe will force us to do so. So, we, parents of children with severe developmental disorders that we use or we will use the right to work with half full-time due to the care of our children, and according to the Regulation on the rights of parents of children with severe disturbances in the development of leave or to work with half full-time child care, we consider that we are systematically cut off for part of the compensation paid to us by the social care centre due to the application of the tax bill on compensation, social benefits are not considered to be taxable income and a reduction of tax and tax compensation that would be paid to us to pay, and we ask that a solution be made in accordance with the powers which would correct the current error in the way of billing and payment and compensation for reduced working time. The right of parents of children with severe developmental disturbances to work with half full-time is governed by the Law on the work of the "National Journal" No. 137/4, the consolidated text which determines the right to pay for the burden of social care. The method of calculating the amount of compensation is prescribed by the Regulation on the rights of parents of a child with severe developmental disturbances on leave or on working with half the full-time "National Journal" 92/3, for the care of a child. Thus, Article 9 found that a parent who works half the full-time has the right to pay for the remaining working hours until full-time at the level of the difference he makes by working half his full-time and working hours. According to paragraph 3 of that Article, the compensation shall be paid to the parent by the social care centre on the basis of the employer’s confirmation of the paid salary or salary to be paid to the parent for part-time work. As the pay under the terms of the Labour Act implies gross wages in the case of the above-mentioned fee, we do not make full pay as if we are working full-time. We believe that compensation for the remaining working time should be paid in full, or compensation should be equal to half of the salary, and contributions for the first and second stages of pension or insurance should be paid as from the salary. The rest of the salary, such as the withdrawal of pensions, is subject to tax regulations and the rest of the fee should be paid in full because the social benefits are not taxable. Otherwise, this is about one final petition, it's about an injustice that is therefore taxing twice the same money and where that money goes no one knows. Here, since parents never made it to anyone, they keep texting with the state, and I appeal that this petition also be considered when it comes to amendments and additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3998	Thank you very much. Last reported for debate by representative Susana Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u3999	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. When I participated in the debate last week on the proposal for a plan to harmonise the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2008 I expressed hope that the central authorities of the state administration, that they would stick to established dynamics and confirm that they had put us into fifth gear and that the representatives in this House would also make us work at the same pace. I therefore welcome that today is the first of the seventeen laws for which the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is in charge. And the fourth law so far included in this session's agenda of 121 which Croatia will bring into line with the European acquis in this year. I call on you, colleagues and colleagues to contribute to constructive discussions to the accepted dynamics in achieving the common objective of full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. Subject matter Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act extends access to all pension insurance rights to insurance workers working part-time, which complies with the 1997 Council Directive on a framework agreement on part-time work. These changes will allow insurance workers working part-time to have equal access to the right to temporary retirement, professional rehabilitation, disability and family pensions in the way it is possible for insurance workers with full-time jobs. This amendment and the addition of the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act are fully in line with the acquis of the European Union. However, the amendments and additions to this law are also based on a report on the instability in the pension insurance system, which was warned last year by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which observed an unequal legal position in the exercise of the right to the family pension of family members, extramarital widows, widows compared to those of the spouses. Proposed amendments to the laws of extramarital widows and widowers shall allow the exercise of the right to a family pension after the death of an insurance or pensioner under conditions of co-habitation in a joint household of at least three years and the mandatory establishment of the status of an extramarital community in an extraparate court procedure, as it is also settled in the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Clearly, as married and out-of-marriage spouses are even in terms of achieving justice on family pensions, these amendments to the law have been evened with regard to the loss of the right to that pension in the event of remarriage or a new extramarital community. Thus, an extramarital mate and a divorced mate with the right to abstention are evenly equalised with regard to other conditions for determining, using, re-determining and losing the right to a family pension. Both these proposed amendments and additions are corrected or the provisions on the reduction of the starting factor for re-determining early retirement. The funds for the implementation of the amendments and the addition of this law shall be provided in part from the contribution to pension insurance and in part from the State budget. The assessment of the number of persons who, under these amended provisions, will exercise pension rights ranging from the estimated 220 persons in 2008, 340 in 2009 to the estimated 470 in 2010. Even if it is not necessary to comply with Croatian legislation with European acquis, I am pleased that these persons will also exercise pension rights. And finally, since this is really the tenth amendment and the addition of the basic Law on Pension Insurance adopted ten years ago in 1998, I appreciate that it is time to adopt the consolidated text of this law for the sake of a more transparent reading of its provisions by those who in their work are obliged to apply it to the citizens to whom we belong. I will support these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4000	Thank you very much. None of the clubs answered for the closing word. And the word was requested by the State Secretary, Ms Vera Babic, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4001	Thank you. Madam Vice President, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. I'm taking the opportunity to thank you for the debate on the occasion of the Retirement Insurance Act. Believe that for all colleagues and colleagues working in this system are in the debate in this House on these issues always motivated. I would like to say that, of course, we are aware of the fact that it is a very important part of social development, that we follow and know the problem, that there are certain activities in that part, so when it comes to pension insurance as a very complex system, that they do not suffer speed, that they should approach new systems with attention. And what I would especially point out is that this system is so important that it certainly does not suffer disagreement at the highest national level. It is a system that can be classified as the highest national priorities, especially because of the fact that the Republic of Croatia has so highly ranked the issue of social security and social justice in its constitutional and legal order. So, what must and what awaits us in the context of both demographic change and economic change, and the structure of the economy and the nature of labour relations, and changes in the world of work will require a national consensus on social system reform and pension where we have taken certain steps but now we have a part of the reform in the health system, so the issue of social security has to be redefined as well as the demographic and structural changes that deserve the national consensus, and I am convinced that this House will make the greatest contribution in this sense. I am also taking the opportunity to say on behalf of the promoter that I accept the proposal for the conclusions that you have made on behalf of the Croatian People's Party and I thank you once again. Thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4002	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to the sixth point of the cleared agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4003	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act. The debate is closed. The amendments of the Legislative Committee have been accepted and are an integral part of this final draft of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The draft law with 129 votes was unanimously adopted. We have the conclusion of the HNS Representatives' Club, which the promoter has accepted. The conclusions are the following of the Club of Representatives of HSN: "The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is obliged to perform and issue a guide on pension insurance rights relating to those insurance companies who have yet to exercise their right to retire and make it available through the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. ... The guide shall not be less than 20 % of the total number of insurance institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is obliged to update regularly, issue an updated guide in accordance with the amendments to the laws and sublegal acts governing the area of pension insurance." I am giving this proposal a vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. So with 129, this conclusion was unanimously accepted. And we have the conclusion of the HNS Representatives Club No. 2.: It is up to the Legislative Committee to establish and publish the consolidated text of the Pension Insurance Act that within 30 days of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Abstained? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 129 votes, this conclusion has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4004	It is up to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. Emergency procedure. First and second reading. P.Z. No. 16. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held in two committees – the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. Does the Committee's proposal also want to explain the proposal? Proposer, I'm sorry. I've added committees. On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Anto Zvonimir Golem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4005	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you for being able to present here a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. As usually happens when it comes to the health system, then the measures proposed to this House of High usually cause disdain. Because knowing the complexity of the health system, measures are always aimed at rationalising measures, and as such they can always be kind of criticized and pointed to possible real and unrealistic dangers. Therefore, it is a pleasure sometimes to adopt one of these amendments and supplementing the Law on Obligation of Health Insurance as one of the first measures of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this term referred to the Croatian Assembly, which is aimed at improving the health system in a way that enables what we like to call a dictionary of the greater rights of patients. As for a small number of changes, but with a large core, allow us to give a little clarification in order. In the part of the amendments of the Croatian Parliament which adopted the new Social Care Act in 2007 and which introduced a new category of users in the form of parents of children with special needs, a basis for a new type of insurance is opened, and we believe that this was also necessary to amend it in the Mandatory Health Insurance Act in order to provide, in fact, the national programme by which the parent category of care was made possible and to exercise all health insurance rights for that category of people. The second of such measures is a measure where years of monitoring the implementation of the Health Insurance Act has been established that a number of young people have been deprived of their rights due to their 30-day deadlines as long as they had to apply to the Institute for the exercise of rights by health insurance. How the situation took place was that these young people who did not continue to study in the face of more circumstances, and they had no intention of applying to the office within that time limit. That's how they lost those rights, and that's the right to health insurance. To avoid this happening and not to create an ugly picture, and to them, a huge problem in this bill is proposed to extend the 30-day period to a 90-day period within which we are sure that they can achieve their right to do so. A similar problem was faced with new insurance companies that first acquired insurance status, which could not determine the date or termination meant earlier insurance status or were people who had either acquired Croatian citizenship or, for example, lost insurance status through various ways in that troubled part of our recent past. This proposal to prevent these people from being treated in different ways, so as not to create different criteria for the exercise of rights and the right to be achieved under the existing law is a one-time cash payment that depends on the time spent without the insurance status, we believe that if these people are given the best help if they are one-time right in the largest amount in a year, which we will all equalise and then we will not have different calculations in a way that has been recognised for some three, five or seven years, which raises costs and costs. And from which part will they be able to achieve this right. The next measure proposed is the measure I personally like to call a minimum thank you for the selflessness of families who, in their most difficult moments, donated the organs of their loved ones to health institutions. For reasons of clarification, the problem has arisen in a large number of people who have suffered death from treatment in institutions outside the residence. In the event that the family has decided to donate organs, we consider it to be something minimal that we can do as a sign of some gratitude and acceptance on the side of the system, and that is to at least settle the costs of transporting the deceased from that hospital to his place of residence for burial. So, all of these may be in some way minimal measures, but for an individual, it can mean a lot to our citizen, and a lot of important measures, and a lot of situations for which we can let's say and directly endanger him. In the end, it is the most important measure and measure that has been announced and which has led to the fact that this major amendment is an essential part of the proposal to abolish the administrative fee. The issue of administrative fees from this introduction was also justified and unwarranted criticism and simple arguments. But I believe that it is clear to everyone here present but also to Croatian citizens that the introduction of the tax may be one of the most unpopular measures in the first term. But also one of the most necessary measures at a given time for the introduction of order in the health system. I know that many will not agree or wish to agree for already known reasons, but the administrative fee needs to be seen through the complexity of its impact on the entire health system in general. Because let's remember the moment when the proposal was made and when the Croatian Parliament brought the amendment and when the administrative fee was introduced. First, the moment is the rise in unnecessary consumption in health, and this is extremely high unnecessary consumption, which has been conditioned by some measures inherited from early times. Secondly, the impact of unnecessary consumption has made the health system practically unstable in the area of financing. Third, the increase in unnecessary patient referral to hospital health care even though the quality of the service could be achieved at primary health care level led to the fourth, and the increase in waiting lists due to limited hospital healthcare capacities. Afterwards, increased consumption resulted in an extension, time and payment, with a constant weekning of further increases and losses, i.e. deficits and hence, a situation and a reduction in the availability of medical services to those who really needed these services. And not to mention further, there may be a lack of preventive activities here and many other irregularities that we have tackled, for example, the significant lack of system control of consumption at all. The administrative fee at that time was only one of the measures which the system began to correct and which as such had an echo precisely in reducing unnecessary consumption. It is clear that such an administrative measure has also taken certain results in terms of additional revenue, but it is clear that this is only byproduct of measures and by no means the basic objective and purpose. And there were also other measures that were guided by the same principle and the same reason as I'm going to say, let's say a basic and complementary list of medicines, a fund of expensive medicines, an increase of specialists in specialist consular protection, means at primary health care level, primarily gynecologists and pediatricians and other specialities. Even the introduction of a larger number of Health Homes in order to increase and make available, especially as regards areas of special state concern. Let's say one thing about the measure is the opening of a pharmacy and the opening of a pharmacy in rural areas for better availability. In two years as far as administrative access is concerned, other shifts towards the stabilisation of the system, such as the completion of the primary health care information, which the minister clearly stressed, are expected to be fully operational from the first April to the establishment of a quality control agency under the law adopted by this Assembly, for the purpose of establishing controls both in the medical section and in the part of consumption. In this way, by ending these last two measures, the conditions for abolishing the administrative fee have been met. This proposal indicates that we have the strength to take unpopular measures to develop the health system, but that there is also a clear vision of the development of the further system, which is why this proposal is submitted. And it must be pointed out that there will be strength and knowledge to further develop the health system regardless of the accumulated problems, regardless of the popularity or not the popularity of the measures. It is necessary to point out one more thing on this occasion, which is the Croatian citizens and doctors who may be most affected by this measure, so the introduction of an administrative fee in part of the burden, the other in part of the burden of work. Realizing what kind of problem this is and why what a man would say standing was introduced, they also put up with such an unpopular measure. First, with one clear and open view that no one has been threatened, or has been rejected, means the medical service needed and has not been conditioned by an administrative fee. And on the other hand, just in the area where the biggest problems were created, such as the administration of administrative fees, such as the problems created in primary health care offices, they were able to overcome these problems. And now that you have this proposal to abolish the administrative fee should be clearly and loudly thanked for the patience of both citizens and doctors and nurses who have successfully taken this time to introduce other models, therefore, health control, rationalisation models and models of reducing unnecessary consumption, to successfully state this measure, here until its completion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4006	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Golem. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Excuse me. We didn't see it. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Agent Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4007	Thank you very much. So I would correct one of the state secretary's allegations that the intention, or the objective of introducing an administrative measure, was to introduce order in the health system. If that were true, then when that provision was abolished, you today might say that the administrative fee fulfilled the function and that today we have order in health care. But it is clear to all of us that neither the profession nor the ministry has decided to abolish the administrative fee, but it is part of a political agreement between the coalition partners who have drawn up a new power. If that were the case, there could be a series of arguments. For example, at the first statement by Mr. Minister that the administrative fee would be abolished, i.e. the second, the administrative fee noted that mandatory supplementary insurance is also being considered. It is obvious, therefore, that even from the Ministry itself, we have received confirmation that the administrative fee had no meaning and that it proved unnecessary. Now, we can also elaborate that she has fulfilled the purpose, so we're ending it, and that's not true. We all know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4008	Thank you very much. I repeat the question, will the representatives of the Committee take the floor? There's no one here. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the Club SDP representative, MP Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4009	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let us return briefly in the summer of 2005, July 2005, in the middle of July, this same Assembly, many of you were then in the Parliament, this same Assembly. I quote what we said at the time: "Administrative tax is a tax on disease. The administrative fee is an imposition, a harrass to the disease. July 2005.". Why were we talking? Because they've broken and now they're breaking all three principles of solidarity, gentlemen MP, all three types of solidarity, healthy about the sick, rich to the less wealthy, young to the old. How? Healthy to the sick? Because the administrative fee was paid only by the sick! I go to my general care doctor once a year. I'm healthy and I only pay 10 kunas. And whoever didn't do it with his own guilt had the pressure, the sugar went every time he went he paid 10 kunas. And this is a violation of the first principle of solidarity on which Croatian health and European health are based. Solidarity for the rich towards the less wealthy, not to tell the poor, was also violated because they paid for both those who paid 10, 20 thousand kuna and those who were poor. According to the World Bank, 20% of Croatian citizens live below the poverty threshold. According to the Centre for Social Sciences of the Croatian Bishop's Conference, the percentage is even higher. 25% says the Centre for Social Science of the Croatian Bishop's Conference. 25% of our citizens live below the poverty line. And that 25% paid the same as those 75% that are above that poverty threshold. And the third type of solidarity, young people's solidarity with the elderly was also violated, because those younger ones don't go, don't use the most common health services so they didn't pay, they didn't participate, but those who are older because of a series of chronic diseases I don't know, they had to pay the fee. Okay. So in 2005, you didn't accept our suggestions, you didn't accept our arguments, you didn't implement them, two years of administrative fees are being carried out, and now we're coming back here. I quote, current Minister Milinovic, said nicely, I thank him publicly. "Administrative Tax is a Tax on Disease" completed a quote, but he was vice president of the Parliament in the summer of 2005 when we told him. We told him that, we argued, prayed, pleaded, but the administrative fee passed. Two years late, a colleague and a colleague. They want to admit it to me or not. They want to admit it to me or not. What happened in those two years? What happened in the system, and what happened with our citizens, and we're all... Our citizens. [[You don't understand.]] I'm a doctor, so I'll tell you in the system. You know, doctors have characterized themselves with the following words what the administrative fee did to them, and I quote: "Medits are doing the job of cashiers today, family medicine doctors rarely do the job of nurses, and doctors in hospitals do the work of family medicine" finished quote "Medica Croatika Act" in February 2007. "Acta Medici Croatika" is a professional and scientific journal of the Academy of Medical Sciences, the Croatian Medical Chamber and the Croatian Medical Assembly. A very sad definition. A very sad definition when nurses who were our excellent nurses were cashiers, our excellent doctors of family medicine and the foundation, we mentioned the press yesterday, the foundation of public health is a doctor of family medicine. They're self-absorbed by our doctors who carry the system, not these few so-called. Doctors who are often in the media, play a case or treat or do not treat celebrities. The foundations of the Croatian health system are doctors of family medicine and they have assessed themselves. Then what are our citizens? Well, the citizens said, the citizens said it's difficult to measure, it's hard to measure how many of them didn't go through, it's hard to measure how late they might have been. And so I'm very happy that the secretary of state thanked our doctors and our sisters, I thank them, I thank the sisters and doctors for having endured all this, I hope that they will return to their business, to the treatment and care of the people, but I expected them to apologize to the citizens for what has been done for two years, means thanks but also an apology. We can't apologize because two years ago we said, and today in point 16. We propose that we cancel the administrative fee. Given this delay of two years, given the results, as the administrative fee is now lifted, I recommend the state health administration to consider our suggestions both to the opposition and to consider our proposals more carefully in the future, not to put ourselves in the same situation again, not to be two years later. There's a great proposal on one side and on the other and on the middle. And today is the abolition of the administrative fee that we clearly welcome, is essentially the correcting of an injustice that shouldn't have happened. But he says ok, the administrative fee is the security guard's entrance into the system of fortune keeping ma's not that problem. The problem is the jet crashing if we're already speaking English, I apologize for speaking English but there's no better translation, it's so-called. soft stomach. The problem is the soft stomach of a health system for which the state health administration is responsible, not citizens, not sisters, not doctors. Those who run the system must know what a fortune keeping what a soft belly is. Each system has a soft stomach, both economically, both legal and medical. Therefore, the problem is an inefficient system, the problem is an organization and, of course, the competent state health administration, so once again I plead, listen to our suggestions from the middle, from the left and from the right, listen to our amendments so that we will not be late again and that we will not be able to correct our injustices. And I commend the new category of health care, and these are people who recognize parenting status, which is a really great thing for them to be health insurance today. And in the end, but no less important, two things. I was expecting Madam Vice-Presidents that this item, item 6, will be united with the SDP Club's proposal at point 16 because point 16 is exactly our proposal, which has been abolishing the administrative fee for years. That's not what happened. And secondly, over the last three years, colleagues and colleagues, the same scenario, the same or similar amendments to the law. July 2005, July 2006, February 2008, the same scenario, emergency procedure, first and second reading, amendment of the Health Insurance Act. So in July 2005, when it goes under the Constitution, the Parliament must stop working, July 2006 when the Constitution has to stop working, February 2008. So, as my colleague said earlier, three amendments in three years, we plead and we believe that it is matured time for the consolidated text of the Health Insurance Act similar to that of the Pension Insurance Act, that our citizens, our insurance companies, know where they are, and that we service providers know what we can tell them. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4010	Thank you very much. I'm obliged to answer why these two bill proposals didn't come together. I agree that it should have been, however, obvious that democratic procedures are not worth the same for all the draft laws. This second bill of law, which came from the SDP's Club of Representatives, did not go through the discussion on the boards, and the government only sent its opinion on what it is required to do today. Here, that's why these two completely or partially identical billings are not united. We have, I'm sorry, you're too late to correct an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4011	I wasn't late. You were talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4012	Wait a minute. There's more to you than that. We have three corrections or four with you correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4013	I just wanted to warn you that they weren't fulfilled or what you said incorrectly, they weren't...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4014	I'm sorry, I didn't give you my word. You can't, you can't... A fellow representative! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I beg you, you know the Rules of Procedure very well. You've been correcting an incorrect allegation. Please sit down. We have three corrections to the incorrect allegations of Agent Ostojić's speech. The first is President Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4015	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. She would correct a colleague who said that this law violates the principle of solidarity by introducing an administrative fee. My colleague, first of all, prices are not formed on the principle of wealth and poverty, not only in health but also in any other activity. And no patient who could not pay this administrative fee in the health care system refused. He made it happen. I reviewed and got a prescription and realized your health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4016	Thank you very much. Second correction of the incorrect quote by representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4017	Thank you, Madam Vice President. There is no system in Europe in which, which is more solid than Croatia and in which citizens less single directly for health care from their pockets than in Croatia. Therefore, it is an incorrect claim that the administrative fee was a harrass, but it was exactly what you said to your colleague Ostojić, so she kept the entry into the system and protected against unnecessary and harmful use, excessive use of services and to the harm of those who needed these services. Therefore, we have introduced this fee with the aim of protecting precisely those who need the system, the services from the system. We also withdraw now that we have acquired conditions and we have the conditions to monitor consumption. And otherwise, we have to make a reform when it comes to protecting the system from unnecessary and excessive use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4018	Third correction by Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4019	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Col. Ostojić incorrectly stated that every time he comes to a doctor, he has to pay ten kunas. He could have come several times, but it could've been paid maximum in the month to 30 kuna. So, it doesn't stand this quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4020	Thank you very much. The word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS is represented by Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4021	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Kolega Ostojić finished his discussion with the appeal on the final publication of the consolidated text of the law after this fifth amendment and addition. And I want to believe that this proposal for the conclusions of our club will be accepted, because it really is necessary to publish after this fifth amendment and supplement the consolidated text, both because of the people who work in the health care offices and also because of the possibility of patients themselves. As for the suspension of the administrative fee, he would remind that people's proverb who confesses, half of them are forgiven. But the other half is remembered. We can't fool people so easily because one of my pensioners is telling me the other day, now you're gonna do a terrible thing. You're going to cancel those 30 kunas we paid to the doctor a month, and you've increased our television subscription so much, it comes to the same. So we're not saving anything. People who were most often bound by this payment account for all their fees and expenses so they're not very happy, but I want to believe that they'll be the most happy nurses and doctors because we're really discharging by me unnecessary charges, writing and all of this. But I'm worried about what Mr. Secretary of State said about those 30 kunas. All the reasons for the introduction of this fee, which turned out to be that primary health care doctors were guilty of overuse of health services. So in order to reduce the number of those under quotes of unnecessary use of health services, we introduced a fee and punished patients, sick people. But not the ones who were there, guilty of it. The word unnecessary spending in health has also been used. Who's to blame for unnecessary consumption if it really exists? Patients or the system. I would like to remind Mr. Secretary of State that a few years ago when the newly appointed secretary of state came to the Assembly I suggested that the Ministry of Health think seriously and to pick up experiences, then I mentioned Switzerland, and to see how this is possible, and based on the claims they made that somewhere about a third of the medicines in Croatia that patients get end up unused, in the trash, which makes an additional environmental problem. So, as they did it in Switzerland, they set up a system where patients can return unused, unused drugs, back to the system. What have they done and done that people have been stimulated to do so and that there is no fear of returning medications that have passed the deadline of use or of being manipulated? So if the rich Swiss have found a way to do it, let's try to do something in Croatia. Annual drug consumption now exceeds 3 billion kuna. If it's a third, so if it's true that a third of these drugs aren't needed and remain unused, then only half of it goes back to the health system that's half a billion, half a billion kuna. And again, I appeal to really consider the ministry being who they're going to consider and find the model, we're going to solve some of the savings in the health system, but we're going to solve the environmental problem when the drugs end up in the trash. Is the elimination of these 30 kunas more important to repair the situation of sick people in the health system? No, I don't. The waiting lists are getting longer and longer and now for the occult review, the most common occult review is ordered patients May, June. Why is it so I don't know, but I'm warning you that in the last few months, waiting lists are getting longer and longer. By eliminating these 30 kunas, we will also not do much because the list of medicines that are being paid or paid in full is getting bigger and bigger every year, and a large number of medicines that patients receive are not on the list of free medicines. I don't know why doctors would normally prescribe these medications to patients if they didn't need instructions from patients to buy that medicine anyway. The health minister announced or said he was considering making supplementary insurance mandatory. Additional insurance cannot become mandatory because there is only one compulsory health insurance in Croatia and as soon as it is complementary it cannot be mandatory. And it's a good thing there's no such proposal, especially because supplemental health insurance has taken drugs and most people go to supplemental health insurance for medication. And finally, to make the most of the patients. Resuscitation of county hospitals' debts. Whether he's 4 billion or 4.5 or 3.5, it doesn't matter. So long as we do not reduce to zero the debt of the county hospitals waiting lists will be increasing longer and longer, the amount and quality of services becoming smaller and smaller, the standard in the hospital system is becoming smaller and smaller. We can continue to close our eyes to this problem and continue to argue that this is the problem of the county as hospital owner and you know that no county in Croatia can and will not solve this problem by means of its own resources this year or next, the more the government's programme provides for this recovery, but there is no budget for this year. In addition to this draft law, the Croatian People's Party club also gave three points of conclusion which I ask the Secretary of State to listen and accept. They are being traced to the implementation of the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption, where in the field of health care as one of the anti-corruption measures is foreseen in point 11. The improvement of patient information systems on options. In 2004, the Parliament accepted such a similar conclusion and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute then issued 200 thousand copies for the first time in the history of existence as I remember this guide. A beautiful little brochure provides a guide to insurance companies who have compulsory health insurance rights, where and how they can achieve it. And it went to the field through the district offices and primary health care clinics. Meanwhile, from that 2004 to today, the law has been amended three times and every year the regulations of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute have been amended. Therefore, it is necessary to restore the new content of this guide to give and re-make available to patients or insurance companies because knowledge of the rights arising from health insurance is one of the ways that we will influence it when people know, they are free of pressures both possibly and corruption. Meanwhile, there's been another newspaper, I find significant. We have introduced a new health care institution, new health insurance at work and established a new institution that has started to operate and almost illegal and the media have been warning us for a month that the lack of information and employers and employees have created real confusion. Workers who experience an injury to work, including coming to work and returning from work not only treatment but also from the first instruction until the end of treatment are not in the family medical system or primary health care, but rather in medicine. Although the original intention was to give medical work a preventive role and importance, we gave them the authority to treat injuries at work. Due to the limited number of specialists, due to too little ambulants, insurance companies travel 50, 60 kilometers per instruction to continue treatment, fail to meet, generate additional costs for citizens, extend their sick leave only because they were not familiar with the change in time and employers and insurance companies. As a result, our proposal that this institution must also issue its own guide is intended for both employers and insurance companies to facilitate their recovery, reduce costs, reduce the time spent on it because it is our obligation. I would like to believe that permanent practice from both health institutions will be accepted as well as pension that, after any more serious changes to the law and sublegal regulations, they will provide insurance in time for accurate, timely information on the content of their rights and the way and place of the exercise of those rights. It is not enough for colleagues and colleagues to pass regulations and it is good to introduce some new rights that the insurance companies have not had so far, but we cannot be so selfish that we only leave that information function to the media and that only through public media have the opportunity to find out what is new now. It is our obligation that those who exercise on our behalf those rights that we have legally established if we need to "make" or force the amount of information they provide to insurance companies, users of their services for which they exist, for which they are paid regularly, to provide citizens. We will benefit from this because there will be fewer complaints, fewer complaints, fewer dissatisfied citizens and administrations and those in charge of this less work. This may be at first sight an additional cost in the short term but in the long term brings far greater benefits, not only in finance, but also in relation to citizens and their trust in the institutions of the health system. So I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, on behalf of the motionary and accept these conclusions and help people cope with these frequent changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4022	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, we have two corrections to the incorrect allegation. The first is President Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4023	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. There's a number of incorrect allegations, here's the first one, you can't fool people so easily, a colleague alluded to the government about obviously mixing pears and apples here. This government doesn't cheat on people because in her pre-election promise she has promised and has now suspended the administrative fee, and you are addressing the wrong place. It is not the government's fault for increasing HRT's fee, simply contact Croatia's broadcasting. It's not true, you can't fool people so easily, you can, it's an example of the Rijeka Bank, a colleague. Another lie, that no funds were secured for recovery. Which is incorrect, funds for the recovery of county hospitals are secured. And in the last term, this government provided funds for the recovery of hospitals if you remember it was a billion and 300 million kuna and this respected House was told that the hospital's losses would be rehabilitated. General hospitals are county hospitals and we know how funds come to the county level. The drugs have been thrown out, which is also incorrect, and I hope the other colleagues will correct it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4024	Second correction of an incorrect quote, representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4025	Unlike my colleague, I think Mr. Lesar had only one false allegation at the very beginning of his exposure when he said who confessed half to him was forgiven. Mr. Lesar, I didn't hear an apology or confession from the secretary of state that they were wrong, but in fact, the health care today got us a hard stomach, what my colleague Ostojić was talking about and that's why we're canceling, we're canceling the fee. Administrative fee, pardon the administrative fee to me similar to the ZERP. Now we'd be playing administrative fees a little bit, so now we wouldn't. So now we'd have a little ZERP, so now a little bit won't. And who's gonna pay the price? Citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4026	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate on behalf of the club. On behalf of the Rules of Procedure, what injury does he have? No one. On behalf of the HDZ Club, representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4027	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, I'm going to make a slightly different presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club. Namely, I must express my satisfaction here both as a member of the HDZ and as a doctor, a surgeon, and this is also mentioned and spoken and often emphasized by Mr Ostojić. Yes, today, indeed, this law that goes by an emergency procedure, I am pleased to see what this government, which is here, has not even passed two months, which we have appointed in this House, the government headed by the HDZ. The government, where its parliamentary deputies sitting here today in a pre-election campaign, promised that when they came to power, when they received confidence that they would abolish the administrative fee and I thank our prime minister and the health minister for that. But that's part of it. The other part he wants to say about the law itself, the law as a law each has both good and bad sides. And I would just visit the SDP gentlemen, and also Mr Ostojic, at the time he was vice president, Deputy Minister of Health, when a famous law was passed that county hospitals were in the jurisdiction of the county. What Mr. Lesar is saying now, the debts of the county hospitals. And it is constantly calling for the law passed by your coalition authority that you transferred the powers of the county hospitals to the county without decentralisation of the financial system. You didn't make it, be realistic, I'm 12 years old first man of the state health care of the carlovia county, and really, at that moment, there began to be a pile of problems in the county hospital's health system. And to this day, let's face it, they're not recovered. However, the health care system is earlier, too serious to be seen and dealt with in part. So we need to be aware, please, colleagues, stop talking. I would warn our representative and the viewers who are watching us on television today that no country in the world can financially monitor properly at this point, and I think we'll all agree that there is no money that health care can't spend. And based on that, I will say something about the administrative fee that was brought in, as Mr Ostojic said in July 2005. Of course, that decision or law has been made to mitigate the consequences of the financial situation in health. And not just for that reason. Because we need to be aware that at that time a system of supplementary health insurance was introduced within the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, a measure that sometimes gave people access to health care in the short term and when it was not needed. And let us be realistic that in the first year of the introduction of additional health insurance, the consumption of prescription drugs in the Republic of Croatia has increased 800 million kuna. At the same time, data from the Republic Health Institute say the nation's morbidity has not increased. We know, at the same time, that during this period neither the medicines in the Republic of Croatia grew more than 3%, but some medicines decreased. Therefore, something should have been done to reduce the use of prescription drugs. And it is really not appropriate to point out that this administrative provision was designed to degrade doctors of primary health care. We who are in the system and who know the system and well, and I dare say really too well, we know that primary health care, and for almost 10 years it hasn't had any specialization. In the last 7 or 8 years, doctors of primary health care have almost all been specialized in family medicine and have sufficient expertise to treat people. But what is the problem? They all have contract patients. And the patient is unsatisfactory if his doctor, his doctor, does not give him a specialist's manual next year will change his chosen doctor because he is not satisfied, he has not been satisfied with the doctor by resorting to the less resistance line being sent to specialists and what is happening. Again, the waiting lists that you have also discussed here in the Parliament and during the previous term are only increasing. I absolutely think we all agree if someone needs a specialist examination, if they need to get one. But let's be realistic, and we who work and the clinic know that 20% of specialist examinations are unnecessary, and we'll all agree. It's just that maybe 20% of the specialist exams and they're increasing the waiting lists. At the same time in such a situation should mean finding a way to ensure what Mr. Ostojić said about the security system or the key that will, in part, prevent any patient who comes to his chosen doctor from receiving specialist protection, a specialist review, and perhaps he did not need it at that time. And I must admit that this administrative fee in no segment has denied any citizen of the Republic of Croatia for the highest possible standard of health care. It really isn't. The only one who's been suspended are primary health care doctors for far greater administration. And I work at the hospital, and I knew many times both doctors and nurses said that Dr. Strickic can't do it like that anymore. We turned into cashiers. And indeed, I must say here and thank the ministry that it reacted quickly and that this law is going according to an emergency procedure. But at the same time, I said that no citizen was cut off for the highest possible standard of health care was cut off in the financial section for 30 kuna. We have to admit that, and at some point those 30 kunas that were collected from the administrative fee, the money didn't go into the wind. Where's the money spent? About annually it was collected or collected from an administrative fee and about 300 million kuna. Let us remember 300 million kunas by 2006 the fund of expensive medicines for the most severe patients, patients with malignancies did not exist. It is from these 300 million kuna funds that the Fund of Expensive Medicines has been funded, where since 2006, all patients in the Republic of Croatia who have malignancies have no longer singled out on their own. Many times it happened that families of poorer social conditions could not afford these drugs or had to sell some of their assets to enable treatment. By introducing a system in 2006 which I think is really an extraordinary thing and all those who are dealing with medicine will admit that the system of expensive medicines has just been financed from this segment, and today when we decide to abolish the administrative fee we welcome at the same time, I am pleased that this bill says that the funds that will be missing will mean these 300 million kunas will be raised from the state budget. And that's the seriousness of this government, the seriousness of the Ministry of Health. And finally to conclude. The HDZ club absolutely supports abolishing the administrative fee, we have nothing to apologize to anyone. At a certain point, the assessment of the people who ran the ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia saw that it was a measure, a short-term measure that could improve the system. And I don't know what's short-term for you? At the same time, why are we abolishing this fee today? Not because maybe that's what the SDP Club was looking for. We are leading a consistent policy, a policy that has a vision in the pre-election campaign because we knew that we would have the continuity of the government, and knowing what the ministry was doing to inform primary and health care in the fourth month and our minister's announcement that the information of primary and health care will end and there will be absolute control of the consumption of medicines in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4028	Thank you, Agent Strickic. We have on his exhibit three corrections of an incorrect allegation. The first word has a representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4029	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A few corrections. First of all, at the time of the adoption of this law, I was not a deputy minister, first of all, and second of all about our brilliant doctors, I quote: “Doctors satisfy patient desires.” I don’t know any doctor who pleases wishes. Our excellent Croatian doctors treat our people, care about our people, and do not work a la card. This would be a la card. Third consistency. Politics to be consistent then the administrative fee would remain. It's one language logical paradox and a fourth. There's a lot of it, and I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4030	Thank you very much. The word is Maria Lugaric. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4031	It is an incorrect assumption that the HDZ implements a consistent policy, because I do not see consistency in the fact that an administrative fee is first imposed, so when people see it as a problem then they promise themselves as a pre-election promise we will end it and then as great saviors and problem solvers, the problem that would not actually be a problem if the administrative fee was not introduced. That reminds me before of that app policy, if it passes, not a consistent policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4032	Correction of the incorrect quote Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4033	So here's just one or two corrections to the incorrect quote that the colleague made in his debate. He quotes: “No one has been denied, therefore, by health care insurance.” That is simply not true. Research by the GFK agency since 4 February 2008 shows that 75% of the population had additional costs for medical services in 2007. That is one thing, and when you wanted to correct or justify your former authority only then did you again, or did you do it incorrectly, you made something incorrect. Never did the former government say it was a short-term measure. I'll tell you what your colleagues quoted back then. You probably don't know, so maybe they gave you the wrong idea. So I am just quoting what was said and the word on this side when such a law was passed, that is, the cost of administrative fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4034	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4035	Cost, administrative fee... /species off, so back on./... and this law does not take anyone out of their pocket...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4036	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate on behalf of the club. The word has a representative, Mariana Petir, in front of the HSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4037	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. There are several reasons why we will support these changes, of course good reasons. The first of these is that the amendment and addition of the Health Insurance Act meets one of the objectives of the Croatian Peasant Health Party programme relating to the abolition of the administrative tax in primary health care. I would like to point out that this HSS programme has become an integral part of the health coalition programme, so an absolute consensus has been reached, that such a measure should indeed have been abolished. Why? The administrative fee was one of the obstacles to the use and availability of basic health care. Since the family physician is the first step in health care and should not be hindered by use, the HSS insisted that it be abolished as well as by the provision of Article 3 of the amendment and the addition of the law that is now in place. I would like to give an example of what it looked like on the ground and why administrative fees as such complicated things, and on the other hand, it was in some way a problem for those citizens who are weaker assets especially when we talk about pensioners or those who have many families. The administrative fee was a total of 30 kuna per month, paid every month again whether or not 30 days have passed since the last payment. So, for example, if a patient paid 30 kuna and came back in 1.2 and took three instructions or prescriptions again, he had to pay 30 kuna whether it was 6 days after the payment, something more or less. So besides being a terrible burden for pensioners for those of the weaker property status, it was also a big problem for doctors of general practice because they really had to administer along with their closest associates, or nurses. It happened that they had to keep the money for a month, that they had to make some pretty complicated accounts for HZZO when handing over that money and that, of course, it could be quite dangerous if there was a break-in in the general practice office, it could happen that the doctor who was responsible for that money could be left without that money and that he had to make up for it out of his pocket. For example, hospitals of up to 1700 patients or 2,000 patients, which are mostly hospitalized in small rural areas, have collected between 10 to 12 thousand kunas for an administrative fee over a month and doctors had to carry those 10 to 12 thousand kunas with them for a month to then hand them over to FINA. So what is important is the highlighted HSS has certainly insisted on abolishing the administrative fee that this law allows and that is a good measure. The second positive amendment to this law was therefore introduced in Article 4 and we believe that this is extremely positive. The third positive change is the alignment with the pre-additions of the laws which are decommissioned benefits for mandatory maternity leave and we also consider it appropriate. Other articles of amending and supplementing the law relate to compliance with the Social Care Act, equalisation of the rights of insured persons who cannot determine the earlier status of insurance and to the payment of the costs of transport of the deceased to its place of residence if that person has given its transplant bodies. What we have here as a proposal, Mr. Secretary of State, is that if one person has saved another person's life by giving her organs, then whether it is secure or not, the HSS Club feels that the costs of the transport should be paid, so I ask you to be aware of this proposal and, if necessary, we will draw up a written amendment. Finally, I would like to conclude that we certainly believe that investing in health care is a role in the future of the state, in economic development, in the competitiveness of the economy, in demographic recovery and in all kinds of progress of the Republic of Croatia. The aim of our joint coalition programme for health care is to develop a fair, responsible, quality and politicistic decentralised health system in which every man is at the heart of his interest and to implement a health policy that will remove differences in the availability of human health care regardless of their social, social, territorial status, age and gender at all levels of the system. According to the public, the health system is one of the major systems in which changes need to be made in order to be capacity and quality and accessibility in some way tailored to the needs of people living in the Republic of Croatia. The improvement of the system has been the goal of reforms so far implemented, but in this adaptation it has become evident that organisational changes are primarily meant to implement such a financial consolidation that will enable function and development in the long term. This means that both this law and the Health Protection Act will have to experience some more changes and it is our proposal to form working groups, that this will certainly be done by the end of this year. And when it comes to amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, the HSS Representatives' Club will support that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4038	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4039	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The importance of the health system is of paramount importance for every country and so is ours. In addition to this, last week's debate on the adoption of a state budget which clearly crystallised the opinion, but of course also the opinion of the public and citizens, as well as the presentation of a colleague, Petir, that certain changes in the health system and, above all, in terms of consolidation, financial consolidation, of course, maintenance of high quality, as well as availability are needed. Well, yesterday we had the opportunity to often mention the World Health Organization as regards tobacco control, but it is also necessary to say that the World Health Organization has done an analysis of the availability of the health system in 192 countries. True, off the record. And where Croatia is in category 192 countries positioned in 22 places, very high therefore. Therefore, it is certainly an obligation for health insurance to contribute to this availability. And these amendments to the law and additions will certainly contribute even more and better to the availability of the health system in our country. I see that from today's debate that the eyes are maximum against the administrative fee, so it is necessary to say that in 2006, therefore, on the basis of the strategy, the national health strategy from 2006 to 2011 as one of the measures, the short-term administrative fee was adopted and as such incorporated to improve treatment and diagnostics in primary health care. Surely this measure has contributed in the section of expertise and, of course, in financial terms, 300 million kuna is mentioned. And that's good anyway. But it also rarely made it difficult to use such health care, of course, and burdened workers in primary health care. That is why we are especially happy, and the commendation of the secretary of state to the primary health care staff who have borne the greatest burden of this. And I'm sure he'll welcome the primary health care staff this suspension and, of course, the insurance clients. In particular, he would like to refer to the amendments to the Law on Social Welfare, which, thanks to God, introduced a category of parents, legal guardians from last year. And certainly 12 million kunas were provided for that purpose too. However, it is certainly necessary to regulate mandatory health insurance rights, and this will certainly contribute to that part. And I believe it will certainly improve that part. And this measure with regard to the regulation of students after high school up to 90 days to regulate their health status will contribute. And many other categories that have not had health care so far will be able to achieve health care in a simpler way, and thus the availability of the health system will certainly be even better. And that will improve that same system. So I am pleased to be involved in bringing these amendments and additions and I am sure to support these amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4040	Corrections to incorrect allegations. First. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4041	I am correcting the inaccuracy of my colleagues who said that this administrative fee or the tax disease was introduced in 2006 with a health development strategy. You've been collecting this imposition since 2005 so for a full year before you brought a health development strategy, and you can see how much you were missing in that strategy when we abolished this administrative fee today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4042	Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4043	Well, that's right. So in July 2005, the correction of the incorrect alleged administrative fee was introduced in July 2005, and in July 2006 under the same scenario, under the same scheme, emergency procedure, first and second reading, two drug lists. So, the second short of rights. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4044	And respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4045	It is not true what the representative said that the administrative fee was introduced as a short-term measure. It was introduced, at least at that time discussed, and was thus explained by the government representatives i.e. HDZ, it's one of the reform thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4046	Replica, a respected representative, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4047	I'm not talking about the administrative fee for change, but I'm pointing to another inconsistency that was made according to the same model, which you mentioned as a welcome change, which is this change from 30 to 90 days in which students who finish high school can apply to the office to exercise their rights. Namely, this change from 90 to 30 days was brought right from the HDZ government together as well as the administrative fee. So again, you're solving a problem that wouldn't have existed if you hadn't gone into some kind of reform and problem-solving thing at all. So the same as the administrative fee. You solve problems that wouldn't have happened if you hadn't created them. And don't think of it as some kind of ultimate achievement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4048	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4049	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As regards this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, with the final proposal for a law between them, all bells are praised by the situation as the Government abolishes the administrative fee, which is nevertheless the Minister of Health’s recognition, the disease tax is lifted. Therefore, it was not even a short-term measure as is now to be justified, but it was equally certain that it was not one of the foundations or important segments of the reform procedure, as the Government explained at the time when it imposed an administrative fee i.e. harac to patients or to a disease tax. However, something in this explanation is contradictory. But it's not good, it's not good for motives or otherwise good will when laws are passed that we really believe we have both the strength and the courage to exercise. Therefore, to place contradictory statements and put them into circulation, it is not a feature of a good government. Here you can see in the assessment of the situation and the basic issues that are regulated by the proposed law and the consequences that law-making will take place, on the same page only a few lines of two different, two different explanations. Thus, in the light of this law, it is stated firstly that there is an administrative fee in the framework of short-term measures to stimulate the development of diagnostics and treatment in primary health care. So something else than the minister claims that it was like the SDP all along, all these years from 2005 to today, and so here, forced the government to do so, and it is certainly good to abolish that administrative fee. So a few only lines later in the reasoning are stated. By preparing the other measures necessary for further stabilisation, therefore, that this administrative fee as a measure has become excessive because here it has contributed among other information on the system. In this way, we have a little administrative fee which was bad, now that we don't have it is certainly good, but then we have to admit something that was bad, so let's be honest that such and similar things wouldn't happen again. And my colleague Lucin pulled a parallel like this with ZERP. It doesn't seem to have much to do with matter or anything, but it has to do with how we behave and what we're saying at home, what we're saying out there, what we're saying to MPs, what we're saying to citizens. But now precisely because of such inconsistency that we were working outside the knowledge of both the Parliament and the Croatian public and what we were saying at home and now it has also proved that this policy was short-lived and has simply proved to be a clip in a car leading to Europe. In fact, three years ago and today, we SDPs said that changes in the health insurance financing system cannot be reduced to any insufficient money that cannot be covered by existing or existing sources, that it is transferred as an additional cost to patients, or as an additional obligation to lower levels of government, above all more precisely to local self-government units or, above all, to the county. The truth is also inconclusive that the state is very little co-financed by health costs and that most of the health costs and almost 100% of the health costs are financed by the employees themselves. These are workers in the Republic of Croatia who make a significant and large share of their earnings for what they have created with their work. This is precisely why all their health costs, their needs are financed on a solidarity basis, but also the needs of those who do not work in Croatia, have no happiness, members of families with abstentions and the like. In this time of the fall of the standard of citizens, which even the International Monetary Fund spoke of last year in one of its observations, saying to Croatia that Croatia must take care of this because that poverty, I quote, at the big door of the houses in Croatia. I will repeat these surveys by the GFK agency since 4 February 2008 which, among other things, show a decline in the standard of citizens and for the first time here we have now combined how many, how many of these detachments per average household or household were. So in 2007, 75% of the household had expenses for medical services. Therefore, the further burning problem remains regardless of this final suspension of the administrative fee that is the harrass over the sick i.e. taxes on disease. It's good to make it right, but it's not good to cover up the reasons. It was wrong, we warned, that it took a whole number of years to pass to convince yourself, but here you see all those who intend to justify this, that it was a short-term measure better to spend our strengths right in the conversation, talking about how to improve our health status, how to make patients, how to make this element of solidarity of the constitutional category as much work as possible, and how to free the sick who are then, in a special need, from any obligation or how to make that health care more accessible to citizens. It is precisely this analysis that warns regardless of how this health tax is abolished as I continue to say to all large ones that the average household if it has a sick member must stand out. So this sort of thing that followed the introduction of an administrative fee, maybe just to quote some. We will correct a whole series of negative things and phenomena that have been seen and be assured that this administrative fee will therefore, with all the other measures that have been put in place after that law, that we will live longer than the average European. Even those thoughts and words were. There was also such a direct very open speech by HDZ, so it was said the recipe was invented by the other, not ours. It's called the recipe. Look how heartless it was. Pour in the money system from whoever's spending it and it's the insurance company. Fortunately, that gave up, it should be admitted that it was wrong. It's not that big a sin and make mistakes, but the worst thing is to find excuses for such mistakes because then they suspect that some new mistakes will be made, and that's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4050	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4051	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct my colleague's quote. It is not true that the SDP forced the government to make a decision to abolish the administrative fee. In fact, this government and the Croatian Democratic Community have so many experts that they really don't need SDP's help. In its pre-election programme, the government promised to abolish the administrative fee and what she thought about it in these elections, and what she thought about your programme also said in these elections. And I'm sorry that when you speak in your debate and quote that you are quoting beyond the context of the whole debate. Then repeat the whole debate about what it was about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4052	Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4053	Well, speaking of this topic, we've actually opened up one deep ethical question here, a moral question, and that's a question of equal rights to the lives of all citizens. So the same right to health is identical with the equal right to life. This administrative fee, especially those most endangered layers, have indeed been seen as an injustice. So not only psychologically, but in the most literal sense. That's why today we're talking about a syntagme hack on life, health tax, etc., disease tax. So, in principle, people are less hurt by their difficult position than they are sometimes punished by injustices of societies that have no feelings or sensitivity for their difficult position. And what does that mean? That's why I'm saying it's an ethical, moral problem. This means that health cannot possibly be, that life cannot possibly be a category measured by the logic of the market. Whoever has it can buy, health must not be a commodity bought on the market and the rich will be able to buy and the poor will not be able to buy. And that's why he's gonna have to be sick, so eventually he's gonna die. Because we're facing a series of charity actions today, they're full of newspapers about it, you can't correct the replica, so they're constantly, constantly people are collecting for some people who don't have, because the system doesn't defend them, not protect them, that good people are trying to protect.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4054	Thank you. Reply to Replicated Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4055	I absolutely agree with you colleagues that health cannot and must not be goods, we have become seemingly, instead of developing the market, have we, we seem to have developed a market society where everything is sold and everything is goods, including health and that goods that seem to have the largest... Because it's something everyone needs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's a good fellow that, with our bill of law that we've referred to in the procedure, we've forced the government to react and to give up those explanations, so first of all from the administrative fee, this harrass, from this tax to the disease, because he used to defend himself, so when he introduced himself, he defended himself with literal words. This law tells no one to take out of their pocket, no more lip than ever before. It is incorrect that this law leads to a new reach in the pocket. You said, new duties, that's how they suit us, an increase in inequality. This Law, or group of these laws, gives no new inducement, no new financial obligation, no insurance or patient. Then how did it get out of this line? And I'm glad that today's words are said differently, that today here we are pressed first of all by the public, first of all by the sick, but also by our ranks that we've been normizing and as a proposal referred to in the procedure, but it's not good, therefore to deny these explanations, we simply have to admit that it was wrong. And you show greatness to overwrite from those who know it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4056	At 11.53, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4057	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I note in the debate that certain provisions are illogical and that I would have to explain them a little bit better. Therefore, it is not true that in the proposal, therefore, the reasoning comes to some conflict, that it is interpreted in one item in one, in the other, and it is misstated. Neither in the proposal nor I said this, that the administrative fee improved the information. I said the following, that the administrative fee was carried out by a part of the task that would now take over the information because of the better ability to control. I wasn't either, so she wasn't, in this whole proposal, no apology. In this proposal, I thanked the Croatian citizens for realizing, because the citizens realized, it was visible every day. Those who didn't understand were those who, when I was there, started calling it a harass, started calling it a disease tax, and I don't know what kind of words to hide, actually the responsibility that we came into that situation. Because I repeat, the administrative fee was introduced to stop unnecessary consumption, and only in the first year of the introduction of supplementary health insurance without any control has increased the consumption of prescription drugs by 800 million kuna without increasing the price of medicines and without increasing... in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If there wasn't room for unnecessary consumption, then we just have a big problem. So when we say consistency and then we talk. I didn't speak in this House, I spoke at workshops with social partners, with citizens' associations. I said it was one of the measures, and like any measure, it has its beginning, middle and end. And there was nothing we, who did this part of the job, nor was the Government of the Republic of Croatia forced on your part. However, I think the introduction of an administrative fee was absolutely justified and there is no reason to apologize, there is reason to say the following. Gentlemen, in two years, how many, almost three years we've imposed an administrative fee, we've taken all other measures in the health system that we can now abolish it without having an increase to it the way an additional health insurance has been introduced. And I was hoping in this debate that a little more care would be taken of this proposal. And not to have an alibi for the time when today's deputies, once deputy ministers and others, have introduced the measures for which they have seen the projections at all, have not established control systems at all and brought us into this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4058	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4059	It is incorrect that the secretary of state claimed, literally quoting: "The citizens have understood.". The citizens didn't understand anything, but the citizens knew from before that it was also about taxation. Likewise, read on the page of another. "According to the programme, the administrative fee is the measure which has become excessive due to information, control and quality of healthcare.". That's on the other side of the argument. Probably, I don't know, I can't imagine you haven't read it. And secondly, I would like to ask Mr. Vice President not to lecture here on parliamentary representatives, but rather to vote for better status in the government itself, the situation of otherwise health care in the system and the patient in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4060	The vice president didn't teach anyone any lessons, and the right to speak, I hope you won't argue with the secretary of state that he's giving his opinions. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4061	Thank you very much. I'll correct the quote I've already corrected with my fellow secretary of state. It is incorrect that the administrative fee has fulfilled its function, because something that has a function is not lifted. If you're going to compensate or think you're going to compensate by informing me to call it again, as my colleague Ostojić called his "soft belly" of health, then you're wrong. But I ask you, if in six months it turns out that the fee has not fulfilled its function, will you at least apologize to the Croatian citizens? Because that's all they deserve. You don't have to explain it to me, but you have to explain to those you broke out of the home budget 2.5 thousand kuna in this past period. How will you explain to them that you have not sinned? You can't do this to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4062	Honorable representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4063	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I welcome every extension of rights and correction of the denied rights under the Health Insurance Act in the categories of citizens, any category of citizens. But of course, these changes do not solve the problem entirely and there will certainly be more amendments to the law and I would also like to announce one of the possible procedures. For years, however, members of the Tourist Guides Society have had a problem with achieving maternity leave. From the point of view of how income is achieved, members of society are divided into three categories: employees - in a working relationship exercise the right to have a childbearing, independent – women who have their own crafts, businesses or have registered their own activities also exercise the right to maternity leave, and fees. In this category, women whose management is the only source of income, however, do not have their own crafts, businesses, are not employed or have registered their free activity. Without their service, they charge part-time, i.e. in the second income category. According to the amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Contributions to Pension and Health Insurance, all fees on their incomes pay contributions and thus exercise the right to pension and health insurance. But not the right to maternity leave. By law, this woman formally does not belong to the category of employees, nor to the category of unemployed, and cannot exercise the right to maternity leave. I find that extremely, extremely unfair. Of course, they, women asked, spoke repeatedly to the Health Insurance Office. However, they were pointed out the inability to solve the problem without, of course, amending and supplementing the law. I note, of course, that the same problem is for other women who are in the category of free professions, including actresses, journalists, etc. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, to read about this failure. I think the obligations have been made, the rights have not been evened out for at least the sake of the ultimate policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4064	Thank you. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will briefly look back on this law, and in any case I support the abolition of the administrative fee that was actually passed at a time as one of the measures when drug consumption increased 30%. So, more than 800 million kuna, and when the price of medicines was not increased, neither was the morbidity increased in the Republic of Croatia, and when more than 40% of patients were at risk of cancer and treatment because they could not separate from their budget for expensive therapy. In particular, I would like to thank the sisters really who have suffered a great burden in their work in primary health care, and also to the doctors, although the Croatian medical chamber has described nicely and said that it took about 50 minutes to collect fees and keep documentation and payment of fees. However, those 50 minutes were taken away from the talk and those minutes dedicated to the patient. So I'm really glad to see that the administrative fee is lifted, because both these sisters and doctors are going to invest in talking and treating these patients. I'm particularly glad there's 300 million kuna in the state budget. So, there will be no more market in providing health care and I'm sorry that this House is talking about a harbinger, a tax on disease. It is really hard to be sick and especially with these words to characterise this administrative fee. However, it is even harder for me to listen as a doctor that society has no sensitivity for sick people especially in the Republic of Croatia where it really is so isolated in health care and where there are so many opportunities to achieve health care and colleagues say who has it can buy health. Dear fellow, there is no money you can buy health. I'm a doctor in one department and trust me whether a patient had money or had no money every man was looked at, received, examined and given health care. It's an ugly way to talk in a high house like this. In particular, I would like to commend this law on the proposed and established measures which determines the insurance of compulsory health insurance for persons who are recognised by the decision of the competent Social Care Centre as parents, carers. Parents and carers will be entitled to compensation while they are sick and will receive free health care. It's about children with special needs and such parents have over 700 in our country. It was corrected and decommissioned maternity leave fees, and this 30-day provision to 90-day days was not a mistake even when it was 30 days. But it is also easy for children who finish high school and who finish college to have one extended deadline so that they can contact and provide health care. One small part I'd say we can give, which is to bear the costs of transporting a deceased insured person to her place of residence. And indeed, for every commendation, all these measures and changes are, or additions to this law. Anyway, this isn't the only change I believe, because we have a big job ahead of us, and it's a health care reform that's a long-term, long-term process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4066	Thank you. Two replicas. First respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4067	Well, in fact, it does refer to what, if I understand my colleague Caparin correctly, I understand very well what I was saying about market and health. I don't know if I get it right? No, no. It doesn't matter. However, I do not only respect this medical call but I appreciate and have many friends of the doctor and can tell of any doctor I know I have never felt or seen or heard of them that people who would treat patients are according to the criteria of wealth. But the fact is that the system itself, that life itself, that way of organising modern society, which is not only a Croatian phenomenon puts people in an unequal position, unfortunately for health. Unfortunately! Money has become a category that replaces you with many values of beauty and beyond. So whoever has the money gets nice. It's an old story about money as a fetish, but not just a fetish. It's some of the facts that we don't tell those stories. But it's really a fact that we have people who are in a difficult position. The fact is that I was talking about charity actions to collect money from citizens to secure someone's operation, because the system can't provide it, it can't handle it. It doesn't matter. But it happens that someone's life depends on whether good people will help them or people who have or who are willing to separate from their own to give to others. I think situations like this should be avoided. And this administrative fee was taken as a tax on disease, and the most endangered were, the more threatened the one who has less pay than I have been. That's what this is about. And it's good to end it now, I mean, I don't know how to talk about the phenomenal achievements of that fee now, so now she's fulfilled her purpose, so to speak, she's fulfilled her mission, so we've now overcome the situation. It's not about that, I think it's about consciousness, so what you're saying is it was the wrong move.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4068	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4069	A colleague that you can't get away with what you've said. I'll repeat, whoever has that can buy health. I'm telling you that whoever has money can't buy health and there's no money you can buy health. You can buy health under quotes as you say, which is correction, aesthetic tightness of the face, nose, etc. But believe me, the media campaign against the doctor, and despite what you're saying, all doctors are providing health care, doing their best, and I think every man who comes to any hospital will be supplied with health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4070	Second replica, Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4071	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Caparin was very well aware that the insertion of the administrative fee was indeed justified at that time and that there was no other way out. Let me remind you, at that point, the rate of contribution was reduced by 2% without substitution from other sources. At the time, the increase in medications due to the introduction of a flat-rate supplemental fee and supplementary insurance was 30% and the increase in the number of instructions was 20%. In order not to break the system, which means not to obstruct the supply of drugs, there were only a few exits, one of them was an administrative fee. It is not true that the administrative fee took someone's money out of their pocket more than it would otherwise, because it did not collect the price of compulsory supplementary insurance in HZZO. If that price had been raised only at the inflation rate, only 3 to 5% of a year would have been paid by patients of 500 million kuna, this is how they paid 300 million kuna. It is not true, then, that this money was taken to be owed to someone rather than because it did not increase the mandatory fee in the supplementary insurance simply saved so much that the patient paid less than he paid through the administrative fee. And because of this, as well as because of the introduction of computerisation that will control these processes, HDZ has placed the suspension of the administrative fee in the pre-election programme and I personally presented it at the first II meeting. election units as our priority programme without any political pressure but with a series of developments in the reorganisation of the health system. Finally, in Croatia as the only country in Europe, 70% of the population does not pay any participation for treatment and therefore we are the only country in Europe, in every other country everyone pays contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4072	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4073	Thank you, dear colleague, for explaining again why this government had to impose an administrative fee, and I think it must be clear to all of us in every system, so there must be control mechanisms in the health system as well. Therefore, we must react if we have a drug tax of more than 30%, written instructions for secondary health care of more than 20%, and if we think of patients at risk of malignancies then this should be introduced. I am really glad that the funds in the state budget are provided and that this administrative fee is now abolished at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4074	Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4075	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Solidarity, comprehensive and all equally accessible healthcare is a fundamental principle of SDP. So of course we will support this decision today, but precisely out of responsibility to people who have paid 30 kuna a month for this whole period, they are asking us to say a few additional words. Solidarity healthcare in Croatia will certainly not be until a million and a half employees from their salaries are actually funding the health system until at the same time the people who make capital gains pay not even the kuna for health care and for the contribution, the development of health care in Croatia. It is no secret that health care in Croatia is in a difficult state, burdened with debt, that we do not see any sign of reform that would lead to improvement, that the budget adopted a few days ago by restrictive policy certainly reduces the rights of the insurance company of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. At the same time, statistics are inexorable. Official statistics say the December salary paid in January was really worth 1% less than the same month last year, which means that, compared to the previous month, 4.5% less goods and services can be bought for the same salary, and pensions came to the bottom and amounted to 38% of the average salary. So people can buy less, live worse, health care becomes less available. The SDP strongly opposed the introduction of an administrative fee and it is very interesting, I call on HDZ colleagues to read the session's tone records on 15 July 2005, when current Minister Dr Ljubicic and HDZ representatives defended the need to impose an administrative fee, and only the opposition headed by the SDP pointed out that it was a disease tax. Why does it have to be said that it's a disease tax? Well, that's exactly what this is about. $30 per month were paid exclusively or should I say most often by our sick citizens, and thus the fundamental postulate of social justice, which is solidarity for the rich with the poor and the healthy with the sick. These 30 kunas are key evidence from a colleague and colleagues in HDZ, that health has become a commodity because it has to be paid. And not only that, the sickest and rarely poorest people have become the source of the health system's income. So the state has shifted the burden of health funding to the most sick and infirm. It noted on July 15th that 30 kuna a month would not be a home budget strike. However, colleagues and colleagues, for some 600,000 pensioners in Croatia have been receiving less than 2 thousand kuna for months, and there are about 40% of pension funds missing in the retirement family each month to meet the basic needs of life. Is someone from the government then or will someone from the government now explain to the Croatian pensioner how to live with 60 kuna daily? And when he settles all the obligations he has directed, he's got 30 kuna, 30 kuna he had to pay for the administrative fee. Which means that man had to stay hungry one day a month because that day had no money to buy himself food. Not to mention stress, we all know exactly how stress affects human health. As a man who lives in uncertainty feels, will he be able to afford health care for himself and his family, and these pensioners, 600 thousand of them live every day in stress, stressing whether they will be able to provide health for themselves and their family at all. Therefore, the pathetic sound of the reasoning we received on the other side of the amendment we are discussing today, which says: "Administrative fee was a measure of stimulating the development of diagnostics and treatment and gave its effects in the professional section" I conclude the quote. My colleagues and colleagues! The only effect it had was the taxation of the disease in the most fragile part of the Croatian population. And the virtual economic growth that you are otherwise very proud of has contributed with 0.25% of this economic growth that has been achieved. And of course, nurses are instead of talking to their patients and conducting health education and education professionally advanced by becoming less nurses and more and more cashiers. Not to mention the break-ins in medical offices that have become burglar targets due to the collected daily rate of taxes on disease. As of July 15th, a colleague and counterpart fought for the SDP to abolish the tax. It was a fundamental, one of the main messages in our election campaign, long before your campaign. I'm glad, too, Minister Milinovic confessed, he said it was a mistake and it was a tax on disease. Let me finish with one paraphrase. This will today be a small step for healthcare, which will increase the availability of health services, and a big step for those 600,000 pensioners, because they will still have one day less worry about whether they will have enough to eat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4076	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4077	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting a colleague who said that health has become a slave. So health hasn't become a commodity and that's incorrect. However, it is true that the medical service was and will be goods. So health care providers are doctors, medical staff, and medical services are unfortunately costing, because there is no healthcare without having to pay for it and that money will not be allocated. And no matter how much you sell your stuff as a cat in a bag to the public as you care more about the health of the population, we don't accept it because it just isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4078	Second correction by the honourable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4079	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague incorrectly stated: "... the standard of declines because last month's salaries are 1% less than the last one, the previous one..." The standard is not compared to the fall in salary from this month to the past, but from this month to the one from a year ago, and now 6% is higher than a year ago, because seasonal oscillations are not taken into a statistical conclusion. That's why it's been taken for a year, and that's why it's incorrect. Second. A colleague said health became a slave. No, I don't. According to global health care, it's not goods but services, but it involves material costs, which are goods. And these material costs raise 10% of the world's average annually. Therefore, health care should also be collected 10% annually and it must be paid otherwise the system will collapse. In what way, it's a matter of social agreement. And thirdly, it's incorrect that the only effect is taxing the disease. It wasn't tax first. So it's a lie. Secondly, the only effect is not that but the effect that the number of primary health care checks at that time increased at the expense of the reduction of expertise, which is the goal of every good health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4080	Third Amendment, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4081	Part of it's been corrected by a colleague. It's not true that it's a disease tax, which is corrected. And it's not true that they reduce the rights of health insurance every day. A colleague, and one who doesn't have 30 kuna, if he comes into the infirmary he's been examined, has been instructed and received a prescription for medicine and medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4082	Replica, Honorable Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4083	Mr. Vice President! Kola Jovanovic made it very clear, even calling this pathetic explanation that I agree with, an administrative fee has been introduced as one of the measures to stimulate the development of diagnostics and treatment in primary healthcare, finished quote. And the ministry's representative, the secretary of state, and others all the time say it's the gate keeping, the gatekeeper, and here I'm saying the stimulation measure. There's no language or logical tie, and even you, Mr. Vice President, can't help it. As regards supplementary insurance, Mr Jovanovic forgot the fact that on September 15th that last year the administrative council reduced insurance prices from 50 to 40 kuna, from 80 to 60 with a measure of 1 January 2008. After the election, the same administrative council unanimously annuls its decision two months ago. Therefore, the Secretary of State has already mentioned me, which I think as a representative of the executive authority shouldn't, so it's... a person who should represent the continuity of such an illogical, unworthy policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I point out, the same council just dropped first, and then it annulled the decision. It would be much better if the current minister, Mr Milinovic, did so.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4084	Replica response, respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4085	No underwear keeper will help us if primary health care solves only 20% of health problems in Croatia even though it should be 80%. Therefore, a completely different approach to primary health care, the return to the foundations of home health will be a solution that, with the continued education of family medicine doctors, will allow the system to save money, and no fortune keeper will help us.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4086	Dear representative Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4087	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! It is not a waste, and I must indeed repeat once again that the administrative fee was contained in the framework of the short-term measures of the National Health Development Strategy from 2006 to 2011 achieved its objective in a way that strengthened the role of primary health care. By preparing and introducing other measures and primarily informing primary protection that will be fully completed in a very soon time, the arguments are which no longer require administrative fees. There is no longer any need for its further application. Another dimension that strengthens the principles of solidarity and reciprocity, additional sensitivity towards children with special needs, what is a new quality, and I am also personally very pleased that these amendments and additions of the law are classified as an additional category of health insurance persons, and these are persons who are recognised by the Centre for Social Care's solution as parents, carers. Furthermore, the extended and double-term application deadline for young people who complete a certain degree of education is an additional dimension of social security in order not to stay out of the health insurance system for a short period of time. Furthermore, the institution shall bear the costs of transporting the deceased to its place of residence if the person has been executed for the purpose of transplanting outside the place of residence as an expression of gratitude for unselfish, human and solidarity procedures and assistance to families at the most difficult times. To implement this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget and I will support the amendments to this law because it guarantees more effective functioning of the health system and better availability of health care to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4088	Thank you. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4089	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean to answer at this point. The culprit is my threshold for tolerance. Namely, when I heard the State Secretary in his opening statement when he said the introduction of an administrative fee was one of the most necessary measures in the given time, and then I received a report on the table from the 4th session of our Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. I hope your colleagues and colleagues have arrived to read that report. In one place, according to most board members, the administrative fee showed results in reducing the consumption of medicinal products and a small number of instructions for specialist examinations. This measure strengthened the role of primary health care. I repeat, this measure strengthened the role of primary health care, and by completing the information of the primary health system there is no need for its further application. My intellectual range of ageing is getting more modest, I admit it, but these few sentences never connect, I really fail to connect. My attitude is very different. But colleagues and colleagues, whether it is a brilliant and necessary measure, whether it is a measure that has strengthened Croatian health or not. I ask you not to discuss further on this subject, I ask you today to send this fee to the history of Croatian health care, to solve it that way. That's the only point, the only line we all agree on. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4090	Honorable deputy vice president Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4091	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, in some ways, this last thing that fellow MP Doric said would oblige me now to give up this debate because I essentially agree with him. However, I will not give up the debate because I, too, am actually provoked to this debate. I was provoked by the word first spoken in the assembly by the State Secretary, and after that it has been repeated many times, and it is said that this bill is the result of consistent health policy. So now I'm going to paraphrasise consistency and say that you're really consistent in inconsistency. All these stories about the reasons for the introduction of this administrative fee, which is nothing more than for all of you who have persistently corrected the word tax, which is nothing more than a tax in the theory of fiscal policies, in the tax theory, is nothing more than a tax. I was the one when it was introduced who inaugurated that uglier word for that kind of tax, which is a hack. And today I think that's what this is about. But I will remind you all that all these stories about why it was introduced and why it was a great measure and why it can now be abolished that they are not really the real reason why it was introduced. The real reason why the previous government decided to introduce an administrative fee or a tax on disease or harassers is the pressure that went outside the international community, from the IMF which are not in any way on a continuous basis, and today they are not satisfied with the high level of solidarity that marks and on which the health system in Croatia is founded and which, in their convictions, weighs heavily on the Croatian state budget. And they are right that it is a heavy burden on the state budget, but we in this country have little different priorities than those in the IMF, rather than those in other countries of Europe or other non-European countries. And in the SDP, we put it in the first priority, precisely solidarity in health care, we hold one of the great assets of a non-democratic and unpositive political system. This solidarity in health in conditions in which, after 17 years of democracy in Croatia, material conditions have not yet been created in order to approach the reduction of this solidarity in favour of personal participation of patients. This is what we think is good, which should be kept in spite of all the different examples of systems in other countries. And it certainly has to be paid. This should be paid with maximum solidarity and this should be paid by solidarity precisely from the state budget in all those amounts which are insufficient and are financed from the contribution from the salaries of those who are employed and which unfortunately are still too little and shows that the number of employees actually decreases and does not grow. The problem facing the health system in Croatia is previous but also the new government has approached in one way. Let's train discipline on patients. And it was the only way to try to alleviate, amortize the financial problems that the system had and today it has and are even bigger than it's ever been. Let's let the patients not walk without a clue as to how we accused them to the doctor, let's get them a fee, and then it'll be expensive for them to walk less. Let's get some patients looking for and insisting and pressing their doctors for medication, let's press them again, throw them that fee, and then they'll ask less. This might even be acceptable if another measure had been taken to make someone else behave rationally, to make them behave responsibly, to adopt one measure that would improve both excessive consumption and excessive departure to a doctor, which would improve the availability of healthcare, which would also improve the reduction of large costs often caused by the system's disorganization. And for this system as it is said here today, it seems to me that fellow Ostojić said are not responsible patients or are at least responsible patients. First of all, it is the health administration's responsibility, first of all, that all the responsible people in the ministry are responsible, and normally those you place throughout that health system not in principle of responsibility and ability, but in principle of similarity and political similarities, unfortunately. There were words here that health cannot be bought no matter how this interpretation really cannot be bought. But something else is the problem. The problem is that the increasingly common health service in Croatia must be bought because it is simply not available, and is not available because we do not have an entire system solved because it is unorganised, because it drags everyone to its side because priorities are not defined. And that's true, I agree with my colleague Caparin, that every patient who enters the office is processed and received that health care service that needs to be given in that office. But the biggest problem today is how patients get to the office, not how in it to solve their problem. You can come without any problem to the doctor of general practice. You will also get a manual for some diagnostic examination, and then most often you will have to do a diagnostic check-up if you want to do it immediately in some private office, in some private clinic, you will have to pay for that diagnostic and then you will be able to continue using a health care service from the public health system. And that's the problem, and you don't have to run from it. All we need to do is look for solutions, look for other priorities within that healthcare system, better organize it. It is necessary to seal those holes through which the money is actually drained without any benefit to the patients and should be directed to the benefit of the patients. I will certainly vote for this law. I'm going to vote because, together with the entire SDP club, when you introduced an administrative fee, I was fiercely against it. I will vote for this law because we of the SDP Club have on several occasions proposed the same law. Well, it's on the agenda today, but it's not a united debate because you government people are deafening to give your opinion, so there's no way to carry out the assembly procedure. I will vote in favour of this law not because you promised to do so, but because the introduction of this measure at all, and the administrative fees were a total mistake which unfortunately all those who entered the offices during the time paid and lost some of their modest monthly earnings, were paid, out of retirement or were dependent family members.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4092	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Hebrang is the first to be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4093	Thank you very much. An honorary colleague has incorrectly said that we are inconsistencies in the implementation of our health strategy, because our health strategy says that we will intervene if the financing system is compromised. This was one of those interventions while the system was compromised. It's also incorrect that we introduced a health tax. You need to know the basic laws that introduce the tax. This isn't the law. It's incorrect that we've introduced a hack. It's not tax. It's whip. And it is incorrect that the IMF pressure is because they are not satisfied with the high level of solidarity. Conversely, they are concerned that solidarity is not disrupted by the unresolved co-financing of health services. As a result, two to three billion kunas must be poured out of the budget each year. As a result, the economy is more under duress and therefore cannot withstand all the social pressures that arise. So, just the other way around. The aim of the IMF pressure and our policy is to support the socially endangered and support the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4094	Thank you. The second correction of the incorrect quote is the esteemed representative of Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4095	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in a number of incorrect allegations, I'll correct a few. We'll have to pay for diagnostic tests if we go to the doctor. Some yes, but those that are needed and urgent will never have to be paid. The diagnostics are very wide, and in that forest you'll have to pay for the diagnostics. But I repeat, if it's ever an emergency. It is incorrect that people are placed in the health system by similarity. It's true that in your time people set themselves up by similarity. You remember the night that 80 doctors were removed from the board of directors of all hospitals. There were 80 of them. We called her Bartholomew Night.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4096	Thank you. This ended the debate and the final review by the State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4097	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. At the end of today's debate, let me put it double. First, I express great satisfaction that this will be supported and this proposal will be supported. But also dissatisfaction with something I think is a mistake because demagogy is extremely dangerous and can clearly and loudly create in people and the wrong impression. What's this about? To say that the system is non-solidated because it was paid up to a maximum of 30 kuna a month and every month it's all true. That it was a threat to everything and that we started treating health as something else entirely wrong. I'd just like to remind you of something that all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia know. This is that the payments in the Republic of Croatia existed, that the payment system was violated at the first moment when additional health insurance was introduced without criteria which could not be controlled, in order to again have to say what was wrong, which is that the additional health insurance finally, after a year and a half began to pay only those who were using a health care service. That means they paid 50 or 80 kuna depending on the status of only those who went to the doctor. In other words, if we're looking at that 50 to 80 kuna, it was something that was solid because a man paid for himself to go to a doctor, and 30 kunas that we said if he needed a favor for one control system that was a hack, then my logic is a little bit wrong there. What I have to say is clear, too. I have to be fenced here. There was no pressure on the side, no IMF or others in making these provisions. When it was debated and when advice and talks were sought with the International Monetary Fund then we proposed certain measures and what the International Monetary Fund asked and as always asks what you suggested how you will implement and when, and not those measures are directed to us. I must say, in all of this, it is clear to me that what I want to say from here, today it has been a pleasure to come up with five of these measures that all five measures will bring a certain improvement to the citizen. But we also clearly announce that in the maintenance of the health system, there will be a need for those measures that will not be popular. Both short and long-term and measures that may have been like this and in some other part, but that in any case these measures will be taken because we know what measures we need to take, we know in which direction we should go in different ways than here, as it is stated that some are still thinking about looking for solutions or not seeing the differences of solutions. For this reason, I would once again at the end of today's debate, thank my fellow doctors, sisters, health workers again because the burden they carry each day is extremely high. We have repeated not once or more times that the Croatian healthcare system rests exclusively on healthcare professionals, on doctors and as such, I believe that this will make it easier for them to provide this necessary healthcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4098	I thank the Secretary of State. First of all, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4099	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State has injured Article 109(2). The Rules of Procedure at the time when the debate of individual MPs was qualified as demagogues. In fact, this article states that the Prime Minister holds a meeting of the Government's position, giving notice and professional notice. I do not believe that the Government has also concluded that the Secretary of State should have given us this view of the Government that the debates are demagogue, and I do not believe that this is an expert explanation and an assessment of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4100	I thank the vice president of the House, tensely. Corrections to incorrect allegations, the first respected representative of Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the secretary of state said, there were always payments paid, not true, there was only one surcharge always paid. And 30 years ago and 15 years ago. That was participation. Unfortunately, the last three years have been paid three participations, three participations, additional insurance, administrative fees and an additional list of medicines. Thank God, if we adopt this Law, our proposal, and your proposal, we will return to two additions, to two participations. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4102	Thank you. And another correction by the distinguished representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4103	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues are not exactly the state secretary's quote that this proposal will bring improvement, it is simply not accurate enough. This, by adopting this proposal, our citizens will only return to the old situation that prevailed before HDZ imposed an administrative fee, and this is Mr. Secretary of State an example of demagogy when by improving you really represent only the correction of the mistakes you've made before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4104	Thank you. That concludes the debate. And we move on to point 12. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4105	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligatory Health Insurance. The E.R. was procedure, first and second reading. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Who's in favor of this bill? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? It was unanimous with 129 votes that this law was passed. We also have the conclusions of the club of representatives of the HNS, which you got, so I wouldn't read them, because there are long ones, is there? So I'm giving these proposals to the HNS's Club of Representatives, to the vote. Who's in charge of these conclusions? Looks like we're gonna have to read it again. Who's to suggest these conclusions? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you very much. The conclusions were adopted unanimously with 129 votes. We also have the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, which is actually, this is the inflation of their conclusions whether, but this is point one. This is: It is up to the Legislative Committee to establish and publish the consolidated text of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act within 30 days of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. Because we vote on amendments, or conclusions behind which the HNS stands. Here, who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you very much. They were also accepted unanimously with 129 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4106	- Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2007 in accordance with Article 8(1), paragraph 6. The Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, the Management Board of the Fund provided the above Report. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the War Veterans Committee. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the report? Here you go. State Secretary Krunoslav Mesaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4107	Thank you, sir, esteemed Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of this High House of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families, the Management Board of the Fund brings a third annual business report. The Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families, composed of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, the President of the Management Board of the Fund, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, members Ivan Bračić, Josip Djakić, Petar Lovrić, Đuro Dečak, Ivan Posilović and Tomislav Mercep adopted the information prospectus and business report at the meeting of the Fund Management Board. In accordance with the legal provisions... Erste Invest, the property management company published an information prospectus for 2007 in the National No. In 20708, and in the morning and evening list of 18 February, which was their legal obligation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Financial reports of the Fund and the asset management company and other relevant information related to the operation of the Fund have been published in the information prospectus. Total assets of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families on 31. 12. In 2007, it amounted to 4 billion 299 million 154 thousand kuna. Of which the largest share, 92, 843% are shares of Ina and HT, which were transferred to the Fund's account during 2005. 7% of HT shares and 7% of INE shares. 2,48% of the fund's portfolio accounts for government bonds and 4,57 deposits in banks purchased by the Management Company and placed on the Fund's account, i.e. investing free liquid assets obtained by payment of HT and INE dividends. 0.11% of portfolios make up funds in the fund's transaction account at the depositary bank, and claims based on interest on those assets and interest on bonds. Total net assets minus the liabilities of the Fund on 31. 12. In 2007, it amounted to 4 billion 236 million 82,000 kuna. The commitments related to the outstanding management fee in the management company and the dividend payment obligations for the members of the Fund for 2005 and 2006 amounting to EUR 62 million and EUR 25 000, which is visible from the balance sheet on 31.12.2007. The net assets of the fund increased by 43.84% compared to 31.12.2006, which resulted mostly in an increase in Ina prices during 2007 as well as from the state of HT shares in the Zagreb and London Stock Exchange. It should also be noted that the net assets of the fund during 2007 have been reduced by 39 million 844 thousand kuna by disbursement of 19 million kuna to the Croatian Defence Fund and from the foundation of the Homeland War and their family members at 40:60% and by making a commitment to the same amount to pay dividends to members of the Croatian Defence Fund. So the total increase of 43.84% in the nominal amount for 2007 is a billion 291 million 150, 291 million pardon, 151 thousand kuna. The total increase in the value of the fund consists of realised and unrealised profits for 2007. The total realised profit is 195 million 356 thousand kuna of which 183 million kuna refers to the HT dividend for 2007 which was paid to the fund on two occasions during 2007. The second part is Ina's dividend of 9 million 156 thousand while the third part of the interest income is worth 11 million 631 thousand kuna. These realised revenues have been reduced for realised expenditure totalling 8 million kuna 619 thousand, which is a management fee. The total management fee is 0.238%, so I'm going to repeat 0.238% and that's an amount of 8 million 619 thousand kuna. This fee is paid by a depositary bank of 0.045% or one million 630 thousand kuna while the management company remains a net fee of 0.193% or 6 million 986 thousand kuna. The largest share of the value increase in assets stems from unrealised profits which are the growth in Ina stock prices during 2007 from the HT stock market census in October 2007. In accordance with the legal provisions and with the decision of the Management Board of the Fund and of the HANF and with the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the realised profit of the Fund for 2007 amounting to 195 million kuna will be paid as follows. One third of the Croatian Foundation for the Scholarship of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and Croatian Foundations from the Homeland War and members of their families in proportion to 40:60% in the amount of 26 million and 47 thousand 466 kuna for the Scholarship Fund and 39 million 71 thousand 200 kuna for the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War. Next. One third of the members of the dividend fund and one third will be reinvested in the fund. As you know, this is the third year that we've submitted a business report, so the third year is actually the last year of moratorium, i.e. legal bans on the participation of the Croatian Defence Fund. The deadline expires on 12 April 2008. What I have mentioned everywhere by reading this short report, business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund, the Croatian Defence Fund and the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War Foundation and members of their families. The distribution of one-third of the realised profit in terms of 40% for the scholarship fund and 60% for the foundation provided the conditions for the establishment of the 2006 grant fund and the Croatian Defence Fund. On 10 January 2007, the decision was taken to grant scholarships after the invitation to tender for the academic year 2006 and 2007. Scholarships were actually distributed as follows: For secondary schools 1966, for higher graduates, so for universities 966 and 40, participation of costs, part of expenses for postgraduate studies. Total divided and paid 2 000 972 support. The scholarships for high school were at the time 200 kuna, and for the university 500. In total, it was paid from one-third, 40% of the one-third of the realised profit of 9 million 39 thousand and 400 kuna. The scholarship fund is re-published on 22 September 2007 for the award of scholarships and after regular secondary education, regular university and professional studies and for the award of a part of the tuition fee of postgraduate studies at higher schools for the academic year 2007/2008. A year. The deadline for submission of applications was 23 October, and on 21 November after all requests were processed, a decision was taken on the selection of candidates for individual scholarships and a decision on compensation for part of the fees. Now scholarships for high school, for regular high school education are 400 kuna, scholarships for college are thousands of kunas, and participation of part of the costs remained the same in the amount of the original division of 7 thousand kuna. So the fund raised scholarships to 100%. The amount of the first split is granted, and is now paid on a regular basis, 4000 779 scholarships in secondary school, for regular university and regular university students and professional studies of 2 000 251 and part of the expenses for the after-graduate study 15 total of 7000 045 scholarships. If we count those 2,000 972 you'll get the number over 10,000 scholarships divided or approved a scholarship fund. For the payment of approved scholarships, it will be available in 2008, in fact for this academic year with 41 million 783 thousand 995 kuna. And something else in the end about the trust. The Foundation "Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families" according to its law, according to its sublaws, has granted financial assistance according to the following priorities. In the event of a major accident and a fire, care and treatment, in the event of death, in the case of a serious material, financial situation, for the acquisition of first profession, requalification and retraining in the system of extraordinary schooling, for employment and self-employment and for the life insurance of Croatian defenders, therefore, two thousand 486 applications with a total amount of 5 million 341 thousand and 59 kuna were granted for each purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4108	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The chairman of the Veterans Committee, Honored Representative Ante Kotromanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4109	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, fellow MPs and MPs! The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 1st session held on 21 February 2008 discussed the business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and by members of their families by act of 6 February 2008. Introductory representative of the rapporteur presented the basic features of the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families in 2007. In the discussion, committee members unanimously supported the report and expressed satisfaction with the successful operations of the fund. The biggest problem is the convergence of moratories on the availability of shares, i.e. on 12 April 2008 for the sale of the same by the fund members. The fear of real danger from the fall in the value of the fund's assets by more than 50% has been expressed, leading to the shut-down of the fund itself. This would result in negative consequences and major damages, as the fund for the scholarship and foundation of Croatian defenders financed from part of the acquisition of the Croatian defence fund would also be shut down, and the transfer of part of the shares of legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia by the Privatisation Act would be impossible for the transfer to the fund itself. For example, HEP, Croatian forests, HRT, Croatian roads etc. It has been concluded that in the public stands, defenders and family members need to have negative consequences that they can have in the case of the sale of shares and convince them to retain the shares because it is certain that the assets of the fund will grow through the stabilisation of the capital markets and the privatisation of public enterprises owned by the Republic of Croatia and by transferring part of their shares into the portfolio of the fund. It is also necessary to consider the legal possibilities of delaying the expiry of moratorium. For the purposes of the presented Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Management Board of the Fund and this Committee... a way that this does not happen at the same time in the light of the constitutional right of the members of the fund to have ownership, in this case to the shares of the fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to accept a business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4110	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. The first club is SDP and respected representative Ante Kotromanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4111	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues, dear colleagues. The Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families is a very important thing for the future and existence of defenders. A good idea created during the former coalition government, realised during the HDZ government, would have to experience its expansion, the positive one, during this four-year period. By reading this business report, I found the future of the fund very questionable. Today, no one in the country can say with certainty that the Croatian Defence Fund will look there by the end of this year. We don't know if he'll exist at all, and we also don't know if the government has a policy prepared and answered what, when and how with the fund? That's why I think we should have looked for solutions a long time ago and not wait for the last moment, and we know that the moratorium is April 12th this year. It was almost the first three years of business of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families, and we have only two shares in the fund, from HT and INA, which accounts for around 92.84% of the assets. We don't know when or what stock we're going to get into the fund, and it's very easy to stay on these if the fund stops working. Then we have 107 million kunas in bonds or 2,48% of assets and we have about 196 million kunas in deposits with two foreign banks or about 4,57% of assets. Namely, the auditor's report as well as the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund states: "In case the net assets fall 50% below the net assets average of the funds in the last six months, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must make a decision on the liquidation of the fund.". A number of questions and encouraging dangers are based on this. I'll just list some. First, as with the current value of the fund, given that the value of the shares has fallen significantly, the total value of the defence fund is also reduced. From the New Year's Eve until today, the defence fund is worth less than about 10% or about 500 to 600 million kuna due to the decline in stock value on the market. Secondly, what are the expectations regarding the possibility of withdrawing the defence stake from the fund. On April 12th, this year, the deadline for banning the fund's stakes expires. Has anyone tried to assess whether the Fund's board of directors has done anything to obtain information on how many defenders will try to cash in their shares in the fund in the first days after 12 April. Do we have any polls? Have we prepared any direction for the defenders to help them make the decision easier? The situation on the stock market is very dimming and the material position of the defence population is unenviable, so we can say with a lot of probability that very quickly in the midst of the contemplation of the defenders with values... to further reduce the fund. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If 33% of defenders would request payment of the stake in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's fund, they would have to make a decision to liquidate the fund. Whether the prices of HT and INA shares will remain the same as today, that is a big question. What will happen when the ban on the availability of HT shares and the agreement of the arrangements expires in April and the defence fund has to sell shares of HT and INA to defendrs. So today, it is assumed that the Defence Fund will sell its shares of INA and HT which will have a bad impact on the price of all shares on the market. Of course, it is difficult to predict this, but a large supply of HT and INA shares on the market will suddenly significantly reduce the stock price, so the value of the fund's assets will be significantly lower than that of 31.12.2007. In addition, the whole process would take place at a very unfavourable moment when these shares are at least 20% lower than their best quotations due to the crisis in the capital market. What would happen in the event of the fund being liquidated? In order for defenders to reach the other shares provided for by law, these are Croatian forests, water, HTV, HEP and other state-owned enterprises. From which will be financed the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and their children and foundations of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families who received significant funds from the Fund last year and we have heard this from the secretary which is absolutely very commendable and valuable. Whether or not we should have put the defence property in this kind of fund, that's a question for a new expert debate. In half a year, or two, or five years, it doesn't matter, but the defenders will charge their stakes in the fund and the fund must be shut down. There's no more money for a defense trust or a scholarship fund. An institution that should have remained on the financial market and served defenders through the results of the business will be lost but will serve general interest by investing its assets in economic programmes from which defenders and all Croatian citizens will benefit multiple times. With long-term investment, the benefits would be more lasting and much greater. The Fund should have a developmental character, survive on the market and invest in economic projects. What and how do you do it? So far we have not heard the word of experts, fund managers, bankers what they think about the future of the defence fund, in which segments need to change the law on this fund so that it remains on the financial market permanently, that it benefits the defence population permanently and that it works developmentally through investing its capital in domestic economic projects. Whether it should be through some kind of open or closed fund or through some other form of organization, I don't know. On behalf of the SDP Club, I propose that the Management Board hires experts from Ersta investa but also Zagrebačka banka, HANFA, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and other institutions that could help define the model of future formation of assets belonging to defenders under the law and today is located in the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, as well as the amendment of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund which would define different status. It's about 4 billion kuna worth of perspective and much higher value today, it's about capital that's more than respectable. On the way it is organised, investment should have a serious expert study, especially in a situation where the fund's liquidation and sale of total assets threatens in this year. In the end, the club will support this report but we stress that one good idea must not fail, we must not allow tycoons of the Homeland War waiting as hyenas to ambush somewhere else to profit and buy shares at a low price. So together, let us appeal for a solution and a model of survival and strengthening of the defence fund for all of the above reasons to be found by 12 April. Let's appeal to the defenders all on the left and right so they don't rush the sale. I'm gonna end up with that one of our saying, "Defenders, no sales, no surrender!". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4112	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the distinguished representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4113	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of fellow MPs who said that the government does not have a clear vision of fund management. The government and should not have a vision of fund management because it does not manage the fund, the fund is managed by the board of directors of the fund, which acts as we have heard from the State Secretary's presentation of seven members. Of these seven members are four representatives of associations stemming from the Homeland War. So they have a majority on the board of directors and practically they manage the fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4114	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4115	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the 2007 Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families. The financial report is transparently and fully confirmed by an independent auditor and realistically demonstrates the operations of the fund in 2007. The report shows that the fund works very successfully, fulfils the purpose for which it was established and that the management board of the fund through the management company led the right management policy of the fund in the interest of the owner of the participation in the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families. That this is indeed such a best confirmation is the fact that the assets of the fund, which amounted to 2 billion and 100 million kuna on 31 December 2007, are doubled and are worth 4 billion 236 million kuna. During 2007, the fund earned a net profit of 190 million kuna, which will be distributed in accordance with the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. Therefore, defenders and members of their families, in addition to the value of their personal participation in the Fund within 2 years, can also expect a dividend to be paid for the previous period, given that the extensive work on the register of Croatian defenders has also been completed. Special commendation should be given to the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Minister and Vice-Presidents of the Government, which successfully completed the ungrateful work of making a register of Croatian defenders from which the previous governments had raised hands and often had been politically instrumentalised and that Croatia only 12 years after the end of the Homeland War, has a basic document for the successful functioning of the Croatian Defence Fund as well as for the work of the restoring ministry. What is important for the defence population is the foundation and successful functioning of the Croatian Defence Fund best confirmed by the existence of the Defence Fund and their children and the foundations of Croatian defenders who are founded and financed from a third of the profits achieved by the operations of the Croatian Defence Fund and who would not be not if it were not for the Croatian Defence Fund. What is the significance of the Fund for Scholarship and Foundations is seen also by providing funding for 10 thousand student and student scholarships in two years, and that the amount of scholarship from the original 200 and 500 kuna has been increased to 400 and 1000 kuna. And through the foundation of Croatian defenders, about 5.5 million kuna has been allocated through one-time assistance for various humanitarian, health and social needs. 2008 is crucial for the future of the Croatian Defence Fund, as the three-year legal moratorium expires on 12 April on banning the availability of shares in the Fund and there is a real danger of the fund and shutting down if the value of the property falls below 50%. The Management Board of the Fund in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Associations of the Homeland War should take all possible steps to ensure that this does not happen. Because such a set of events is not in the interest of Croatian defenders. The existence and successful functioning of the Croatian Defence Fund and thus the Fund for the scholarship and foundations of Croatian defenders whose value of the property in the future will certainly increase further are a guarantee of safety for numerous families of Croatian defenders, but are also a guarantee that children of Croatian defenders will have secured scholarships for regular schooling. It will continue to be possible to finance various social, humanitarian, health and other needs of Croatian defenders and members of their families through the Croatian Defence Foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4116	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4117	I would only correct an incorrect quote by my colleague, Ivić, when he, he said that the defence registry was finished, the defence register is not yet, it's not finished yet, just for two reasons. First because there are still many procedures for recognising the status of defenders, whether it will be difficult to end it for a certain period of time. And secondly, the Office for Psychosocial Assistance in Zagreb, in Prečka there are over 4, 5, thousands... which are not assigned to the defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's still going on, and I think it's going to take more time for it to end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4118	Thank you. We have another replica of Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4119	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd like to fully agree with my colleague, Ivić. And he needs to get out of his exposure what's most important. And I think it is important that we remind the defenders, the disabled, the Croatian military disabled, who sold various bags of goods to which they were entitled and which they had achieved, and we all know that these people with disabilities went through their sales and that this is one lesson and to Croatian defenders how they can pass in case they sell their shares. Also, the three most important motives that defenders do not sell shares are certainly the excellent functioning of the Fund and the Foundation for the Scholarship of Defence Children double the value of the Fund's share over the past period, and the income that will be achieved by the holders of the share through dividend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4120	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4121	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4122	Thank you. Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go. It's a debate. Thank you. Mr. Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4123	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so I would first point out that the permanent concern about the rights of Croatian defenders is our obligation and that is more than evident in the debates in the Croatian Parliament so far. The business report and the debate on the Croatian Defence Fund is also important not only because of the formal fact that the value of the Fund is 31. 12. In 2007, it increased to an amount of 4.2 billion kuna. During the past period, the Croatian Defence Fund has experienced its full affirmation through the work of the Croatian Defence Foundation and especially through the Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund. This fact that during the work of the Croatian Defence Fund, especially through the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders, children of Croatian defenders, those who grow up, those who have the task of permanently transferring the truth about how the Croatian state was created in the Homeland War. And this institution of the Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund, I would say, has a particularly important and lasting value that needs to be preserved in every way possible. What is registered under the financial report should be repeated and highlighted in 2007 the realised profit of the Croatian defence fund through dividends mainly belonging to HT and INI in the amount of 190 million kuna is a very important and significant financial amount. The fund for the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders so far has, as it says here in the Report, awarded over or almost 10 thousand scholarships totaling around 8 million kuna. Of these, 6 thousand 700 demands were related to high school. 3240 applications for colleges and 60 requests for participation of the costs of postgraduate studies. Given the significant funds that have a fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders. I would point out in particular that in my future work this fund can be more ambitious in order to make it possible, in the field of education of children of Croatian defenders, and especially Croatian defenders, to make their better positioning in the long term in Croatian society through quality knowledge, through expertise and through everything that needs to be demonstrated that these people who created the Croatian state, who defended the Croatian state, can successfully defend Croatia's state of knowledge, the state of knowledge as often as we can say in the future. The positioning of these people, these children, is very important. However, the entire project is threatened by the real danger that is highlighted here. On 12 April 2008, a part of the Croatian defenders may happen by consummating the right to sell their shares leads to a situation that no one wants and which we hope will not happen may be part of an exit strategy leading to the liquidation of the fund. Of course, in that sense, we need the stands, better information. That's not controversial. In this regard, the Croatian Defence Ministry provides all the necessary information in order to make its decisions equally mature, equally responsible, I would say to the same brave as it was in 1991. Croatian defenders today after 12 April 2008 defended their interests through the protection and preservation of the long-term Croatian Defence Fund. It is not only in the interest of Croatian defenders. It is in the interest of all of us and it is in the interest of the Croatian state especially because of the part relating to the education and scholarship of children of Croatian defenders. In that sense, I would suggest something concrete. Perhaps much more comprehensive than public stands, compared to messages and debates. It seems to me that given the importance and importance of this fund, we have an appropriate communication strategy, as we have a communication strategy that affects the formation of Croatian people's attitudes, Croatian citizens when it comes to NATO and the European Union. I believe that a well-designed and profiled communication strategy of April 12th and beyond can ensure that part of the message that will ensure that Croatian defenders make a decision to protect their interests in the Croatian Defence Fund because it is in the interest of not only Croatian defenders, but it is in the common interest that this institution has equally successful, functional and long-term work in the future. Therefore, I am sure that in view of everything that the Croatian government has done in the past, in order to affirm the work of this fund, the Croatian government will do everything to ensure that its work continues equally successfully in the future in the interests of Croatian defenders and in the interest of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4124	We have one replica. Mr. Shime Luchin. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4125	Thank you very much. I couldn't agree more with my colleague, Cosic. However, we have a little bit to say dissonant tones. On the one hand, we had Mr. Ivic's correction, say the government doesn't have a foothold and she has nothing to look for in the fund, and at the same time we hear Mr. Cosic that the government should do everything to keep the fund. And I actually answered the line. I think it's okay for the appeals, the stands, the conversations to try to motivate the defenders not to leave the fund, or to withdraw their stakes. But it also seems to me that it's not enough. It should also be materialized in a certain way to say that defenders are trying to explain that staying in that fund means a long-term and greater gain than they could get if they come out of the fund right now. And maybe with some calculation I'm even concrete indicators of so-called material interest that this fund doesn't fall apart. Because I'm not convinced that only the appeals to keep everything out of something concrete and concrete indicators will be able to motivate a good part of the defender to stay in that fund. After all, the structure of the defence attorneys does not differ much from the structure of Croatian citizens. So you saw when the shares of HT began to slide down you had a mass exit of Croatian citizens from the stock market, or you had to sell those shares. I'm afraid that doesn't happen with the stakes in the fund. So I'm appealing to try and actually try with some concrete moves to motivate the defenders to stay in the fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4126	Thank you. Answer Mr. Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4127	So I emphasized.../The speaker shut down and re-enabled./... that Croatian defenders will know how to make the right decision as they did in 1991. In addition, I do not exclude, as I said, the need for a well-designed communication strategy that should support all those objectives that we have talked about and which are clearly stated in the introduction of the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4128	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Josip Djakic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4129	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So here is the Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families for 2007 in which everything the Fund and the Management Board of the Fund have done over the past 2007 is clearly specified. In fact, it is apparent that the fund doubled almost its value today from the initial 2005 period of 2 million and 109832 kuna in 2006 already to 2 million and 945000 kuna in 2007 to four billion kuna and 299 million kuna, which resulted in an increase in shares in the market by listing the HT shares on the Zagreb Stock Exchange by including the INA shares in the London Stock Exchange, and this all contributed to the huge value of the shares from which the profits that were formed and the Fund for Scholarshipships and the Fund for Aid in the Socially-Employed categories of Croatian defenders, of course, were defined and agreed on the Management Board of the Fund. It is evident that the fund works impeccably, that both the foundation and the purpose of the scholarship have contributed to a great contribution to improving the status conditions of the lives of Croatian defenders and to the scholarship of their children and themselves, as well as to social assistance in those most invisible situations, as well as in situations of elementary disasters, fires as well as all other diseases that require the help of those who do not exceed those in their families by a thousand 899 kuna. In fact, the 10,000 scholarships sent through these forms to our children of our defenders are certainly a major contribution to this kind of structure, operation and work. I must stress in this debate that the fund actually started working on 12 April 2005, it was then established and then its activity begins. Until then there were ideas, it's exactly as I heard from Mr. Kotromanovic that the idea came back to life in the coalition government. It's true, she came back to life in the defense population. The defenders proposed, but the framework and the law under which this fund would be implemented and established were never passed. The fund's statutes have not been passed either. Not all acts that would talk about it have been adopted nor the shares of HT or Ina that the Government of Ivo Sanader has done in the past. Today, the same thing when we experience that we have come to an act where the possibility and termination of the monitors and the possibility of selling and alienating our defenders' shares comes into question, surely we want to appeal to them all together not to do so. Doing so, by arriving to 50% of the shares offered on the stock exchange, the government is necessary and mandatory to liquidate the fund because it can no longer exist. Then you lose the treasured purpose, then you lose the scholarship. Then the dividends are lost, and the defense register is complete and the actual dividend will go into payment in this first quarter. That's what you're not saying right now. The dividend is not God-knows-how big, but it will certainly contribute annually to improving the standards of the lives of Croatian defenders. I want to appeal not to alienate the stock. And all these terrible appeals for the publication of the register of Croatian defenders must certainly have a double function for those who seek it. And they are also asking that those bags that want to buy and act hostilely towards the Croatian Defence Fund, have an insight into who they will offer their services to, and thus acquire stock packages in both Ina and HT, and this should also be prevented and clearly here in this House of Commons and said. Present to Croatian defenders, which is the goal in the end if the fund is announced and the individuals are acquired 7% of HT and Ina shares. We have to think about it, and I believe that there will be solutions to not selling 50%, that 50% of the defenders still stay in the fund and continue to receive dividends and that children from the scholarship fund continue to be scholarshipd, as if they were still using a trust fund to all those who needed it. I would therefore like to say that, as the Committee on War Veterans unanimously brought and accepted the report on this work of the Fund in 2007, as the Committee on War Veterans, on which the representatives of the Associations, appealed to everyone not to sell their shares, because they will certainly grow even more in the further privatisation of Croatian companies, and more in the function of the population of Croatian defenders and I urge this way not to alienate their stakes in the fund because through them, the population of Croatian defenders and their families as well as children will surely live, have a safe future and have values that are inalienable and should not be quickly devoid of all that is well created in their interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4130	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mrs. Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4131	Well, for the sake of truth, I will correct the inaccuracies of fellow Djakic that nothing of the first coalition government, because even now we have a coalition government, has been done. Namely, no laws on the privatisation of Ina, HEP and even before HT have been passed, which found that 7% of the shares are transferred to defenders could not be established by the fund. My colleague remembers well because he himself participated in this through the defense associations, that at the time Paula Kalinic proposed to this House the Law on the Defence Fund, and only when the conditions for the Fund to be able to dispose of certain assets were established. It was the end of the government's mandate, this government of the past continued this process, which is good and good. Therefore, what we have done well in continuity should not be valued.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4132	Thank you. Correction Mr. Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4133	My colleague Djakic said I'll try to quote, the fund is working immaculately. I only say in one part, the problem might be in the fund's administration. We should have responded earlier not to wait for the last 30 days, so let's do something, now we all appeal together because we know that the problem is the very functioning of the fund at all, but maybe the management fund was a little earlier on what Cosic was talking about and what we were all talking about together, appeal in various ways, encourages various initiatives to explain to the defenders that the fund must survive in this sense here I am correcting my colleague Djakic. And the other thing, he was saying something about the defense registry... Some enemies I think are open defence registers and because of the fund should be published for the sake of the truth, we don't, I don't think that when we talk about defenders and when we guys are in this, in the Homeland War which is absolutely one important thing and the most important thing in the Croatian state, we don't have enemies internally, we have to talk about the truth and fight for the truth only. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4134	Thank you. And finally we have Mr. Golden Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4135	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, here is the report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund and there is something difficult to say about the report itself because it has been confirmed by the state auditor, the authorised auditor. There's a number of data that I don't doubt is correct. So technically everything's fine. However, it seems to me to be missing, and I'm sure there is one problem in that report in terms of the fund's work. We know that many defenders weren't satisfied with the distribution of shares, that's not what we're talking about. So it's not some question that's being raised, but it's simply a fact-finding number, and that report comes here to the Parliament. I don't think that we have fulfilled that obligation when we talk about the work of the fund and that in that sense some future reports should affect the problem a little bit more widely, not just to count, to establish a practically existing situation and not to go further and further away from it. There were a lot of words here, I won't, I thought I'd talk more, but I hear that other fellow MPs looked back on April 12th and all those problems that are opening up that day, and it's really true that we're discussing on March 7th what's going to happen on April 12th. It's just too late and I'd like to get into this problem that opens up after 12 April sure there will be a lot of those who want to sell those shares. I don't doubt that the defenders know exactly what they're going to do I think in that sense a little bit should just point out the consequences that are followed by it, but I think the Ministry and, of course, the Management Board of the Fund must be involved, as well as the Government and give one vision of what it means when we have 95% in the fund we have shares of HT and INA without any further vision of how to increase the number of these shares. Because if there were more shares, if there were more of those who entered that fund then there would be no fear of market disturbances if there was a sudden sale of shares of HT and INA. So in this sense many of these open questions that are not presented with this report and that are not mentioned here today. And to end up in a way because there's a lot of things being said. Here on the last page, it is said that the end of 2007 society received the final version of the Croatian Defence Register from the Homeland War and members of their families. I do not agree with my colleague Djakic here to release the fund, forgive that register, to offer various bags to buy shares. Those who want to do this are certainly not waiting for that register. But in the publication of the register, we all know, they're looking for the defenders themselves, and I think it would be a good idea to publish it without respecting such arguments as it was said today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4136	Thank you. We have a replica of Mr. Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4137	He'd like to replicate his colleagues in this one when he was talking about the score system. We open the story all the time about the score system. I think he's terribly unfair, that this system of score absolutely insults the people who are warriors, who spent all their time in trenches, so I'll just say for example. In the '94 Winter, which we worked up together and Djakić and this team of ours up in Dinari, the '94 Winter Operation, which lasted 27 days, killed 29 dead members of the Croatian Army and we got only one point. That means one point, like those people sitting in an office in Zagreb, in Krapina, Sinj, I don't know where else. So we're constantly opening that story and I want to change that credit system that I think is terribly unfair for those people, for the combat units, for the special police, for the Guard brigades, all those people who spent five years in a trench, and who could have been killed several thousand times a day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4138	Thank you. Mr. Horvat's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4139	I didn't realize maybe until the end of the line. That's exactly what I wanted to point out, because of this unfair distribution of shares and irregular points, that we have a great dissatisfaction with the defender. And that's not said at all in this report. It's actually like everything's okay and it's like, and when we look at those numbers there's really all right. I have no doubt about those figures that are presented here. But that particular question that you said should be raised in a particular debate, in a special report, to point out that and to open that question and to make those injustices right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4140	Thank you. Does he want a correction of an incorrect quote? I thought he quit. It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4141	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I can't, I'd love to give up, I wouldn't take my time, but here, just a little bit. It is incorrect that this report is not correct, that it is not thorough, that it is not complete, that it is not comprehensive. What it says is, it just needs to be read and analyzed and everything will be known. And one more thing. He'd make it right if it weren't for the defense organizations to ask themselves to adopt the rules on the score. They're the ones who put a score like this on the scoreboard. They've made a decision that's how it's going to be a score. The coordination of associations stemming from the Homeland War has proposed a way to score. What individuals think is their right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4142	Thank you. And final. In conclusion, Mr. Krunoslav Mesarić, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4143	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! No, I was a debt in the opening statement. I won't be now. I am only pleased to note in front of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity that you have seen the importance and quality of the programme as well as the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and the Scholarship and Foundation Fund. Because of the truth, the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War with, the president also served as Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs Jadranka Kosor for the first time, the Management Board met on 19.3.2004. Not before that. Earlier, this House adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund so that it could function at all. After that, 7% of the INA shares and 7% of HT shares were introduced by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister or the Chairman of the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund. Most importantly, I'm glad you're thinking about 12.4.2008, but through all the reports, and also in this House of Commons, we emphasized that it is coming, this moratorium is three years in accordance with Article 31. Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. And finally next. This High House, the Croatian Parliament passed all the laws by which it is not possible to publish the Croatian Defence Register. I wouldn't go any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-07-0.u4144	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! So, today we end the session and continue on Wednesday at 9:30. I announced yesterday that I could do this item on agenda 10. Report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the negotiations activities with the European Union and the protected eco-fishing band, the SDP promoter, to start as a first point in the morning. I've been informed by the Prime Minister that due to his duties for visits, foreign visits, he may be in the Assembly at 3:00. So I announce these other agenda points that we skipped, and the debate on ZERP begins at 3:00 in the presence of the Prime Minister. Thank you very much and good luck. We have a Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2007. The debate is closed, I am voting on the following conclusion: A Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2007. Who's in favor of this proposal for a conclusion? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? Thank you. The conclusion with 128 votes was accepted, unanimously.
