ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16856	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. You are therefore facing one of the laws which determines the professions that have been settled at European Union level as a unique profession and which, at a certain level, in the European Union countries, are in accordance with both qualifications and competences, is fully uniform in terms of equal relationship, expertise, knowledge and implementation of healthcare in that segment. So what's this about? In the Republic of Croatia, there has been a traditional activity of recipients for many years but is at the level of secondary education. In this way, by looking at European directives where 10+3 is added in a way that is eight years of primary education, two years of general education in high school, two years of professional education, which was once our 8+4 and a year of traineeship after which we passed a professional exam where we formally met basic part 10+3 in primary education. However, for the profession of recipients at European level as considered a European recipient and in the follow-up of today's conversation, we will list a European recipient so that we can distinguish that there will be no confusion in that education is still complemented by a minimum of 3 years of professional study, with some countries also going towards university studies so that European recipients have all the competences provided for by the directives. It's Directive 36 of 2005. In such a way in the course of negotiations, it turns out that Croatian recipients who do not work alone at the moment, means they are currently working on basic primate levels, but as part of the gynecologist team, they have no competence to automatically recognise the status of a European recipient because it is a completely different level of education. Facing such a fact and dealing with the circus of a thousand and 800 people working means as a recipient in Croatian health and definitely not having competences in Croatian legislation which competences have European recipients already have competences at the level of secondary, secondary schooling, it was necessary to distinguish it somehow. To maintain the tradition of Croatian primacy that exists together with the professional school of midwives but also to assume the obligations that negotiations with the European Union impose as such. In this way, the process started first in preparation for the study of primacy and the first study of primacy was opened in Rijeka, at the University of Rijeka. The second study is in preparation and is expected to open also soon in Zagreb where the recipients at the level of the European primates would be educated. On the other hand, in the need of unifying professions in agreement with the Professional Education Agency, it was defined that the recipient working on a team with a gynecologist and under this proposal of a new law on the team with a European recipient, so let's call it, that he acquires the calling of assistants which is acceptable by the European Union, which is also acceptable on our part where 1800 recipients who at the moment do not have competences do not lose their profession already have a solidly defined profession, the profession of the recipient of assistants. In the development of primacy in Croatia, as the higher primary school had already been abolished, a number of recipients continued their education through expert studies of nurses. For this reason, further negotiations require a transitional period where, with certain supplements of education, but this time short-term and one number of Croatian recipients that have worked in place so far, means what is called the recipient assistant, where they could acquire competences based on years of work that we like to say acquired rights, but here it is nicer to say years of work in the profession, years of acquiring skills in practice where, in such a way, with an additional education that is now in agreement with the European Commission, it could also be recognised the status of a European recipient. Why does it matter? It's not just important from some recognition of acquired rights because so far they've been able to do a certain job, and from now on they wouldn't. It's not, it's not going that way at all. Recipients who have done part of the job so far continue to do their part of the job with the name of the recipient’s assistant profession and there is no change. The European recipient has completely other competences and responsibilities. For this reason, not only can administrative recipients impose these rights and responsibilities on the assistant for a purely simple reason that the European recipient under the European Union's directive, and thus is regulated in the countries of Europe, has the practical competence to complete the management of physiological pregnancies. It is estimated that they are safe on average in the European Union over 70% of the pregnancy is physiological. In this way, the European Union has reduced the pressure of what is happening physiologically means naturally to gynecologists and obstrectors and thus handed over to one group, one profession responsible for the management of this. The European recipient must therefore be able to identify in, any shift in pregnancy that could go towards any pathology and anywhere that would require the entry of gynecologists into the pregnant woman. Where any surgery or any other condition could affect normal pregnancy and then shift from the competence of the recipient to the competence of gynecologists and obstressors. Such a regulated system that has been shown over a number of years in Europe is a good system as is somehow required by a directive from the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, you have before you a proposal for a law on midwives, which clearly defines what the recipient is an assistant and what is the level of education. What is a recipient whom, today I mention as a European recipient in the Republic of Croatia, is what is the way of competence and responsibility where it should be reminded that the recipient – an assistant he works on a team with a specialist gynecologist or with a midwife, a European recipient or a primal first degree as the title is obtained after a completed professional study. And so those who will control, who will prescribe standards to be a chamber of public authority. So, which will arrange the primacy area in Croatia. Clearly, in such a law, the law is modelled by the rest of our laws on professions. The closest law is the Law on Nurses, and for every further question about these consents, we are at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16857	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16858	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 10th session, the Health and Social Care Committee discussed the matter as a home working body pursuant to Article 76. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The activity of the recipient under this law as part of the integrated part of the overall health care and of the special professional group within the health care sector has not been properly resolved so far, therefore it has not been regulated. Because of the importance of providing primal care which affects the performance and quality of the entire health services and given the long tradition of income in Croatia as well as the different approaches so far in the education of board members supported such a solution and supported this law. This means that the adoption of a special law for each professional group in the health care system will be fully harmonised by the members of the board. The proposal, the committee members pointed out, for the first time the content and method of action of the recipient is defined by a special law. All that is not governed by this special law in an appropriate manner by the interpretation of the legislator is determined and applied by the Health Protection Act. The proposal defines and harmonizes with European rules on education, competence and responsibilities of recipients. The association of recipients in the professional chamber guarantees quality control and performance monitoring in the primal profession. During the debate, a question of the position of recipients now in a working relationship has been raised, which will not meet the conditions for doing business by way of effect of this law. As explained by the proposaler's representative in the knowledge and skills catalogue, as provided for by this law, the recipient who is now doing the job will become the recipient of the assistant. After an extensive debate, board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Primacy in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16859	Thank you. Do the other committees want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16860	Mr. President and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the proposal for a law on primacy with the Final Bill that is in line with EU legislation, and will support it. We heard that by Directive 2005//2006 of the European Union. is guaranteed to persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one of the Member States access to the same profession and the same rights when performing that profession in another country. But the ease of providing services has to be ensured in the context of respect for public health. The recipient shall be provided for a single education system in all Member States. However, when setting up their education, countries should have maximum freedom. Primacy, as we have heard so far, has not had its own law, although primary care is a very important health service in the Republic of Croatia in the hospital system, and includes 24 hours of care for pregnant women, births, newborns, numerous diagnostic and therapeutic procedures with the timely reporting of doctors. Primacy in Croatia has a long tradition, longer than a sisterhood. It is well mentioned, and in the area of Croatia was found in Vranjica near Solina monument Elia Suite from ancient times, which is the oldest monument in our region. During the 18th century, in the Republic of Croatia, the first Privilege course was held by the Varazdin physician Ivan Baptizer Lalangue, who published the first Privilege textbook for rural women who wanted to deal with the primacy titled “Short teaching from the mestolic of the navel. ” The oldest school in, therefore, was once a practice in rural areas, and today 99% of births are carried out in hospital institutions. The oldest school in Croatia founded in 1786 in Rijeka. She held out for a year because she was private and had no state support. In 1821, the first primary school began in Zadar, and then the entire province of Dalmatia had one primate. Today in the Republic of Croatia we have 1760 recipients and so far we have not had a law as we have heard about primacy but their profession has been governed by certain provisions of the Health Protection Act governing the work of the recipients as part of the primary health care team. After finishing high school, they continued their training as nurses. 1,000 midwives work as nurses. After harmonising with the European Union legislation, the entry into force of the law shall become the recipient of an assistant and may only work under supervision which may be carried out by a recipient who has the right of valid approval by the Chamber of Independent Works or by a specialist in gynecology and Obstetrication. So obviously education is the foundation. The education of first-graders is obtained by successful completion of a professional undergraduate study for the occupation of first-graders. We heard that from Mr. Secretary of State. Members of the Croatian Democratic Community Club specifically pointed out the duties of the recipients provided by the Member States. It's very important to see what the width of the first-rate recipient can do. Therefore, the first appropriate information on family planning is appropriate. Diagnostics of pregnancy, follow-up, reviewing the need to monitor the development of the normal course of pregnancy. Prescribing or consulting on the examinations necessary for the earliest possible diagnosis of risk pregnancy. Implementation of parenting programmes, preparation for delivery, including advice on nutrition hygiene. Care and assistance to the mother during delivery and monitoring of fetal status in the uterus. Conducting spontaneous births including ebithiotomy in emergency birth-to-mature cases. Recognitions of signs that warn of an irregularity in the mother or child seeking medical advice. An examination of him and his newborn child, his mother and child, giving advice. So, a very wide area of action. After all, it is evident that each receiving will have to have a broad medical education and a great moral and ethical professional responsibility. Therefore, it would mention Article 15 of the Law contains a provision of private practice for recipients engaged in receiving with a completed primacy study which has been approved for independent work issued by the Croatian Chamber of Primaries. Article 21 which states that the recipient is not responsible for the unimplemented procedure in the event that, despite the knowledge and skills of the employer, the employer has not provided medicinal products, means, necessary accessories and technical equipment in accordance with minimum standards. So we're all clear about education, and we're asking if we have the possibility of educating the recipients in our midst. Last year, of course we have an open-air study in Rijeka, and will be in Zagreb soon. Therefore, according to the directive, primal training includes minimum regular training for midwives, covering at least three years of theoretical and practical education or, in particular, regular training for midwives lasting 18 months. Each country must decide for itself how it wants to educate a graduate recipient, but must satisfy the minimum education prescribed by the European Union Directive. In view of higher education, it is therefore necessary to mention, we have heard this before that the law regulates the status of recipients, organises a chamber, strengthens the role of recipients in public health, acts are based on ethical and professional principles, as we have said earlier. Given the high education of recipients, we believe it will contribute to the health of women, mothers, children, pregnant women, as well as to the most intelligent policy. Due to the above, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16861	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16862	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Reading the proposal for this law can in principle be said to be quite confusing. We have heard the opening argument here today, but it is not the goal of giving a vague law and then of coming to the secretary of state or someone already in front of the motionary and giving explanations, but it must all be written clearly in the law so that there is no confusion. I will share with you here some of the dilemmas that I did when I read the law, and I can see through which colleagues who appeared on behalf of the Croatian Medical Chamber. For example, the concept of receiving an assistant is mentioned and it is clearly stated in Article 13 that the work is being supervised by the Head of the Primal Care Team and the Doctor. From this it is quite clear that the existing mid-school recipient must be controlled by highly educated recipients and doctors. I have to admit, it seems a little too much. You know what our people say, "a lot of grandmas, a snotty kid." So we're going to have an assistant recipient, so we're going to have a recipient who's watching the team leader, so the doctor, so there's going to be a crowd in the delivery room. The matter is already complicated in Articles 14 and 15 where the recipient of the assistant is said to have the right to work independently. What's here now, I'm saying in the explanation we've heard something, but the law as it's written doesn't give clear instructions on how things are going to happen in the birthplace. Mr. Secretary of State gave some kind of explanation that sounds pretty simple this way, if this is how it's going to work, if this happens, then it's going to be like this, and it all sounds pretty good in theory, but practice can show quite something else. Here we have heard a variety of things from my predecessor convinced or read facts from the opening argument, and I, for example, have, in that opening argument, been pushed by one thing and I think it is offensive and confusing when I say, quote that "so far the work of the recipients has been subordinated to the will and attitudes of the superior doctors". So I wonder what that means? Well, I don't suppose the doctors sucked their attitudes out of a small finger, but they got them through a six-year-old college education, a year of traineeship, 4.5 years of specialization in gynecology of obstetrics. What does the will and attitude of a senior physician mean? Another observation that is not essential, but not bad to mention. The fact is, in law, you keep repeating the concept of a patient. I really don't know if the promoter knows something that I don't, but as far as I know, this is a segment of health care where only patients show up, not patients. By reading this bill, one who tries to figure out what the strategy is really about and how it will all seem in practice when it starts to apply, is actually wasting time and doing a useless job. And why is that? It's simply because this government in all segments, as well as in health care, shows that there is no strategy at all but introduces any kind of fire measures, but in a way that currently puts out the flames, but the sparks continue to simmer and only wait for a suitable opportunity for the flame to burst again. In health care, remember many decisions were made, withdrawn, tried, for example, by introducing an administrative fee, and the same fee was abolished. Today, participations are being introduced, and energy is being spent to prove that this government is socially extremely sensitive, hospitals' debts to suppliers reach a time limit of up to two years, drug debt is over a billion kuna, drugstores will be around 1.4 billion kuna by the end of the year. So as far as debts are concerned, what the people say is, "I owe as Greece" can be freely transferred to the term "I owe as much as our health care". Debt is a bit calmed down by the punishment of doctors who have written too many recipes or exceeded any other limit that the ministry has imposed on them, we demote our staff for work and education abroad, and we import healthcare workers from other countries. The health situation is bad, and the government's moves, unfortunately, do not lead to this situation being at least contained. The minister pulls out, but I say this under quotes as big as a house, just that people's attention from a bad health situation is drawing the daily harder struggle for a naked life. In a country where every day a growing number of people deal with thinking how many times in a week will eat meat, in a country where people literally bomb spectacles of imaginative names such as "maestro", "index", "diagnose" and similar things that don't necessarily happen, of course, that can make health collapse a second plan. But that certainly doesn't mean that it doesn't happen. Looking at everything in reality, it is simply no wonder that another law is passed without clearly defined guidelines, a law that will cause confusion in one of these sensitive segments of health and the law from which it can be read: That the existing fit of the recipient with the completed high school that we have, will no longer be able to carry out his job on his own or perhaps will, is now completely confusing, or that we will need, within a very fast time, a high education primal where we do not have and which we will probably start importing from other European Union countries. I'm really not xenophobic, but I think we can all agree that we can't afford to import labour from other countries besides all our unemployed. There can also be another problem in the birth which, when given birth that can, all of this can be quite acceptable until God gives us an emergency condition, we also talked about this on Friday when we discussed, the Health Protection Act, which is the problem of agreement. It is difficult to think and give instructions in a foreign language in emergency situations, and every woman who has given birth knows very well that if she carefully listens to the instructions of an experienced recipient that her birth will still go as easily as possible. That's why we in the Parliament today can send a clear message. Pregnant women in the course for easier delivery are not burned to learn terms such as: my sister broke my water, sister please help me etc. in the languages of the European Union, the countries of the European Union from which we assume that we will import a high volume. Because when panic starts, there's no time to explain or pantomime. Here's our representative of the Hungarian minority, when the recipient starts to yell, "It's him, it's her," right, that means print and don't choke your child, and that can happen in childbirth when we have imported primates. I fully understand the desire and need to bring the work of the recipient into line with the European Union, but nobody in the European Union will tell us how to align. We are the ones who need to come up with a way and make an adequate law that will allow quality primal activity to be carried out. I note that it is very important and as I said about a very sensitive segment of health care, because the recipients are the ones who simultaneously care about the life of the mother and child in a natural but also very risky process. A wrong step can lead to fatal consequences even when it comes to a healthy mother and a healthy child. It is precisely because of this sensitivity in the world today that gynecology is one of the professions in which the patients’ claims are most common and therefore it is extremely important to pass clear laws that will improve health care to a maximum extent that cannot be said for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16863	Thank you. We have two corrections. First is Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16864	Mr. President, an esteemed colleague mentions with a right correction, corrections to the bill regarding the patient's and patient's phonebook, although it may appear to be that soon, and it will be irrelevant. But first of all, I have to say that pregnancy and childbirth are one physiological condition, and actually the patient's noun is not like that, so it should be pregnant and delivery, right? There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16865	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16866	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague, probably in good faith, said a few incorrect allegations. First of all, he says there's a mix-up in the primal rankings in this law. It is not a mess in this law because it is a ranking prescribed from acts of the European Union and we are obliged to coordinate it and it is about creating order towards the degree of education, not any confusion. The second one says that health care is as much as Greece. I'd be very pleased if that were true, and it's not true. Noting that today's health debt is two billion less than the health debt that we inherited after the SDP government. Two billion is smaller than then. And the debt is reduced, not thanks to the re-granisation of funding, because it still needs to be re-granted, but thanks to the good budgeting. That's true. He says the minister pulls out that everyone's fighting for a naked life so they don't see what's in health care. And then what brings out the World Health Organization of a colleague, who said that we are among 200 countries in 20th place by the quality of availability and the poorest country among the first 50, and yet we are in 20th place.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16867	Thank you. It is up to the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16868	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I have to express my satisfaction that regarding the recipient as an extremely important profession in health care, we finally have a bill of law. But I also have to express dissatisfaction, because this finally applies just because the government is here for the first time actually realizing how important it is to the profession of the recipient, so it also proposed the Reception Act. It's not very special to me, I find it unclear why this law goes in the first and second readings of the urgent procedure when it comes to me on a very important issue. As much as I can agree on in some parts, and I think they're important with a colleague who had an exposure just before. The law should be fully understood at least for those to whom the law applies, for 1760 recipients in the Republic of Croatia. Now to me in many parts that matter, this law is not the clearest. I'm not going to set myself up about this here because of the correction that I'm not giving someone an opportunity to correct the exact quote, just to get the exact quote and report and raise that tile, but this law really in a lot more important parts is unclear. You may think that he will be unclear to the recipients or perhaps he is clear, where we have placed the recipients now of these valuable employees in Croatian healthcare who are currently working and performing their duties and I will say under the quotes "received" according to this law, because we do not have a recipient or as the secretary of state, European recipient or recipient of the EU, we do not have in Croatia. We currently have a recipient in the Republic of Croatia in the health care system, and we do not have what is proposed by this law. This law is being passed and I assume that most hands will be adopted as proposed, so by an urgent procedure. I am the only one who can appeal and probably the MPs will have comments and suggestions on certain provisions of this law that, of course, the Proposer, or the Government, accept them. But what I would like and would like, therefore, is that this law goes in the first reading, that we discuss it here at the session of the Croatian Parliament, that the Proposer should consider all the suggestions and suggestions that MPs make on this Law on Reception and therefore that the law goes into second reading. It is clear to me that the European Union is asking us to pass this law and that it requires it, that we are in "Zebitnost" and that this law is what we need exclusively, I would say only because of the European Union to bring it by emergency procedure. On the other hand, we do not, of course, pass the Primacy Act because of the European Union. We bring in, I want to believe, the Primacy Act because we need to edit this particular part of the health care system that applies to the recipient. But once again I say, I think that we should bring it in two readings, not by emergency procedure, and that after this debate is concluded, however, the applicant should consider all the suggestions raised in the debate. So let's go back to the fact that at this point we don't have a single recipient as defined in this bill. And those who do foster work, so it's very difficult for me to actually receive an assistant. Let's use that termology. So the recipient assistant, they are now 1760 in the Republic of Croatia. The primal study doesn't seem to have worked in Rijeka since last year, does it? Since last year he's been working at the Rijeka Primary Study or this, therefore, non-essential, three-year study. Therefore, only two or three years from now will we get the first fit, the first recipients to get a condition for receiving a first-grader. Therefore, Croatia has neither the recipient of the first-rate nor the EU recipient. We only have midwives assistants and that's 1760. And I'm sorry, I don't think it's exactly at least that it's correct and it's not fair to the recipients that are currently working or what this law calls primal assistants. In one part, it seems to me on the parent board, there was a question, and what about these women that are doing, which, in fact, as the law provides, is how to solve them. So it was said ten years of work and approval for independent work by the competent course of the Croatian Chamber of Receivers that is just being established. I'm a little bothered that even in this part of it for, I think the law should have determined, which means approval for independent work. This means approval for independent work, because all three categories must be approved for the independent work of the Croatian Chamber of Primaries. However, what are the conditions of the recipient's assistant and then the recipient of the first-timer, then the EU recipient or better said recipient, which criteria should be met in order to obtain the approval for independent work? I don't think we can leave it to the chamber, I don't think we can leave it to the competent ministry to set the criteria for these three categories of recipients, however, should be decidedly listed in the legal provisions. Furthermore, it seems to me that this law will not cost the state budget anything, i.e. it will cost only 140 thousand kuna and related to the annual and project of the Croatian Chamber of Receivers. However, if the proposer already proposes the law in a way that he is fully aware that there are no two categories of recipients but only one and that 1760 recipients are currently doing their job according to this new bill as a recipient assistant, then I think that the state budget should have provided money to ensure that these women who have the will, who want to be able to be educated and that the state finances their education. And not that the state, as it is now happening, that a large number of nurses actually have to make significant money out of their salary. I think it's about nine, ten grand to study for more nurses. But let's get back to the law. So we let the midwives go to school on their own. This won't be free. Or have the secretary of state deny me. Will the 1760 recipients of assistants allow education, education according to this law, so that those women who want to do so can enroll in a higher school, that they can enroll in a study, but that they can enroll in a study at the expense of the state budget? I wouldn't want it to be at the expense of the employer, 'cause then the hospitals would recharge their expenses. I think this is a matter of law, of compliance with the law with the European Union. This law should be passed by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I think that the state budget should provide money for the education of 1760 recipients, of course those who want it and that we cannot let that happen spontaneously and that these women themselves finance their education, it is not small. One year of study is about nine, ten thousand kuna. I therefore believe that the proposer must provide significantly greater resources in this budget, just as I hold that with education and education, the proposer, or the competent ministry, was late, because it should have been kept in mind to propose the Reception Act which we saw was by emergency procedure, so that the study of the recipient, here in Rijeka, is whether last year or this one, I am not sure, but the study of the primacy and higher education for the recipient should have started far away, far earlier in order to get the conditions first to educate these thousands of 760 recipients who are now working on the burden of the state budget, and not from their pocket, and when the conditions are acquired and when Croatia enters the European Union to have their own staff, when having a degree of education and assistants, receive the first-rates, but also the recipients as well as the recipients that the European Union knows them. With such a bill and the speed of entry into the European Union that we all want, but which current government predicts that it will happen in two years, we will leave the recipients on vervain without having the proper education required under this law, and here I mean the first-rate and the primacy and, of course, will open up the possibility, and even if this law is adopted in the way that the Proposer proposes, then the possibility will be opened, but also the direct need to employ in health care institutions the recipients who, of course, have conditions under this law, and the conditions under this law will not have the recipients that they are now carrying out, or in two years they will have a job in Croatian health, but will have the recipients of course that have an organised system of education, a system of education in the European Union. Therefore, I hope, first of all, that this law will still go into second reading, that here will be the comments from the debate and that we will at least allow health care professionals who are now doing this job in Croatian healthcare institutions, free education, free education and in time organize a system of education. We still don't have high-school reception schools, so in due course over a few years, if we adopt this law we still won't be able to say that we have a Croatian EU recipient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16869	Thank you. We have a correction. Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16870	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct the incorrect, I am almost certain that Mr. Šišljagić's incorrect quote is that the recipient will remain in the wind and that we should have started to educate the primal cord long ago. Don't worry, don't worry about it, don't worry about it, don't worry about it, don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16871	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16872	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I will withdraw this violation of the Rules of Procedure if I can get a net spread of what has been corrected incorrectly here. The breach of the Rules of Procedure has not been corrected at all by an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16873	Is what was corrected, and what was injured, in the Houseship Act, it was... expectations. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16874	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, secretary. Before I go to the hearing about the midwife, I will say that last week the Health Committee had an extremely high-quality debate in which they were actually sitting, and I would say competent professionals from all parties, and that all that I've heard today from my colleague Borzan, Mr. Šišljagić, and on Friday we heard that we were very well, so since we now have an even stronger team, there are external members, very good and good debates. We did not ignore, as Professor Hebrang said in the opening statement today, any segment of thinking about the situation in which we met with the proposal of this law, and in the end we concluded that it would all be fine and that it was very good and significant to support this law. So, so much now just intro, and I'm going to go, try to stick to the sole subject, exclusively the legislative proposal from the scheme, because all this around here and we've discussed it on our Health Committee, and we unanimously supported that proposal. So, as Mr Šišljagic said in the Republic of Croatia, according to the Croatian Chamber of Medical Sisters' Professional Class, a thousand 760 recipients were registered. Until the current laws of 2003, 2005, 2006 they regulate the work of recipients as part of the primary health care team. It is done by a professional group in a health care system that so far, as Dr. Šišljagic said, is not properly regulated. As we know, the World Health Organization, which proclaims the goal, health for all, respects the importance of primacy as a profession that must be used by every woman who needs it. This, of course, requires the necessity to pass laws that will regulate the content and manner of the recipient's action, which contributes to domestic legislation in line with the acquis of the European Union. Therefore, the activity of the recipient includes the promotion of health, prevention of disease, detection of maternal and child pathological conditions, the provision of medical assistance and the provision of first aid at all levels in the absence of a doctor. And we've discussed it a lot. The standard of their training for the recipient shall include a minimum of three years of theoretical and practical education or, in particular, training for the 18-month recipient, which is not the subject of equal training of nurses for general health care. As regards the conditions for the performance of the primal activity, which has been mentioned many times today, means the recipient of an assistant who has acquired the basic training for the recipient of the assistant can only exercise primal care under the supervision of the recipient with a license for independent work and specialist in gynaecology and obstration. The Head of the Primal Care Team is the recipient who completed the relevant pre-graduate and graduate university study which was entered in the recipient register at the Croatian Chamber of Primals and who was granted the approval for independent work. As regards the knowledge and skills that the recipient must possess, in accordance with the law directive, it is pointed out that there is appropriate knowledge under the number of one sciences on which the work of the recipient is based, in particular obstetrics and gynecology. Under two, an appropriate knowledge of the ethics of profession and professional legislation. Under three, a thorough knowledge of the biological functions of anatomy, physiology, obstetrics and neonatology, and also of the relationship between the state of health and the physical, social environment of man, his behaviour. Under four appropriate clinical experience in authorised institutions under the supervision of gynecology and obstetrics. Suitably, five, understanding and training of healthcare professionals and experience in working with such staff. The legislative proposal also contains provisions on the implementation of private practice which we have heard from the recipient, meaning private practice could only be carried out by the recipient with completed primaryity study who has the approval for independent work issued by the Croatian Chamber of Primaries. Finally, this legislative proposal regulates that the traineeship and the professional examination as well as the conditions for the exercise of the activity of the recipient do not apply to the citizens of the European Union. The Croatian Democratic Union will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16875	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Miranda Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16876	Dear Mr. Vice President, this law would be easy to discuss if we knew what our health reform is and whether health reform exists or not. As we know, there is no reform and when it will be, we do not know. And therefore this law and discussion on this law is very difficult, because there is no projection of what this law will do in the field of health care and what its effects will be on the very level of health care. What is quite certain is the law will reduce the level of health care because pregnant women, as you know in Croatia, are taking care of pregnant women by their gynecologists. I am not saying that fellow recipients, more midwives, will be less valuable than fellow gynecologists, but since no transitional system has been established, that it is not established how this law will be implemented in practice, we are likely to get into a situation that is changing this law very quickly, or that we are withdrawing certain articles of this law as this Government has done with previous laws. Let's remember the Trade Act. When we talk about negotiations, then negotiations need to protect something that is the flow of Croatian health care, if we have protected our products, so we have protected cheese and cream, it would be good for the government to succeed and the negotiating team to protect Croatian health from reducing the level of health care that this law nevertheless takes place in spite of all the intensities of the secretary of state and all the discussions that HDZ's majority are trying to give us today, that this step forward is in line with Europe, it is a step back in line with Europe. In Croatia, the primates are part of the team and are directly under the authority of fellow gynecologists, we have 1800. What can happen to us, after four years, this law, as we see in the article, is the final article, which states that Article 37 of the Law enters into force on the 8th day of its publication, can happen to us that when a three-year study is completed which started in Rijeka and we get the primacy of the prime minister, that at that moment they have every right to be team leaders and to be persons who will lead the pregnancy. There are no transitional provisions and we do not say that there is no plan of what we will do with these 1800 recipients working in current maternity care, or health care, which means that it will look like the situation that after three years of completion of the study, who do not have a day of clinical practice, will be superior to colleagues who work 10, 15 and 20 years in the profession and who do not only deserve the name of first-rate recipients, but clearly that some of them deserve the name dipl. midwife. The legislator should have provided for a plan to do what with these recipients, a plan to enable those who wish to continue their education, to train them to get enough points, to ensure that their education is consistent with the education of recipients in the European Union. Let's just say... This is the way it is for the European Union if our pregnant woman now goes to Germany to get pregnant, will be examined by the recipient, followed by a birth certificate and delivered by a recipient. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in Croatia it is not so, and you can't suddenly turn things over overnight and say it was like this now, now it's another way, especially since we don't even have time for it. It was necessary, I expected the secretary of state to tell us how and how he thought to solve this problem and ensure a peaceful and easy transition from one system to another if we really want to. It's still a step back. Not to mention that when recipients become self-sufficient one day, they also succumb to all possible difficulties that we are aware that fellow gynecologists have in their work, so most people rarely decide on gynecology when they finish medicine, because it's a stressful job and... A lot, a lot of lawsuits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's say in one hospital of 20 lawsuits that are in court, 15 is due to a problem in the gynecological profession. What will happen to midwives' nurses, it remains an open question, the legislator predicted that when she completed her education alone, she got a license from the chamber, she had an independent and she had a decision. The second question is a chamber that's being established, with which frame we're going to form a chamber. We will have a chamber of non-premiums, but a recipient of assistants, because none of the recipients will have formal education to meet European criteria. It is the same story with the nurses that my colleague Šišljagić mentioned well, we have 25 thousand in Croatia, and by joining the European Union we will have 25 thousand nurses. It is not fair to these people, according to those people who have spent their entire lives in the health system and yet it is not expected that about their salary which is somewhere between 4 and 5 thousand kunas with duty pay more tuition to get those 300... points in which you could become a nurse first grade. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this case and in the case of nurses, the legislator should have made a programme to enable these sisters to be part of Europe by entering the European Union, not to remain out of Europe, although we will be formally in all of this. So this law might be easier to interpret if there were to be a projection of what would happen in the health system, if there were reforms, and if we knew how much we needed first grade recipients, how much we needed graduate recipients, how much we needed senior nurses of the primal and gynological obstetric direction. There's definitely no projections. Therefore, this law is likely to experience its changes very quickly because it will be impregnable in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16877	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16878	Mr Vice-President, I would like to correct the incorrect quote of a colleague who said that we have protected cheese and cream in Croatia, so I should therefore protect some things in health and then during negotiations with the European Union. Just for your information, so the protection of cheese and cream was one failed attempt by a gentleman who tried to do so in collaboration with Zagreb Holding but failed? As for protection, we in Croatia have 9 protected products but only by our legislation. So we have just passed the laws that we have implemented European Union legislation and we are only now coming into phase to protect these products under European Union regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16879	Ms. Representative Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs before us is the proposal for a law on primacy. So it's a whole new professional law. This fact, as well as the fact that the activity of the recipient is related to pregnant women, births, newborns as extremely sensitive and important groups in the overall population, was necessary to conduct a comprehensive expert debate on the area covered by the law. As this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation which provides for recipients as an independent profession and that so far the work of recipients has not been properly regulated by the adoption of this law is necessary. However, probably because of the speed of writing, lack of width and professional debate, it is abundant in clarity and indeterminates that could be done and repaired. Here's a few examples. The first thing that puzzled me by reading this bill is the terms of the distribution of recipients. It mentions the primacy of assistants, primal first graders, I suppose as new future interests, but nowhere in the bill has a precise definition of each of the types of midwives. The term graduated recipient is not used at all, although it is in line with the current system of education of recipients according to the Bologna process. The law mentions a high level of primal education. The part governing the activity of the recipient shall be the part. I will quote the part: "The share of the recipient includes all the processes, knowledge and skills of the primal care." That is an insufficient definition, vague, general. One professional law such as this must contain the exact and precise content of the activity. By reading this law to the end, what exactly does the recipient of an assistant do to you, which is a high-level primary without mentioning the recipient with a high level of education? Furthermore, this law regulates the infringement of labour duties which is not necessary because labour relations are in the jurisdiction of the employer and are therefore regulated by the Labour Act and other regulations in this area. The professional chamber shall have the power to carry out a disciplinary procedure for breach of the rules of profession and ethics, and not for work. In the case of a description of operations carried out by the Croatian Chamber of Recipients, it shall be indicated that it shall, inter alia, adopt the content of the Protocol on the Plan and the implementation of the activity of the primacy. I think it is simply impossible to implement this without cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Medical Chamber. In the light of all these pointed comments, it is extremely important to regulate the provisions for a transitional period which has not been regulated by this law. The provisions of the bill are based on the current non-existent types of recipients. Within a year in Rijeka, the first generation of first-graders will graduate at the High School of Primary. One key issue remains unclear, and this is the issue of the work of the current nurses who are employed in the activities of nurses in primary health care and the question of the sustainability of their jobs. Another important issue is the issue of the regulation of status and registration in the register and the granting of authorisations for the independent work of nurses now performing the work of recipients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16881	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm actually going to use the bill of this law that's before us of the primacy bill to warn me about some of the things we've already discussed in this House. Last year, on Mother's day and International Family Day, the Committee on Gender Equality organised a thematic session of the Committee called "The Rights of Birth and the Position of Primaries". I have to say, you have this report from that board today on Parliament's website, and I also have to say that, that the echoes were actually quite strong in public. In fact, there was a lot of dust because we talked about the position of birth and the role of the recipient and based on the results of a survey conducted by the Roda Association on its website and when, somewhere within 10 days, about 600 women who had passed the pregnancy were born and staying at our birthplaces and of course had the opportunity to meet and taste what it means to be born and what it means to be born in Croatian hospitals and the way they are treated in our birthplaces. I have no reason to believe that today is much different since that session has been about a year and a half, and I will now take advantage of the opportunity here and say once again that I am actually sorry that no one from the Ministry of Health, any of the Medical Chamber, has ever been able to attend that session. It was then pointed out at a committee meeting that there are institutional mechanisms in the Republic of Croatia for promoting and protecting women's reproductive health and humanisation, starting with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, from national policies to promote gender equality, the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, the results of the research carried out by the Roda Association on their own, among women on their experience during their last birth, indicated that there are serious deficiencies in our healthcare system and in relation to health care professionals towards pregnant women, or women during birth, who are treated in a good part of a woman as an ordinary object that does not have the right to ask about medical interventions taken on the mother or child body during childbirth, have passed on shocking testimony about inhumane and rude behaviour, i.e. actions that violate fundamental human rights in maternity care. I'm saying this not to say that they're all like that but to warn one segment, or to warn through this law on one segment that we're essentially very rarely talking about. I would also like to remind myself that in national policy to promote gender equality under the chapter – women's health among other things is said to be also a deadline for 2007 to develop a comprehensive programme of humanisation of births that will include the development and adoption of guidelines for natural childbirth, the promotion of physiological birth, and the education of women and health care professionals on patient rights in order to increase women's participation in the decision to give birth. I remind you that the holder of this assignment is the Ministry of Health and Social Care. I'm sure these guidelines haven't been made. In fact, this year when we asked the Ministry of Health for a report on what measures are in this national policy concerning the health issues of women made this task has been completely skipped. So neither can I conclude, so there's nothing to do with this kind of guidance. And I'm saying this because, in fact, it's in line with this law, in fact, it's one of the questions that is absolutely imposed. One of the conclusions of the committee that was forwarded to the Ministry of Health at that time was the adoption of a scientifically sound guidance on the care of physiological birth. And then one of the conclusions was, because at the time we discussed it, it wasn't a primal study, so it opened up a primal study that we heard was set up this year. And one of the conclusions that matters to us is that no one seems to want to talk too much about, which is that. Namely, I don't know how much you know, if I'm wrong, but let the secretary of state do it, and let him correct me. In Croatia we have a problem not recognising the legal personality of a healthy newborn from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Namely, a child born is called a single-fertile, or multi-fertile, spontaneous birth. It is called the Croatian Health Insurance Office. So the newborn is not recognized at all as a person, as a patient. Well, perhaps Mr. Secretary of State will say something about it in his final address. Among other things, the conclusion was investment in maternity care and setting up outside hospital birth centres for low-risk births. I believe you all know that you've had the opportunity to see what the condition of our birthplace is, in fact, the least invested. One example is we had this year the last thing that was this Sibenik birthplace and then, of course, the emergency minister's intervention quickly find the money, patch up the existing holes, up to some next occasion. Also when we talk about the problem of maternity care, it should be recalled that during the 1990s UNICEF in Croatia implemented the program “The Hospital of Friends of Children”. As part of this project, 15 maternity homes were named “The Hospital of Friends of Children. ” However, as that famous package of happy babies was shown in the meantime, then, in some ways, most of the maternity homes lost that status, and we today have only 9 out of 36 of us today if I don’t cheat at birth homes that have the term “Friends Hospital”. And it's not just, it's not hospitals, birthplaces where breastfeeding is promoted as the healthiest way to feed a newborn. These are also hospitals where births and newborns are then assessed and the possibility of mothers and children being together, etc. etc. I would also like to support in this debate all those who advocate to be cleared from the text in terms of title. In fact, talking about patients or patients through this text is considered inappropriate because it is usually the most common case of patients who are healthy. So it's a physiological birth which is, let me put it this way, a normal state and a normal and desirable state. So it can't be treated with births, so it can't treat pregnant women as patients. So I suggest that if the client's name can't be introduced, then I guess not, then let's at least stand a patient. Because it seems to me to me that when you come into some office somewhere as a patient, whether you're healthy or sick or otherwise equal to the names of this person, because at one point we're talking about the midwives of assistants, or assistants, assistants, high school girls, first graders, and then we're just talking about team members, etc. etc. So, in that sense, I think this law should simply be brought in kind of order. And what seems to me to be absolutely understated, which is the role of the recipient in caring for women's reproductive health and newborn health. I think that in that part should finally and in Croatia make it clear through the laws, so in fact, in this part where it speaks of the Croatian Chamber of Primaries, which are all public powers, i.e. what the chamber includes among other things should stand, at least in this part where it says it represents the interests of the recipient, but that it speaks of representing, i.e. taking care of the reproductive health of women, and the health of newborns. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16883	Thank you. Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16884	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Personally, I think it's a good thing that this law came before the MPs, because by passing this law, I believe that the primal profession will be strengthened. However, remarks like the predecessor of colleagues are not good to rush, because haste does not have to and usually does not reflect the quality of the content that we bring here. It is good to adapt to the legal provisions in force in the European Union countries to allow free flow of goods and services and people on that market. Last Friday, when we discussed 6 health laws in a united debate and when the debate was held, the action was given to the state of health and the issue of reform, which is quite understandable because the question of what kind of health care system we want to join the European Union. And then I said, let me repeat, in order to set health policy priorities, and even in this context, we need to clearly define what we want to change and how we want to do it. If it does not exist, then it is not about reforms, but about harmonising our needs and habits, and that is why health is actually happening to us because it does not manage quality. And in the segment of today's debate, there are elements of the above-mentioned knowledge. The Reception Act is necessary, but like any law passed here in the Assembly should be with its contents, have clear goals of its reach, which will allow it to be usable and for a longer period of time, which is often not here. My fellow predecessors said something about the importance of primacy, about the history of this primacy, so I won't look back on it, but how much does receiving through the history of private care mattered only one thing. In 1877 a primary school was established at the Sister of Mercy Hospital in Zagreb. The school's progress was provided by young surgeon Franjo Durst, who, along with university director Antun Lobmeyer, published the book "Primary-Learning Book for Primaries". The primate was independent in Croatia, received a degree, took an oath before the judge and conducted a statement about births. Once upon a time, it looks like it was just mentioned today. What is the importance of this law? A few personal observations. During pregnancy, the body of a pregnant woman passes through the entire range of changes and carries with it a large number of new experiences that she did not expect. Personally, from my days as a young doctor in the infirmary, I know there isn't, and I'm putting this under the supposed signs of a "silent question" when it comes to pregnancy. Therefore, primacy activity is an important segment of health care. Therefore, this law should strengthen the role of recipients, especially in the context of public health, the promotion of women and family health and the reduction of maternal and child mortality. The transitional period should be designed in such a way that there are no new schooled recipients for one year, and it is also necessary to adopt a programme of education and recognition of the competences of recipients who have a high school education with experience and who are now giving birth to women. It is also necessary to define what will happen to non-school recipients. According to the Bologna Declaration for the School of Primaries, they can take on normal births and patronage so that in Croatia the recipient can carry out almost 2/3 births, which would cost the health system. The entire philosophy of primacy rests on the understanding that birth is a normal body function of a woman who requires the stimulating environment of an experienced companion who will detect any problems. The natural birth that we touched here today is known and as a nonmedical birth is exactly what the name itself says. The birth of a child without the use of medications and prosthetic interventions during childbirth. No need to be fooled, we cannot have a natural birth in today's society in Croatia unless we ourselves take steps to do so. On 8 July 2008, the European Commission for Reception met with representatives of the Croatian Association of Primaries. It was then warned that from the point of view of the EU standards and directives in Croatia, primacy does not actually exist, but there are certainly options and ways to bring certain issues into line. And now, just my few more observations about the law itself. Some of my colleagues and colleagues gave it away, I don't want to repeat myself, but let me put it this way. The general provisions of Article 1 are set out here in the general provisions. Definitions, as we can see, are not specified, and I will personally give a proposal to the concept of a graduate recipient because that title would be in line with the current system of the Bologna process. As my colleague, my predecessor, also said, the activity of the recipient as mentioned here covers all procedures, knowledge and skills of the primal care. This has indeed been observed, especially if we refer to another professional law, the Law of Medicine, where also in this law in Article 3 of the taxation of a physician. I will not repeat myself again on Article 13(1) is inconsistencies with Article 15(2) in my opinion because it is about the notion of self-work because then it should really define who has the right to work independently and what it is, in fact, the concept of independent work. I'm going to go back to what I've done before, the only way to do this is, and if we cut back, we could introduce a term for a graduate midwife. After all, if we do so, and especially because of the inconsistencies that exist here in these statements, I don't know, I don't think this law is fully in line with Article 141. The Health Protection Act, which states in paragraph 1. healthcare professionals may carry out private practice from their professional training and that of nurses, senior dentists and dental technicians and physiotherapists. There are other remarks, colleagues and colleagues were talking about some of them. I mean, it's like I'm not repeating myself, and I am, this law is necessary. Perhaps it would have been better if we had discussed and discussed this bill as a first reading. I personally hope you will consider this observation. I'm going to pass the law myself because I think it's a step in the legal regulation of this issue, but it's too fast, it's too fast, it's been passed in my court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16885	Thank you. At 10.46, it was time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16886	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Reception Act is in its essential, basic idea of regulating one specific and I would say an extremely important activity in the health care system is actually good. It should be acknowledged that recipients have in some way lost their status, should recognise that in their work they meet different standards and lack of value for their quality and efficiency, as well as personal responsibilities for all implemented or not implemented. Although this law for the sake of the profession could and should have been passed much earlier, it is not regrettable that we bring it under pressure and on the European Union's incentive, but I am sorry that it is becoming a practice for us to pass laws at speed without sufficient professional debate that it will necessarily have a subsequent amendment to the law for the consequence, and I think that this law is a typical example of what I am saying, because the proposal for the Law on Reception is unsettled with countless gaps, with countless dilemmas and inconceivables as my predecessors have already stated. I don't think it's enough debate of 10 minutes to count everything that is not clearly defined in this law, and the law has to be clear and must be unequivocally defined both rights and obligations. One of the fundamental things this law should have defined, and it failed to do so is the duty of the recipient, a clear unequivocal duty of the recipient. Because a clear definition of duty means a clear definition of responsibility, I guess that's clear to us. In this law neither is a clear duty nor a clear responsibility, and as far as pregnant women are concerned by birth, newborns as extremely sensitive and extremely important groups in the overall population. If you don’t understand what I’m talking about, see article 16 of the proposal, it lists: applying available knowledge, so listen to the second indent. The application of the method of solving the problem in the implementation of the primacy that requires the skills of analytical critical approach. Well, I have to admit that my study of medicine and two PhDs of science didn't help me understand what this meant specifically and clearly. So there is further listing, handling, keeping a professional secret, respecting the right of patients, respecting the ethical code, respecting religious principles, etc. etc. and so much closer. I have to admit that this is all but a clear list of duties to me, because what I think is very important is what it is, what it does, what causes perinatal mortality that when we're discussing this, we shouldn't forget, so infant mortality in one country, believe me, has nothing to do with keeping the institution's reputation, or keeping a professional secret that you don't get me wrong. Keeping the reputation of an institution or keeping a professional secret is extremely important, but it has nothing to do with perinatal mortality. But something else has to do with it, it has a diagnostic and therapeutic procedure that the recipient is obliged to do in the follow-up of a pregnant woman, and it certainly has to do with it. Moreover, the preamble to the law even states that the activity of the recipient involves a number of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. Watch your numbers, and I'll ask you which ones. What are the diagnostics and treatment procedures of the recipient to do and for which it is appropriate? I believe that every conscious and responsible recipient wants to know in this law what its obligations are and what its rights are. Short and clear, unequivocal, as one law must be, if good. And is this law good? I don't. Why? Because it places dilemmas on one of the most important things that this law must regulate, leaves dilemmas for the recipient, not only for them, it leaves dilemmas for both doctors and the system and for a pregnant woman with possible fatal consequences. That's not good, and I think that's a very big lack of this law. The whole law he read asked me to ask myself, when we adopt this law, or when this law comes into force? Emergency procedure. For what? What if we adopt it now, most of you have so it shouldn't be a problem in principle, so if the adoption of the law and it won't be a problem, how we're going to carry it out later, how we're going to implement it into life. Will we again, in this case, have a well-known problem in implementing the provisions of the law? If we're going to lead the current situation to chaos, I'd be wondering. I must admit, Mr. Secretary of State, I'm concerned that you are aware that at this point, we do not have a single recipient with completed senior or high-level expertise. You are also aware of the fact that today in Croatia we have a mid-school reception only and that those as such would not be able to behave in the competencies of the last 10, the last 20 years, but at the same time you do not seem to be particularly concerned. You seem satisfied with the existing state and seem, no, it doesn't seem, but you have no other alternative and no solution. We mentioned an expert study in the river. Yeah, it's true. It is our only professional study of primacy today in the country, a study which has a registration quota of 30 students or students, and which will not be enrolled until the 12th month of this year. So we have a generation that ends in the first year, which will only be enrolled in the second year of study at the 12th month. So we still don't have, as previous colleagues have said, the first generation of highly educated recipients this law speaks of. What I'm saying is that we must avoid chaos, not create it ourselves. And that is by predicting the time of transitional provisions, or the time needed to prepare ourselves for the implementation of the proposed law. Another brief review of the chamber's competences. I think that, of course, the competences of the Chamber of Receivers, I think that they are unusually large, and besides issuing licences, they also enter into the organization of certain health institutions, which is not currently the case with the ingenuity of the Medical Chamber or the powers of the Chamber of Nurses. The inconsistencies of the law were spoken of, I will not repeat it. Finally, given that this law is very likely, regardless of our constructive criticisms and proposals, in this form it will still be adopted, not the rest of me, but that I, like my colleague Borzan, will be comforted that there will be more time and time before we enter the European Union, and that we will finally get together and function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16887	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16888	Thank you very much. Well, a colleague obviously misstates many of his remarks because apparently the law did not understand. He says that every midwife would like to see in this law what her obligations and rights are. My fellow Members, this law does not determine the rights and obligations of the recipient, this determines the Health Protection Act, and the obligations will determine the acts of the chamber established here. So you have to distinguish the law from the law. He says he doesn't need an emergency procedure. It should, because the alignment with the European Union and we have promised negotiations, we have committed to an emergency procedure, and this government is carrying out its promises. The third incorrect, he says, doesn't say when it's gonna start. Then when the first recipient, whose education is under way, is finished. They'll automatically have a framework for their business. If we hadn't brought that, they'd have come to an illegal area. And lastly, the law will introduce chaos. No, it will solve chaos and it is incorrect that time, time, and time will pass to Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16889	Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16890	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Let us, on behalf of the promoter, explain certain ambiguities that arise during the debate. It is clear exactly why we felt that such a law should be passed and this law is not an island in the sea, this law is part of the work that this government has been doing for three years, i.e. the Ministry of Health with regard to primates. So, ever since it started working on the primal and determining what will happen in the primal system first, then it got involved and the debate is being held all the time in collaboration with one of the largest recipient associations, it is the Croatian Primal Association. But it should also be said with professional societies means the Croatian Medical Assembly and with the Croatian Medical Chamber because the problem has been intruding into an area that has been in one part of the area that has been covered exclusively by specialists or gynecologist prosthetist and one part that has so far been at the level of primacy in the Republic of Croatia. This law cites the definition of the recipient assistant, but you must know it is already in force in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Agency for Professional Education and the Health Sector of the Agency has already adopted a provision six months ago to end the professional school of the Primalia in the Republic of Croatia and obtain the title of recipient assistants, not recipients. So this law doesn't define it, but it puts it in a situation that's in the system. The other thing to say is also, that it should finally be clearly distinguished, the midwives are not midwives. The primates are not doctors of the recipient, the recipient is the recipient. That means they have their kind of schooling, their competences and their responsibilities. The legal proposal that lies before you is the proposal in which all health professions that have been regulated so far have been regulated. Thus, even some provisions and some articles, the one who has looked a little bit better, and who may now seem unclear are in the same way, perhaps even from word to word, as it is in the Law on Nurses. And there are also several levels. So there's a nurse first grade, there's a basic nurse that we've called a middle nurse so far. Generally speaking, I consider it to be a misunderstanding, and perhaps I misrepresented myself. The European recipient is what the level of the primary grade is, there are few levels. So, in Croatia we spoke medium professional preparation, higher professional preparation, high professional preparation. There's no such thing as a new curricula. So, what does the new curricula have, it has a basic so what's basic? That's what we have here, we say midwife assistants and that's where we appreciate the tradition because it's not in Europe. Not in most states, no. They simply recognise only one level of primacy and that is the level of primacy at the level of the primacy of the first grade. However, we want to keep such a thing because there is a tradition and then the second part comes, and that is the primary step, meaning the level of the recipient that Europe recognises as such. The title cannot be changed because the graduate recipient has long been defined by the Law on Academic Termination and Professional Education, which was adopted by this Croatian Assembly, where a graduate nurse is said to be, the graduate is the rank of a graduate graduate graduate professional study. A little bit to remind you, this means after the first grade, professional championship can be organized in different professions specialist graduate professional studies and then the title is obtained from a professional study. Therefore, throughout this process, it is a process that lasts over two years. This is a moment not only of compliance with European Union directives but of a real timing that has been agreed because at this point level and in the organisation of teaching is a process, nobody thought of it yesterday and organised some kind of schooling, but it is a long-term process of creating curricula, acquiring accreditation. And I say it out loud and clear here, and that program is not finished either, he's working within the university and he's being concise and finished. But what should be said also so that now is the moment when the chamber should be established, when the chamber should be given powers that have all the chambers and do not answer the truth that these are different powers from the chamber medically old, because the provisions are practically exactly the same as in the Law in chambers, and the chambers are therefore institutions of public activity. In such a way this is the moment where it is now necessary to set up for the long-distance development of the entire system within the entire strategy that is now being implemented in the Republic of Croatia in the area of the recipient for over three years and which I must say is welcomed by those you are calling on today, which is the Croatian Primal Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16891	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16892	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you were just talking about something I wanted to comment on. In fact, you said the intensity to discuss this immediately, although I didn't think right away, that the intensity in the European Union is what my colleague Šišljagic, the EU recipient, said, so these are the ones who completed the undergraduate study of 6 semesters. However, in Article 7(1), we continue to hold back and say so. The primary education of assistant recipients is achieved by the successful completion of the secondary education programme. So, the European Union's intensity to be first-graders, so what we would say is higher education prepares, and in our article of the law, for example, because of tradition, we retain the secondary education of recipients. So there's one contradiction. I think this law is very important, which is why I answered the word, because we know well that from the work of the midwife, whether the assistant, there was a first degree how to say it here, in many ways depends on the quality and pregnancy, and the birth, and to say the first days of the newborn's life. We are also aware that Croatia has fewer and fewer births every year, and that is why every pregnant woman, every newborn, and every newborn, are very important and in terms of improving to say demographic images, but clearly that we also reduce that perinatal mortality that is still somewhere in Croatia at the level of medium-developed European countries, rather than at the level of some European Union countries. So this mortality is slightly higher than it is in some EU countries. A thousand 760 recipients of the Republic of Croatia who completed secondary education and one single study just this first degree or undergraduate study in Rijeka which opened in 2007 when 28 students were enrolled, let me put it this way or the students. This year, 19 students were enrolled in the same study, so in the 2008 school year. I think it's like you said with the Ministry of Education, etc. We should have thought about it, and we have been in negotiations with the European Union for a long time, and even in this segment, so in this field of health that we are considering today, some things could and should have been foreseen before. And I think that the only study there is, which is this one in Rijeka, so they say it opens up soon, I don't know exactly in Zagreb, I think it could have spread to and on the condition that in some other cities in the Republic of Croatia or some other regions, such as Slavonia and Baranja opening up either at the university, the university, it doesn't matter, this kind of study. To just reach standards, therefore, by completing the undergraduate study and by obtaining the title of the first degree, in order to reach the European Union's standards as soon as possible. So I'm wondering about this study in Rijeka and some future undergraduate studies, what theirs really is, I'm not going to tell the future. This is how here in the law in the article of the law, just a second, in Article 14 of this Law, it is said that these same graduates must be required to attend a traineeship and to pass a professional exam. And is this school in Rijeka now a unique school in Rijeka, founded, is there a program such as schools in the countries of the European Union? At the same time, the European Union's first-rate students who would be employed in the Republic of Croatia will not have to have a traineeship, or passed a professional exam. Why is it that our high school in Rijeka doesn't have the same program to be recognised without traineeship and passing a professional exam, the right to work as a recipient. Furthermore, I delivered this bill yesterday and the day before yesterday, to tell the base, the midwives at the Ship's Hospital, the Slavon-ship hospital. I asked them to read it, study it, and deliver some of their opinions and thoughts to me. One of the questions is how the ministry is thinking about resolving the status of a recipient who has completed a high school course, so on a general course. That's what it was called then, isn't it? So she's a nurse, a senior nurse in general, but she works as a midwife. Is she going to be recognised as this first-suspecting qualification or does she have to go to school? He has 10 years of primal training, and a total of 20 years of training as a senior nurse. What do you do with her? There are more of them. They even asked the question in terms of the weight of the recipient's work and the work of 7 night shifts, what is their status in terms of labour rights, benefits, etc. In view of the adrenaline they are surely experiencing in their work, i.e. the adrenaline, what is their status. They talked about how EU recipients, according to my colleague Šišljagic, have 3 thousand euros in the EU. We want to equalise ourselves, if we want to join the EU, whether we will equalise the salaries of EU recipients, or those who will end up in Rijeka, the future in Zagreb somewhere in Slavonski Brod at the university I don't know where either. There's a chance to open up another undergraduate study of midwives. How many high schools do we have that are referred to in Article 7(1)? How many primary secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia? Where are those schools? In 1975, a generation of midwives were enrolled at the Medical School in Slavonski Brod. In 1979, that generation ended. Since '79. There is no qualified midwife who finished school in Slavonski Brod. Now those who are employed in a hospital full-time 30 years of work, and those who come to work in that same hospital must come from other backgrounds if they have a qualification of medium professional primal training. High school, as far as I know, exists in Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek, Split and Varazdin, it is five primary schools. And I'm saying, there's a contradiction here that you're telling us that we want to get closer to EU standards, that the recipient is a first-rate, most of the recipients, and that, slowly, to change that in structure, therefore, education in this primal business itself, and in Article 7 I say again, there is a repeat that basic education is a medium professional cook. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 13 states that the right, i.e. when it comes to the right to self-employed work, it is then said that the recipient has the right to work independently, and the recipient of an assistant also has the right to work independently with the supervision of an assistant, either a doctor or a midwife. Does this mean that if there is a request and a license for the grant of the independent work of the recipient that independent work can be opened and the recipient of the assistant report to say and what she will hire a doctor for supervision in her own office? This midwife doesn't have to do it, she can work on her own. And there's a series of problems that arise from this little bit, I say the unarranged law, in any case I think the intention is good and that EU accession and adoption but just on the contrary application or better, there's no need to think that they can be fixed and add this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16893	Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, listen, in the Croatian Health Administration nothing new, fortunately a lot of good things in Croatian medicine, one of them is great, the two who made my colleagues on Rebr, the artificial heart and Croatian medicine thanks to the enthusiasm of our nurses, our doctors doing a great job. And the Croatian Health Administration continues what it has been doing for the past five years waiting and waiting, delaying and delaying and then as counterpart Jerkovic and colleague... When we come to a dead end, we quickly and hastily give laws, we make quick and quick decisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we're on a dead end, we know that an autonomous wire system is working and he's reluctant, he's reluctant, he's primordial, he's fine while we're working on a willing wire system. Eight laws, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues of the 6 laws of five years ago, they passed the procedure, first and second reading, democratic procedure, finishing, working, etc. Five years of unhappiness, waiting, delaying, and then two fast laws, the Law on Primacy, the Law on Physical Activity, which has been unarranged and will be absolutely difficult to implement. You know what a paradox is? The paradox is that these laws were already ready in 2004 to be implemented through procedure, to go through first and second reading, so that both our recipients and physiotherapists finally found their place under the sun, to find their place in the Croatian health system, but none of it, waited, delayed, we came to a dead end. I have to be honest that I don't get it. Why wait? Was it not wanted or not known? Personally, I don't know what's worse, tragically on me. Either it wasn't, or it wasn't known, but the situation is very, very unsympathic and as counterpart Bruno Kurelić said and appealed very gladly to go to first and second reading. However, we have come, the European Union is here, she says gentlemen wait, we will help you. I'd look into the primacy law in a broader context. We talked a lot about Andrija Stampar in public health but we can be proud of our gynecology, we can be proud of our progeny, we can tolerate our primacy as well as our colleague Grubisic. In 1983, you have in the paper yesterday, for those who don't know, who don't follow medicine, Professor Simunić and his team made MPO, a medically assisted fertilisation, then we were the fifth country in the world, the fifth since 192, there were not 192 of them in the meantime, but we were fifth in the world, like Bilić boys, as our football team, today they and we were in '83. Petrova, Zagreb, Croatia, fifth in the world. A few years ago, for example, the first CT machine came in '78, as it spoke first south of Vienna, East Berlin, and five years after '83. Professor Šimunić is doing a great work of the IPO, which unfortunately has shut down, shut down, disappeared, so here we will help you, the SDP representative club has sent the IPO Act, give it a study, try to understand it and try to implement it. The school year of 152 primary school classes began each year with less enrolment. It is registered less because of birth, among other things because the MPO is not applied and our birth rate is dropping. My dear friend Sobol spoke of the Sibenik maternity home, but that's how it is in Petrovo, we did that action a few months ago... The center we help Peter's hospital, our hospitals, our maternity wards work in very bad conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then I read in the paper the other day one official operated great, he saved his life, and I congratulate him, he operated on the lady, he operated on a great operation, really, really, really hard surgery, because it was written in the paper, so I'm going to do it again, the lady at the late age of 78 seemed to me, he operated on a 10kg tumor, which is basically great, I congratulate him, it's great for that woman, that hospital, but let's watch the wider context, why did it develop such a tumor? Because there's no prevention. No education. No Enlightenment. We're not doing our job. The purpose of medicine is to detect a one-millimeter tumor, one-centimeter tumor. What I did today. Five millimeters. That's the point of medicine. The purpose of medicine is to enlighten, educate, do public health actions, do preventive checks and detect precancerous conditions in time. There's a lot of doctors out there. Not lead to a phase, in a phase that speaks of a poor health system of colleagues and colleagues. It's about a great operation. It's about a bad system. Otherwise, if I were that official, I'd take a clear picture of myself if the patient allowed me to take a picture with her and I've done it before, but I certainly wouldn't have taken a picture with that tumor. Because I think that Croatia's medical chamber will probably react because it seems unusual at least and is not done in regulated countries. So once again, I congratulate you on a great operation, but let's worry about a health care system that needs to work more on health education and medical judgment. Mr. Secretary of State World Health organized a conference six years ago exclusively about primacy. Only about primacy. Six years ago. The law waited, he welcomed a new administration. It did not apply, so Mrs Sobol, as chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, tried to help you in 2007 but also in 2006 on Mother's Day and Family Day. Reappeal, ask, help with arguments: Give application to this Law on Primacy. Do it the way organized states do it, but it didn't go either. But we don't want to talk about the health administration anymore because we all know how it works. Congratulations on Croatian medicine and our Croatian nurses, recipients and doctors. But termologically, this law mentions patients who told Biljana Borso. So clearly you can't talk about patients. It's hard to tell about clients but they're patients because thank God for being pregnant is a physiological condition. So that's what people say second condition, but it's a physiological, normal state in which most of our women work, do believe or not until three days before birth. They go into labor and then they go back to work after a few months. But then normal physiological conditions should be appreciated. That's what law should respect. And based on gender equality, change this terminology, because now it's really unusual. Human resources. Do you know how today, my colleague Grubisic was talking about 1975 and unfortunately some schools for midterms have disappeared, but how are our nurses being educated today? Let's get back to the nurses... And then we can talk about the midwives because they're together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So do you know when they enter hospitals? At 14 years of age, 15th, 16th. You all have kids. Well, they're kids. It's the girls. They're children who, at the age of 15, Mr. Vice President enter the hospital, and at 16, they enter the delivery room. My son's a medical student and he's going, he's going to enter the maternity ward just like I am, at the age of six of medicine at 24. And those girls, we let those guys in when we're 16. We let them go to the maternity wards and expect them to realize that when they're 16 years old. We expect them at the age of 16 to learn that knowledge. We expect them at the age of 16 to apply it. Well, that's an impossible mission. That's why we begged you a few years ago, to appeal: to adapt the Houseships Act. Because like she wrote you a directive. I quote: "The system of vocational education is being entered from the age of 14 and 2 of the medical care captains over the course of 4 years as the school is now being studied is far below the level of obtaining the opportunity to work on its own. Why? Because it is insufficient: a) knowledge b) not enough practice and 3rd not enough skills." So a girl at 16, 17 can't enter a system like that, an operating room. Okay. But what about these midwives that exist now? Well, there aren't any. They'll be erased because there's 1,000 of them, and they're nowhere to be found. Why? Because you didn't listen to us again. Create a override model "bridged model". Make a transition. Everyone in our lives needs a transition from this period or that period. The 1,000 do what counterpart Grubisic was talking about. Here's a full 30 years. They'll disappear with this. God forbid they're wiped out. Where are they going? And you, and me, and so do you now. Then they said to me, "Professor Doctor, where am I? What am I supposed to do? I'm 52 years old. I've been a midwife for 30 years. I'm not here. It will happen to me deleted as in our neighbouring countries?" They will not. He won't. And please, please. A lot of colleagues asked. My colleague Jerkovic asked, "What have you been waiting for, why have you been doing?" So I must be honest that it is very simple. For waiting, for delaying, for not working because inaction is easy. It's hard to make. Inaction is resting, waiting, delaying. And we're here to help something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16895	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16896	Thank you very much. Well, here's the esteemed representative who said a few incorrect things and I'll be in alphabetical order until I'm interrupted by Mr. Vice President. The administration's been waiting five years and nothing's happening. In these five years, a colleague has been brought more changes in the health system than in your mandate, and that is because we have a vision, because we have a reform but the dynamics of health reform must be very careful not to endanger the socially sensitive, not to endanger chronic patients and so on. There's no need to rush reform. The system is not in such a state that we should be in a hurry. Gradually and without any harm. The SDP club sent the Insemination Act. What a law that's a title. This is not the Law on the Treatment of Infertility as you wrote in the proposal because artificial insemination unfortunately does not cure infertility. So what's your title is and the law is, so I hope it ends that way. And in the end he says that, you referred under the heading treatment of infertility. Artificial insemination is not a treatment of infertility. The woman remains infertile or male. But if you don't know that, take the encyclopaedia for children, primary school, it all says. It's incorrect that a 10-pound tumor means poor health care. In the American Journal of Radiology you have, last week they released a tumor of 42 kilos. And they're not sick of health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16897	Replica. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your discussion, you expressed hope or expectation that the Medical Chamber will react to the fact that certain photographs are published in the press. Unfortunately, I wish you were right and that your expectations were realized, but I doubt it because this same medical chamber has never responded to, and when doctors, part of the Doctor's Act on the Protection of Patients' Rights in Cameras and microphones declare all injuries and traumas especially after severe traffic accidents or other accidents, despite the warning and public defender sent to the Medical Chamber and my intervention to the former health minister in Croatia the other day, ten days ago with a great surprise the media realized that the hospital's staff refused to provide information on the health condition of the insatisfactory person as a great miracle. For the first time, therefore, it happened and it was the hospital of Osijek that, referring to the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, they did not want to give information on the health condition of patients for which they should be commended. But at the same time criticise the Medical Chamber, but also those doctors who, even after 3 years of law-making, do not respect the law and public media give reports of the patient's medical condition so far that they also list broken ribs, injuries that all internal organs, trauma and everything else that the patient has experienced. I think the Medical Chamber should intervene in this case that you mentioned, but also this, and this really inadmissible practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16899	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16900	Thank you very much, Mr. Agent Lesar. So you're right, but look. The Croatian medical chamber was founded ten years ago after a long series of years where it did not exist and that is what we need. We need a transition, we need an education, and it's good if out of 16000 doctors in the meantime 13, 14 of them learned not to make statements. We need to learn these two, three thousand more, and I support on one side of your point of view. On the other hand, I do not defend, but I think that the Croatian medical chamber has made a significant shift in the last few years, a significant shift because we are taught the word “patient” at the Medical Faculty and teach us knowledge, skills. They don't teach us communication, unfortunately they don't teach us laws. That's why I'm afraid of ending the internship. Because you need to be taught the law at the internship as a construction engineer should be taught the Law on I don't know how to issue permits and location. That's why I'm afraid of ending an internship, because we have to learn how to apply our skills and learn the legal framework in which we exist, and I'll talk about the internship later. Therefore, I think that the Croatian medical chamber in the last year, a few days, my colleague Minigo has made a very, very good move. But look, it's awkward when a state official does this, you know. So, an ambulance colleague comes to him with a hundred cameras he says something, he has to say and I'd say. With this experience, I wouldn't, but ten years ago he would have. So we have to set an example for our colleagues and what they say to our colleagues is good faith, works not words, when the first time a state official says I can't do that, and I'm not going to take pictures, then it's going to get a message and all the other doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16901	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16902	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on primacy has been shrinking for many years, but here it is after a whole series of years to say in terms of content, i.e. what should necessarily contain this law. He's not mature enough to be born and we here as a conscientious recipient can't let that happen because we need a good, good law. But the government is obviously provoking the birth of this law, and it's certainly because of all those remarks that came here and on behalf of the club and individually by the SDP club, it's certain that we're going to have one indemnity that won't be able to answer for life or work, and we're going to have to change this law. That it is so necessary is seen from not only the assessment of the situation, but above all the evaluations of the means necessary for the implementation of this law. So the government says there will be only 140,000 kunas for the necessary implementation of this law. So please be nice, and this whole adjustment is going to fall on. On the burden of recipients who will have to pay both enrolment and membership fees from these poor 3 and a half thousand kunas, and on the business where we all agree which is so important and too important and none of us came into the world without its assistance. But the glorification of the woman and her roles and certain occupations is proportional to the valorisation of material. And that's a shame. You want to adapt to the burden of these women who will, along the way, be told by this proposal of your law eoipso itself to become the assistance of an assistant in the European Union. With all the necessary knowledge and experience and schools that have now been completed, I guess we are preparing to enter Europe so that our workers become an auxiliary workforce, and even when they are qualified, and even when they are highly qualified. This is something that is inadmissible, but by this we clearly see the mood of the government towards citizens and individual categories of citizens. If you look at certain provisions of this law that have only 30 articles and which make mistakes, inconsistencies, nomotechnical errors that are inadmissible in such a small law, the question is what would the Government have done if it had made a proposal for a law of 370 articles when here on these few, 37 articles so many mistakes. The same term is called three, four words, and completely inadequate. So the woman is a patient, but she's not just a female patient. She's also a sick person. Article 20 says she's a woman and a patient who's going to have a baby. So, by the way, from the hill of the valley, you've proposed a law like this that, in some way, and precisely because of these, is also an injury to the reputation of a representative. What are the powers and duties of the recipient? It's one meta language spoken by this woman colleague Romana Jerkovic. Application of the method of solving the problem of implementation of the primacy. But what does this mean? That means it's being transferred, it's not an accident. This means transferring responsibility to the recipient in the event of a crisis situation or hospital responsibility, or individual participants, or persons who assisted in childbirth. And it's happening today, and with this kind of thing, it's going to be even more common. You also have in your pronunciation, so obviously the government has a problem not yet knowing what, it can speak nicely about suppressing violence and so but it's not yet clear with some concepts, so sexist concepts of occupation, so in this law it's always a doctor, don't give God a doctor. After all, we also have a nurse brother. Why isn't this profession open to men? Therefore, an appropriate expression should be found for such cases. Article 17 states that the contents and forms of the primal list, which, of course, fills the recipient herself will be brought by the minister, and when and within what time? Well, it's not a weird deadline here, because whatever deadline any law has foreseen so far, the minister never respected it. So now we have here indefinitely, act calendar graecas, and the recipient will probably respond because she hasn't written anything, and there's nowhere to write it. All her duties and duties were to be fulfilled during her work assignment. Then you see in article 21 the recipient is not responsible, you might think, for the unimplemented procedure. Which is it, please, can you imagine the procedure, the unimplemented procedure? Well, the word itself speaks for doing things, doing things. So, something that's missing. Well, what a syntagma for an unimplemented procedure. Because it's done in a hurry, something's prescribed, just enough to have something that we can look nice on how we have the Primacy Act. So here's some proposer seriously thinks that this, regardless of what is voted as the final bill, but this or the amendment to act, but in any case, this was just similar to the first reading. This is also a safe time to mention the serious white plague that prevailed in Croatia and this profession where there are not enough children, newborns, those who have yet to be born. And how and why is that? Apparently, the state has made an appointment and the state somehow acts as the best contraception. Young people don't have jobs, they don't have a roof over their heads, and even those who would, the state makes it impossible for them. The fifth country in Europe, the seventh country in the world to have a first child born in a test tube in the 21st century 2008, says that infertility is not a disease. It is a disease defined by the World Health Organization and each such family has the right to treat. But she died. Not only are new innovations missing because of insufficient funds, but there are no more donors. The moment we talked here about women being able to and should donate egg cells. Now there's no more sperm donations. So these are serious problems, and it's very strange, there's no explanation why that law that is here, while Minister Hebrang was in government in 2004, referred him to a legal procedure that's been working for several years, it's a great proposal, it's kind of gone, and what's left of us, rather than a responsible opposition, but it makes up such a proposal for a law on medically assisted insemination that we trust deeply, here's that he'll come across the echo and come across support and those who think it's not a disease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16903	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16904	Thank you very much. I didn't think to answer because there was so much inaccuracy, but when she called me, I'd at least make it right. So, I didn't tell my colleagues, listen to the record, that infertility isn't a disease. Unfortunately, inaccuracy is not the disease you present, but that the law that you have proposed in the title said the law on the treatment of infertility, and artificial insemination does not cure infertility, which is the law on artificial insemination. So you messed up the pots. Infertility is a disease, but your law is the same because it has a wrong title. He also says we have a nurse's brother at the hospital. We don't, but we have what the law says, we have access, we have access, we have an assistant recipient, we have an assistant. So in 2 sexes, it's always said and it's good and good and it's in accordance with the law. And in the end, you say the state is the best birth control. I think it's an insult to the state. Since 2004, the state has led its measures to the fact that the number of live births in Croatia has increased from 40,000 to 41 thousand 446, that the number of live births per 1,000 population has increased from 9.1 to 9.4 so the state is a weak contraception because it is doing everything to be more and more children.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16905	Replica, Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16906	Respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic said the Croatian state is the best contraception. The Croatian state has done nothing in these 5 years to improve the birth rate, regardless of the various strategies that have led to the attempt to increase the birth rate of Croatia, there are still 1.14 children per family, and if it continues to be our destiny, we will be much less than now in 50 years, and as far as the law on medically assisted fertilisation is concerned, in any case we would be happy to see the HDZ proposal. In 2004, you put it in a drawer, we'll be happy if we see it this year, and if it's more advanced than this law that's ahead of you, regardless of the efforts of Agent Hebrang who's trying to do it with one remark or eating a joke change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16907	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16908	In addition to what you said, 11 thousand young people leave Croatia every year. One class goes to almost every school less. Every year, Croatia is devastated for a small town. The question, therefore, is the reason that aside from these methods of incentives that the Government is obviously not prepared, nor knows how to create such one programme, but in any case, accept this bill that we have developed as a SDP club and offered here in the Croatian Assembly on medically assisted insemination. Because if we don't have that law later, we can seriously ask ourselves, which is why we don't have it. There are possible abuses. Our women are going to the Czech Republic right now, going to Ukraine, going to Slovenia, and then perhaps Minister Primorac will explore the genetic structure of the Croats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16909	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleagues and colleagues mostly made a series of remarks so that I wouldn't be burdening the assembly with individual objections to this law, but I have to stress one principle and one proposal. Therefore, the law that we have in the debate today is an extremely important law since it regulates the activity of the recipients, their education, professional supervision of work, and general control of childcare and birth. It is therefore an extremely important law, and therefore it is not good that it has a whole series of essential parts that are inconclusive and vague. Mr. Secretary of State has in his oral arguments made some clarifications that answer the questions that we heard here today, but I wonder why it is not in the law. So it's tragic, according to the secretary of state, that this law has been prepared for three years and that as a result of three years of work, such a proposal has come out. My people, that's really not possible. I therefore recall once again that it is not a good thing that it is underestimating our parliamentary representatives that we are constantly being justified by the non-quality laws by the need to adapt to the European Union and by adopting an emergency procedure. It is therefore clear that the law we have here today is unquality, and that this non-quality is justified by the need to adapt to the European Union and by adopting an emergency procedure. So if it is not possible already, since we voted to go by emergency procedure, I appeal to the Secretary of State to respect these remarks that are being made here today and to get a law that will be much more quality than this proposal, especially in transitional provisions where it is necessary to clearly define what will happen to the recipients that are currently in Croatia, those 1800. And what is tragic, as a member of the Croatian Medical Chamber, I have five pages of remarks that only one of which is respected. Therefore, the Croatian Medical Chamber as the highest professional association of doctors sent comments to five pages and only one was respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16911	Thank you. 5-minute debate, HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16912	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So here, let's start with the most banal thing. The secretary of state would have asked, and just before there was a debate, what is called the highest level of male recipient. So we have the recipient assistant, assistant, the recipient of the first-grader, the first-grader, but we also have the last category of midwife, so I'd like to pray in the male race what kind of expression is in Croatian. When we talk about the surface of the law, I really don't think I'm going to say that it was superficial, but there are a lot of mistakes and it's important in this bill, it stands, indeterminateness. As we have heard, it was time for four years for this law to work very hard. I cannot accept the argument that the European Union is requesting an urgent, urgent procedure to pass this law. Well, of course she's looking, but that's what she was looking for four or five years ago. When a law is passed, then four or five years is enough, but it can't be explained, I don't think it's possible to even justify the adoption of one in my opinion of such a serious law in an emergency procedure united in the first and second reading, especially because this debate has shown that there are indeed many remarks. Here's a little while ago, a fellow MP listed a piece of information that I want to repeat after this pay phone. Croatia's medical chamber thus, based on this bill, has made a lot of remarks about the text and content of the law. So on five pages and of these five pages one remark is appreciated. Now what do you say about that fact? The Croatian medical chamber is the highest professional medical organisation in healthcare and should be respected if nothing else, the observations of the profession. So here we have also heard no answer in this debate about what will happen to 1760 recipients who have been working in the health system for a long time and for which I assure you that they certainly have the quality of the level of primal care as they have in the European Union at that level of primacy. Therefore, the HDSSB suggests that this law goes into second reading, that all objections, ambiguities and proposals should be included in the final draft of the law, so that we do not accept the explanation and explanation, and we must adopt this law because the European Union requires it, to ensure that the recipients under the quotes "receive assistants" for 1760, to study at the expense of the state budget with one more remark, that this law stands for four or five years, that for those four or five years, there was enough time to organise classes at the level of high school, but also at the level of higher school and 140 thousand kunas to separate in the state budget only for the draft of the Croatian Chamber of Receivers. I ask you to secure the funding of the state budget for recipients who have worked in Croatian health for many years to successfully carry out this job, so that those who wish to be educated, give them time in legal provisions, study at the expense of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16913	Thank you. Final review. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16914	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me say a few words in the end, because during today's debate I have to admit the primates that in the Republic of Croatia have been through a troubled history of being a recipient, so they were nurses, so the nurses were the recipients and the activity was not defined in their own way. If they were from today's debate, at least that's what I expected, and I believe they wanted to see if finally in the Republic of Croatia the recipient would be a profession on the part where everyone deserves it. The debate was constructive and made it clear that some provisions might not be quite clear. Why? Because it does not solve the whole issue with one law, but it is solved through a series of laws that complement each other, so I have already cited the Law on academic title and professional education, but also other laws, and the Health Protection Act. And as such, this legal proposal creates only that additional framework, that final product, the product that will finally give the recipients in the Republic of Croatia activity, give the profession how it works. Therefore, if this legal proposal passes then the recipient is not a nurse or a nurse, she is the recipient. The recipient of the first-rate, first-rate, recipient assistant, assistant and, as such, have their own profession, have their own professional chamber and therefore have certain rights and obligations in the health care system such as the good practice of the European Union. The law, again, belongs to and belongs to the laws which the Republic of Croatia certainly agrees with the acquis and the legislation of the European Union. But even more than that, as will be the next item of the agenda, it belongs to a law that finally regulates certain things in the Republic of Croatia and there is a need for this way of adopting it for the reason that it is only one part, one link in the chain of systems that happens in this profession in the area of reception. It is necessary to speak out loud and clear and answer certain questions that have been specifically and constructively raised during today's debate, in order not to make it unclear. Article 36 of the Law says clearly and loudly, I will quote it: "Receivements that have acquired higher professional training, according to the earlier applicable regulations...", in translation, which were completed by the professional study of the sisterhood, which had completed other expert studies in biomedicine. And this is what has been questionable here today and which should be sent at the end of the day and the press release that will happen to the recipients who have worked for ten years with the recipients who have completed that part of the high professional study, it is clear that they have been carrying out the primary activity in the last ten years before the entry into force of this law can continue to carry out this activity under the conditions of obtaining approval within two years. Why are they two years old? That's what I said and in the debate, that they're going to get that first-rate status. Therefore, firstly, there is no need to worry that anyone would lose the profession they had so far, and this law created the foundation and it was therefore necessary to prepare that European recipient or recipient of first-rates in the Republic of Croatia can also become the one who earned it through her ten-year work with certain competences. So this article in 36 solves this issue as being constructively set up here, and I welcome it, because a lot of it is sent out of the wrong information on the ground. And this debate today will focus, like, That the law stands for four years, doesn't stand. The law has been made in the past six months in collaboration with associations. He was made at a certain pace, not to say the flat-rates that say the law is catastrophic, but they don't say which part of the law is so disastrous or any other way. So what I want to say on behalf of the promoter is that in the Republic of Croatia it is definitely sent to the recipients who are doing their job responsibly that, within what they have been doing so far, they will continue to do it. Also to say that those who may not have happened to know each other, although they were also media-accompanied and warned that those who worked in the system at the reception jobs as it was so far were to wear the title of the assistant recipient, the recipient of the assistant, that this was already arranged by other laws and that the basis for further education was being laid. The remarks submitted here are said to have been taken from the Croatian medical chamber and are said not to have been accepted. The essence of the remarks should be considered. Those who were absolutely related to the primacy were accepted, and the remark that we have, for example, concerned, and one will be indicated only. It was an observation, for example, of the responsibility of the recipient to whom she is called here, when she is responsible or when she is not responsible, which is also obvious not to know this legal proposal when it is said that the recipient will respond if she did not meet a ballot which the minister did not bring because no deadline was written. And it is clear and loud here that the recipient is not responsible and that the Croatian medical chamber has objected. I say responsibly, it is not responsible for proceedings in the event that, despite the use of knowledge and skills, he has not provided medications or when he could not have successfully carried out receiving care or if he could not fill out that form. Therefore, this law will not lead to the punishment of the recipient or the transfer of responsibility to the recipient. This law will provide both loud and clear rights and obligations to recipients and thus protect one of the activities that is honorable in this. I have to say now, clearly and loudly, certain other situations. I expected it personally, I think I'm right, I don't want it to affect how anyone will conduct the debate and everyone has everything first, but I thought we'd get a quality debate about the midwives just out of gratitude for that profession, which is their job after a number of years in a particular section gets first time and on its own. Because we'll remember earlier in the last century. Grandma, what the midwives translated today gave birth to homes, they gave birth to hospitals. Then during the introduction of healthcare, they lost that status. Harmonisation with the European Union and regulation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we have restored that status. For this reason, speaking here that this is a catastrophic law can be, everyone has the right to their own opinion, but it has definitely been assessed by competent institutions from Europe that the law is good, that the law ensures what its legal purpose was, as it has provided for nurses, as it has provided doctors and everyone else. And in fact, we are still proposing on behalf of the promoters that this law be passed in order to continue the course of affairs and further chains as I quote, we can, in time and in quality, solve the problems of hosthood in Croatia in a good and quality way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16915	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16916	Mr. President. The articles of Rules of Procedure from 111 to 115 are injured, primarily Article 112, which speaks about the government's responsibility for its work and decisions. Mr. President, it is absolutely inappropriate, but it is also inadmissible that the Secretary of State, or a representative of the Government, or anyone sitting here, allow himself to assess the quality of the debate and the overall debate that is held this morning, throughout the morning on one Reception Act. I think the role of the one who proposes to explain the bill, but among other things, at the end of the day, in his final word, at least answers the questions that we have asked as advocates and MPs here today. For example, to me. Not one of my questions asked by Mr. Secretary of State has answered, but he has given himself the right to assess the quality of the debate that was conducted here today in the morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16917	Madam MPs has not been injured by the Rules of Procedure in any of their provisions, to the soul a lack of authority in your opinion, an explanation or an answer to your question by a representative of the Government may be criticised, but that does not mean that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. The Rules of Procedure have not been explicitly injured, although I think it is the government's duty to give reasons and to give answers to those questions raised in this debate, however strictly looking at the Rules of Procedure has not been injured. And we have a correction to Mr Miranda Mrssic's incorrect quote. And the violation of the same Rules of Procedure? Okay. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16918	Your Honor, Mr. President. Article 112 has been injured, and I refer to Article 209. In fact, the secretary of state and the representative of the government is here to defend the law and answer our remarks, not to assess how we are discussing it, and it is not the first time that this happened in this House, and I ask that the Secretary of State be warned that he is not here to assess how we are discussing and what we are discussing, but to respond to our discussions and our remarks. He hasn't responded to any of what we've given, and I'm asking him not to do it in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16919	The Chapter 112 you quoted is not injured because it states that the Government is responsible to the Parliament for its work and decisions, responsible of course, and the President and members of the government are jointly responsible for the decisions taken by the Government, and are particularly responsible for their work area. This member of the Rules of Procedure is not injured if there is a requirement to determine responsibility, there is a procedure for this, and this is not an Article 112 that was here, quoted. And secondly, why don't a representative of the government express his opinion on how Article 209 has also been assessed in no of its provisions, please, no articles of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. And we can move on. If you think there's a procedure to determine that. Thank you very much. I'll remind you that with this we have concluded this debate, about this item on the agenda. First of all, the Final Proposal of the Law on Primacy. It was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 160. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Gordana Sobol. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16921	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment is adopted by replacing the Committee on Legislatives in the first sentence: "Accepting the Primal direction" with the words "Primellian Nurse" [[In that part we accept.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16922	It is accepted in this statement by the Secretary of State and becomes an integral part of the bill. The second amendment to Articles 7, 13, 14 and 15 shall apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16923	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16924	It is accepted and becomes an integral part of the proposal. Third, Article 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16925	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16926	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Fourth, Article 27.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16927	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16928	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. It is then the fifth in Article 31.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16929	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16930	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 6th, Article 37.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16931	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16932	Thank you very much. Now we've got Mrs. Representatives Gordana Sobol. Amendment 1 to Article 2
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16933	The amendment is not accepted, because it is true that the noun is “received” by a female. However, both gender workers are involved in the work of the recipient and the name of the recipient or English midwifes is one reference to both sexes. The same problem has also been addressed by the adoption of amendments of the Committee on Law to Article 1 of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16934	Mrs. Sobol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16935	I am not satisfied with the argument, because national policy to promote gender equality of the Law on Gender Equality and the Government Regulation, which the Government has already adopted in relation to the names of civil servants and officials and to the expected changes in names by the national classification of occupation, should already come and there will be a change. If you couldn't accept this, then at least you should have accepted it, let's say that the words "health workers" are replaced by the words "health workers/employees". Because in one part of the text you recognize and speak natively sensitive language when you talk about assistants, assistants. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16936	Please, who is for this amendment that is otherwise not accepted by the Government? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2 to the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16937	The amendment is not accepted because, within the meaning of that article of this law, it is considered to be a knowledge acquired from a professional study. Reasoning on scientific facts is an integral part of the curricula and education which is not subject to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16938	I'd like to see Mrs. Representative. Here you go, Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16939	Justification of... facts I find it extremely important to stand in the provisions and this law, and regarding scientific facts or whatever, and only the Ministry of Health has, unfortunately, shown on several occasions, even when health care is at stake and when we have asked for the introduction of education based on scientific facts, it is refused especially when it comes to something that the Ministry of Health has been responsible for national gender equality policy adopted in this Parliament unanimously if I am not mistaken, so by consensus you should have done, and this is a care processor during physiological births. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16940	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Third Amendment of Ms. Gordane Sobol to Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16941	The amendment is not accepted, because the ally "and" in a spirit where it can be carried out on its own, gives quite enough to express this item.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16942	Mrs. Sobol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16943	Well, Mr. Secretary of State, when you give such an explanation why you reject, I don't really know if anyone has realized what the amendment is really about. It is in Article 13(3) that I propose that the words ‘and the doctor’ be replaced by the words ‘and the doctor/medicine’, and in fact this is about who controls the work of the recipient, assistant, or the recipient of the assistant. I propose, and according to the fact that we are also going towards European and global experiences of greater independence and trust in the work of the recipient, therefore, that the supervision of the work of the assistant/assistence recipient can also be performed by an independent recipient. Therefore, it is not necessary to monitor the doctor/medicine at all times because it is prescribed through other articles when it has to be. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16944	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4 to Article 16
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16945	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the patient’s statement refers to the patient’s health care services and can also be considered a healthy patient, while the patient’s expression refers to a patient who has identified the condition of the disease. It is also true that a pregnant woman is a female patient, but in pregnancy the same statement is used for the mother and child, where it is not necessary for the child to be female. The goal of the recipient is also to take care of the mother and child. We believe that the wording referred to in the spirit of the law is sufficient, respecting the fact that the amendment of the Legislative Committee also states that Article 1 complements that the terms used in this law and the regulations adopted on the basis of it, which have a gender meaning whether they are used in male or female, cover both male and female.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16946	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16947	So we started to meet after the National Gender Equality Policy, after the Anti-Discriminal Law and the Law on Gender Equality in one practice which you, the pronunciation is therefore male, are automatically considered neutral and apply to female and male gender. I'm just curious about one thing. Let's say it didn't occur to the Legislative Committee, perhaps, that since it's a profession in which most women are in the vast majority of women, it's to say that those expressions used in the female race are automatically applied in the same way and in the male race. Well, at least in this part of the law that I'm saying, it's mostly about women doing that job. But I remind you that there is a national policy to promote gender equality, that a law on academic names that recognises male-female gender in the writing of academic names, that a government regulation exists on civil servants and tenants, where exactly it says that male and female works are being written. And it's not clear to me that only when we make the laws that we can't do it. In addition, colleagues and colleagues, I remind you that we and our Rules of Procedure have changed exactly in a way that all birth-sensitive nouns must be written in the male-female family. And I guess I don't have to remind you of what we all brought here together. I don't think it's really a burden on the legislator to put that hair bar with the doctor and write a doctor or vice versa, a worker/worker. I don't know what the problem is, and I don't think it should cause any confusion. I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16948	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5, to article 17 of Madam Representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16949	Can I just do something?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16951	I'm sorry, because now I don't know if there's been any confusion because what you've put under Amendment 4, my amendment 4, is something else. I don't know or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16952	Which article, that's important.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16953	Okay, okay, let's move on. Done.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16954	What? Okay. On Amendment 5 now, the same MPs. Let's see. Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16955	The amendment is not accepted. Scientific facts make up a set of precisely defined and certain data that may better apply the expression of scientific knowledge. However, the study of primacy is based on scientific knowledge, which is part of the rules on education and is not necessarily a reference to scientific knowledge in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16956	Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16957	I must say once again, from the experience we have with the Ministry of Health, their relationship to education, education based on scientific facts, I think this is necessary. In particular, I remind you once again, on purpose I remind you that you have not yet drawn up the Procedure or the Rules of Care during physiological births, and I ask that we vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16958	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 6 to Article 18
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16959	The amendment is not accepted, because in the spirit of the above... and believes that it applies to patients, patients who are undergoing procedures as instructed by their doctor, which is visible and already from the following subparagraph where they say: "when they change the way and the contents of the doctor of the scheduled therapy". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16960	Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16961	In this amendment, I'm just going to say one more thing that actually applied to Amendment 4. In fact, we still seem to be, and it's obviously not going to change, because the woman who comes to our birthplaces is considered primarily a sick person. And you yourself, if I'm not mistaken, when you proposed this bill, I think I'm going to say that over 70% of the cases are normal physiological births, so without any complications. And from the beginning, since the patient's entry into the hospital is considered sick, I don't think it's right and that we obviously still live in our heads who knows where. Therefore, a woman, a healthy woman who gives birth to a healthy child, is not a patient. Birth is in such cases a physiological process, and I don't think it can be considered a disease. Since it might be too much to expect you might accept the client's name, I suggested it be a patient, but here. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16962	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 7 to Article 19
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16963	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason as mentioned in the previous amendment, because both of these articles do not refer to patients, but to the part of pregnant women, meaning those up to 30% of whom have had disease and are considered patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16964	Thank you. Mrs. Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16965	I don't think I can accept that argument, because then I want to know what other parts of the law you used instead of a patient's word for patient. I don't think so. But I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16966	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 8 to Article 20
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16967	The amendment is not accepted because the formulation in Article 20 is quite sufficient to determine how it is resolved if a patient entitled under the Law on the Protection of Patients’ Rights refuses the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16968	Mrs. Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16969	Unfortunately, in my opinion, I believe that in a sufficiently clear way this is not seen from the proposed one, and I have suggested that if a patient in accordance with the Patients' Rights Act knowingly refuses an orderly procedure or the administration of an orderly therapy, the recipient is required to immediately inform the authorised or authorised doctor or doctor or the doctor or the self-receiver. I wanted to point out here in particular that here it is important to recognise that the refusal of a particular procedure or therapy is the legal right of each patient and I believe that it should be considered primarily affirmative, not in the way that the Ministry of Health does. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16970	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 9 to Article 21
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16971	The amendment is not accepted from the opinion already given as in the previous amendment. The bill correctly and clearly defines that the recipient is not responsible if the patient uses the right to protect the right patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16972	Thank you. Mrs. Sobol. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 10 to Article 27
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16973	The amendment is not accepted, as the article setting out the role of the chamber is not the role of the recipient. The role of the recipient is defined by other articles of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16974	Mrs. Sobol, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16975	I already thought that... Look at what I also wanted to achieve with Amendment 10, and also with the next amendment that I am not responding to the argument again, that through this section that applies to the chamber, emphasizes what seems to me to be an absolute little emphasis in Croatia, I would even say we don't respect enough, so it is not sufficiently or absolutely evident from the proposal for a law on the activity of the recipient, which is that there is absolutely no recognised role of the recipient in the protection of the reproductive health of women and newborns. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, something that is common, which is practice, which is also in line with the European Association that cares about recipients. I'm sorry that this is the way to kill something that I think is very good for both women and their newborn children. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16976	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And Amendment 11 to Article 27 is the same as paragraph 1. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16977	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons as the previous amendment, as this Article of this Act sets out the role of the Chamber, and the definition and the role of the recipient shall be defined by other articles of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16978	Thank you. We vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final proposal of the Primacy Act. Please, who's for the Final Proposition of the Reception Act, please raise your hands? Thank you. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The result? This law was passed with 78 votes for and 30 abstentions, along with amendments accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to: - Final draft law on physical therapy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 162; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, legislator Mario Habek and MP Bruno Kurelic. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Services. Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16980	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There is another legal proposal before you that for the first time regulates certain activities, this time it is a physiotherapy activity. In physical medicine, there is a particular branch dealing with physical therapy, i.e. physical therapy, which is the city in this Republic of Croatia is a medium and high professional preparation, so for the first time, a first-rate and basic profession was introduced, which was absolutely necessary for compliance and setting as a unique definition of profession and activity for the purpose of performing this activity in a health system but also outside the health system without specific standards, which has been actively extended from the public health system to the private sector and which, in the whole system, works about 3.5 thousand workers, different, therefore, two degrees of education and which have been proposed to resolve the law of this activity, should also be resolved by a system of standards, the application of certain new technologies, a system of long-term medical training, a course of permanent medical training in the field of physiotherapy. In this legislative proposal, as before, it is proposed, therefore, to regulate physical therapy activities, in such a way as to determine who can carry out such physical therapy activities in a way that determines who will define the standard of education, further training, and to introduce and chamber physical activity. As we discussed in the joint debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act and stated, health activities in Croatia, the larger ones are in principle legally resolved. That's how the treatment was solved, so the sorority was solved, so here's the proposal before you today was the Reception Act, so the pharmacists were solved. And then the question arises whether all activities that take place within the framework of health and which fall under health care activities solve each for themselves or whether to set certain conditions by which to determine which activities should be settled unquestionably as independent activities, that is to say, in the context of certain independent activities and which activities should be dealt with by one, let us call it the general provisions. Given that independence from the state administration means true independence in a professional sense, as experienced by the medical profession through the Croatian medical chamber, as it experiences sisterhood through the sister's chamber, it is believed that by giving public authority to the chambers under certain laws we can introduce standards, we can closely monitor and see it in the work of these five chambers so far established and that they must have their absolute independence. That's why we said that financial independence can only be created by the chamber system if they are financially independent of the state budget, if they are financially inconsistencies, let's call it the so-called state system, as I say again in all the chambers. In the same sense, it was decided and the economic indicators showed what would be the minimum number of members of a chamber that within the framework of the Croatian daily life, this chamber could have its own financial independence, so that the chamber has absolute independence in the professional direction and no interference except what is the obligation of the state when public powers are transferred, which is to control the exercise of public authority. The number moves somewhere between two and a half and three thousand members of the profession, which is spoken of by another additional one, therefore on the basis of what is seen, an additional motive for the physical therapy activity in the Republic of Croatia to be resolved in one special way. In the course of the adoption of one such, or proposal brought before you for discussion, numerous consultations have been made and it is the impression that the physical therapy public is very ready to welcome one such proposal. For what reason? For the first time, when the standards of physical activity are prescribed, when the responsibilities are prescribed and the responsibilities are signed and competences will then be able to create quality and raise the height of the profession as such. As we discussed in the previous agenda, some things have been shown, perhaps now in the opening words absolutely say something more. The Law on Physical Activity is not a law which again is the same island in the sea as I said last time, which means it also falls under the provisions of certain other laws in certain segments or has been solved for example by certain other laws, so now it could only specify one to begin with. That there should be no fear, such as the fear shown by the Croatian medical chamber that physiotherapists get some absolute independence in physical therapy and that, for example, specialists who prescribe physical therapy do not have an impact on that or that something that took a minimum of 10 years of education is needed, I am talking about higher education without primary education, that is now being transferred to a lower layer. No, I don't. The health care law in its provisions and says that physical therapy, that a physiotherapist works according to instructions, under supervision, and he defines it as such, and therefore it was not necessary in this law. Because repeating the provisions can be done if there is a particular point to be made, but we felt it unnecessary to go now to repeat the provisions and create an artificial law with a larger one, so that the law would have more articles when it was already settled by the Health Protection Act. Also, the Law on academic title and the Law on academic title and professional education, which was also passed here in the Parliament, resolved the question of so-called in part, whether it was physiotherapy, physiotherapy and so on. So first-rate, first-rate, and that. That part's settled. What may remain really questionable is the following and should be clearly stated in the introduction and state this because perhaps the subject of the biggest, biggest discussion, the biggest debate on the grounds that the intention may not be understood and it is my duty here to say what is the intention of the promoter of this law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Regulation of the area of physical therapy. Why do I say that? Because in the Republic of Croatia, we have had the practice of unregulated activities in some other segments as such not having clearly prescribed who carries out a particular activity or in any way? That was also the physical activity. So you got the situation that one other activity that we hope to or know that we will, but we hope to bring a new proposal to this House in the near future. This is, for example, the activity of working therapy as one of the specific activities that exists in all countries in Europe, there is good practice. Then we will prescribe this activity of working therapy then it will be known in the activities of work therapy, which is actually working therapy by the right definition and not how it is understood today. That's why we had an example system for someone with the title of a working therapist to perform physical therapy. And that was, you know, open to say if it was right, it wasn't right. That's what we can discuss and that's what's going to happen. And it was in the discussions. But could that have been prevented? Couldn't be prevented because there were no regulations? Is that supposed to be prevented? And that's what you need to see. But for this reason, we believe that one such proposal as we have stated and in the last proposal we are regulating the situation in a particular area. We place this condition on the right feet, define the broader framework of those who can do it without entering that other profession or any third profession but only by giving it to who? And in further procedures, you can freely say when the Health Activity Act will also be discussed in the framework of work therapy can then be defined and said definitely what work therapy is because it is certainly not physical therapy. This is certainly not physiotherapy and working therapy is not a physical activity. And do working therapists have the competence to carry it out? According to the current system of education, we may be able to say they have or do not, and we can't delaminate, but we can't close our eyes directly before they are implemented and that it is acceptable and that it is, as such, a law which does not say who are all physiotherapists, but a law that says that in the Republic of Croatia should look like physical therapy activity in this proposal may be disputed, on the one hand, and not too much, and that is that those who act in the conduct of physical care, those who conduct physical therapy are clearly defined 4 categories, and this should be the basis that will give direction where further physical therapy will develop. All other provisions of this law are sufficiently similar to those of all the laws in the professions of health care, means medical care, dental activity, pharmaceutical and so on, as well as the rights and competences that are laid down in certain frameworks, which we also consider not to be subject to one such law because such a law should only form an activity, determine competences and put the matter on its feet and the acts it brings again, so one institution with public authority, one association with public powers, whatever we want to call, are acts that need to be laid down further clearly in the light and cooperation of the Ministry of Health but with the system of work of physical activity. I believe that the proposal that lies before you is good, that it will certainly lead to improvement in the physical therapy system in the Republic of Croatia and I can also freely announce that, these proposals that are here these days are one of the beginnings of what is called a real solution to the situation and the setting up of the situation in regulation, so that we can say that if this legal proposal is accepted and physiotherapy in Croatia, or physiotherapy in Croatia, it becomes a regulated profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16981	Thank you. Committees on legislation, European integration, health care and social care. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16982	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Physiotherapy is a professional group in healthcare in the Republic of Croatia that directly provides physical therapy to the patient. A physical therapy, physiotherapeutic care consists of a number of diagnostic, therapeutic procedures and, of course, continuous monitoring, keeping records and, of course, timely reporting of doctors at all levels of health care. So what are those levels? So let's say in the hospital section, so in orthopedics specifically where the most significant operational procedures occur is unimaginable. And in all the places where mobility and function are threatened, so to speak. So there are no areas where there is no and a particularly significant place in that part is certainly a neurology where today at a time of numerous cerebrovascular illnesses and loss of function is an unimaginable work without the activity of a physiotherapist. And cardiosurgery, including pediatrics, in almost every area that is extremely necessary is this activity. But it is especially necessary to mention the same in the area of home care. There are about 400 physiotherapists who are immeasurably significant in this area and in terms of quality, as well as the quality of life of those persons who need such physical care. So let's mention here, of course, in a country that's abounding with so many thermal spas, etc. that also physiotherapists find their special place and since tourism is a strategic branch I believe and will find even more in the future. So it's certainly a really important profession, but it's also a figure of 31 December 2007. 3457 physiotherapists, of which 2100 high professional training, 1357 medium professional training. So here's the concept of physical therapy in each of us or in the general public immediately associates that almost everyone knows about both complexes and magnets and lasers etc. And, of course, what our public has is a beautiful one for the golden hands of those people who of course carry out that activity. This is very important, but there is one problem in all of this that this activity is not regulated legally except in part of the Health Protection Act where private practice is regulated. Now here we are, we have a law that will really regulate and help solve this problem and the Croatian Democratic Community club will, of course, support it. And they'll support him for the following reasons. First, of course, because legally, this legislative proposal will regulate, regulate the content, way of acting as health care professionals whose activity is an integral part of health activities of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Second. Because here are physiotherapists with nurses, let's say, and these are one of the most mobile health professions and very wanted within Europe will in some ways enable them to compete, quality competitiveness in that European Union market. It will therefore be regulated as a profession and will be recognised by automation in all European Union countries. But we must say in accordance with that Directive 2005/36 and from the European Union. But no expert exams, no traineeships. That's what we have to mention in this place. Third, the legal solution is complementary to the definition of physical therapy as a basic and important content of the physical therapy activity as defined by the World Health Organization, stating that physical therapy is an integral part of the overall health care and includes the promotion of health, disease prevention and the implementation of physical therapy procedures. The fourth particularly important thing I want to say here is that the legislative proposal regulates the conditions for carrying out the activity. The terms, here's a lot of the previous points we've had a lot to argue about. But this part, in any case, is regulated by Articles 7, 8 and 9, so let me read them in some way. Article 7 which states: “The fundamental education of physiotherapists is obtained by completing a physiotherapy study that ensures a high level of education in accordance with the rules in the area of higher education.” Article 8. “The completion of the studies referred to in Article 7 of this Act shall give rise to the right to the title of first-rate physiotherapist”. And Article 9. “Controlling the work of a trainee physiotherapist can only be carried out by a physiotherapist who has the authority to work on his own.” I think it was necessary to say this, and another fifth moment which of course gives us the right to support this law says that supervision of the work of a trainee physiotherapist could be carried out by a physiotherapist who has the proper approval for independent work, a license. We all know that. Sixth. The right to enrol in the physical therapist's register would have been achieved by a physiotherapist who had passed a professional exam after obtaining a basic education for physiotherapists and after a traineeship has been carried out. And right seven of what we said earlier, the right to work on its own would have been a physiotherapist who was granted the approval for independent work, i.e. We know the license. Right? The eighth important moment is certainly to be mentioned here, is that the bill regulates professional supervision of the work of a physiotherapist. The methods and conditions of implementation of that supervision would be prescribed by the Croatian Chamber of Physiotherapy, so allow a few words about the Chamber of Physiotherapy. Mostly we all know what her activity is, but since this is a new chamber, I have to say, let me say a few words. The Croatian Chamber of Physiotherapy is an independent and independent professional organisation with the property of a legal person and public powers representing the interests of a physiotherapist, physiotherapist technicians, working therapists and masseurs. Article 25 speaks of the powers of the chamber. He runs the register of members, issues, renewals, and also withdraws the approval for independent work, conducts professional supervision, brings a code of physical ethics, delinthology. The founder of the chamber is the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which also exercises control over the legality of the work of the chamber. And the ninth thing is always set up everywhere which is a very important quality control. Quality control is very important and important and is often mentioned in this House. In order to carry out the physiotherapy activity, a specially educated physiotherapist has been selected by the employer and the Ministry of Health. Of course, this is subject to private physiotherapy, which has not been done so far. It is also important to mention and obviously from these nine points that I have stated this way that it will certainly improve this important area and that it should be supported by this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16983	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16984	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In recent times, more and more proud legislators of the law have been rounding up their efforts to create new laws, explaining their efforts with about the following words. “Our vehicle ministry has completed the task in the fifth gear.”Respected, driving, especially fifth speed driving is not the happiest comparison to measure the efficiency of this job, only if the goal is not to drive at the fifth speed and users of our services. I can understand the unification in the debate of six health laws last Friday, because they have made their amendments to cosmetic changes compared to the current legal frameworks needed in the finale to satisfy the free movement of people and services that we all expect in our movement through the European labour market. But here we have today's proposal for a law on physical therapy. Reading this proposal gives the impression that this law is wanted, so to speak, by way of a detour, quickly and without delay, and everything under the parole must be adapted to the European Union and its frameworks. But is that exactly how it is in this case? This profession is not explicitly mentioned in EU Directive 36/05 as in the case of the Reception Act, which is also a new legislative proposal that we had previously had at reading and adoption. To say the least, why did we mix this law for already stalking the 5th speed, that is, why should we bring it in by emergency procedure? That's my question to the proposer. I ask all of us, does this open up the possibility of the need for changes and additions of this law soon? Let's let go of the speed competition for the competition itself. It's far more important here what we're going to get to the finish line with than just getting to the finish line, besides there, dear colleagues and colleagues more and we can't, at least first. I'll explain the argumentation for these thoughts later, now a few words about this activity. Life experience often testifies to the slow and difficult return of the organism through rehabilitation into normal life activities if we have been forced to lie in bed for a long time because of some serious illness or injury. It's a very common case for older people who find themselves in such a situation that their return is gone. And that's why physical therapy has great significance in the overall health care. It is primarily a dynamic process that includes evaluation, thus providing intervention and value done. Taking into account what I said, the operational operator of the activity, I repeat the operational basis of the current bang was a physiotherapist who performed the physical therapy process. Physical therapy provides services to people in order to develop, maintain and restore maximum functional mobility and functional ability in all lifetimes. History of medicine mentions physical therapy as the oldest therapeutic measure. The values of heliotherapy, treatment with solar energy directly and indirectly are known about as far as human history goes. However, these two full - time treatments have been experienced in recent times, thanks primarily to many scientific discoveries, especially in the field of physics and their usability in the field of physical therapy. I believe these few notes gave you insight into the importance of the content of this activity. These more legal norms of this activity have full weight and should be followed and respected by the proposals of the profession. In the case of this law, I'm going to say the waist because at least one more one of them found themselves here is an independent profession covered by this law. The conclusion is that respecting the profession of the proposed legal solutions is sufficient that they were not there. There is no question about the need to regulate this activity, especially if the regulation of this activity brings a clear and precise partial action, in this case more activities involved in these legal normatives. It is good to regulate the establishment and activities of the Chamber of Physiotherapy as a roof professional organisation that provides for the licensing and relicencing of its members as a result of continued professional education and professional supervision of work. But by reading certain articles of this law, I believe that many who operate within the healthcare system would find a significant amount, at least indifference in such proposed solutions. So let's take the turn. First, it falls into the eyes of the distance of the profession of a physiotherapist from any influence of a specialist doctor, especially in the sphere of influence of a physicist’s physician at the very course of the treatment procedure, which ultimately determines the result of the procedure. The more a doctor specializes in physiology, the more he creates and suggests therapy. Article 2(2) of the physiotherapist performs and manages the physical therapy process, it is not clear exactly what it means to manage it in the light of the clearly established responsibility of the specialist physician for the prescribed therapy. Two, of course, questionable and inclusion of working therapists and masseuses in the Chamber of Physiotherapists, I say here the chamber, with the obligation of licensing and relicence within this activity because they are independent professions and professions that have their own education within their activities, especially in the domain of the working therapist, and all of this is even more surprising when it is known that the EU's intensity is reducing the number of licensed professions, and we license the masseuses of buyers who, based on the current state of education, had 3 years of secondary school. Under three, this combines completely different independent professions of physiotherapist, working therapist, and also masseur of different content and degree of education, which is the least said strange solution resulting in the need to clearly define what physical care is in view of the professions that have entered its field of action. Four, especially here, is not clear why a working therapist, which is a completely independent profession, and the scope of its activities is wider, I repeat beyond the activity of the physiotherapist involved in this legislative proposal. This is clouding, so I can say freely degrades the profession of a working therapist. Given that we are harmonising these laws with European norms, we note that legal solutions that regulate working therapy practices are defined in most EU countries and that we are constantly calling for European solutions should be taken as a basis for the creation of our legal proposals. Personally, colleagues and colleagues, I'm not too surprised by these legal decisions. By including a war therapist under this activity, especially after I have listened to the tone of the government session in which the health minister represents the adoption of a package of 8 laws to the prime minister, of course after a shooting drive, explaining the Law on Physical Activity says: We and in Croatia have over three thousand physicists and this figure requires that we regulate this profession by special law. Of course, here the profession of a specialist doctor is replaced by the profession of a physiotherapist spoken of by this law. Personally, I speak personally, I do not doubt, unlike the part of the public, that the minister does not distinguish these two professions, but I find disputed driving in the fifth gear because it obviously affects the quality of driving itself, so I ask the question: Aren't the working therapists of the collateral victim of that driving? And under the 5th standard of education, i.e. the basic education for all these professions, I'm talking about masseuse buyers and working therapists who are within this system, i.e. They work within the activity of physical therapy care is not clearly defined. And let me get this straight. It is clear that the work of a physiotherapist as a segment of health care has so far been excluded from clearly set legal standards. It is good for this activity to legally regulate the standards and conditions of education of operators, so set standards for physical therapists to control their work. However, it should certainly avoid the illogicalities it has in this law, form as a whole without justifying itself by the proposing that these issues are settled in the Health Protection Act, the Health Safety Quality Act and other positive regulations. This is the law, the professional law on physical therapy, and thus the actors of this activity. This is just an example that the speed of lawmaking in this assembly is not a parameter that should guarantee the success of the work done. Based on these indeterminateities, the SDP club will be abstentioned in the vote of the draft law, I am talking about the substantively resolved proposal of the Law on Physical Activity. I believe that the quality of the laws passed must not replace the quantity of laws passed. You know that old folk saying. Recognising that I may have been mistaken in this case in formulating some solutions is nothing more than admitting that I am smarter today than I was yesterday. We colleagues and colleagues will submit amendments that I hope if you adopt them to make a clearer and more precise formulation of some items, i.e. the whole proposal for this law at all. Thank you all very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16985	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Nedelja Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16986	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, MPs and MPs. I will correct the three incorrect allegations of an esteemed representative who says he is getting the impression that he wants to get in the way of passing this law. Another false allegation, to unite different professions. And the third incorrect allegation that working therapists are collateral victim of fifth gear. Of course the passing of this law is the intention of actually proposing to regulate this area of physical therapy activity. Furthermore, the physical therapeutic activity becomes a profession, as is the case with the law, the bill determines who can carry out this activity, and for the first time we definitely have a way out of the public health system framework and entering the private sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16987	HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16988	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. There is a traumatic, surgical, and orthopedic saying that says: “Life is movement and movement is life. ” Here's our vice president. He knows that, considering the recent operation, right? It is exactly what solves, which adorns and makes their work noble, physical medicine and rehabilitation services in the Republic of Croatia as well as those working in private physical therapy offices. So these are people who are quite certain in a country that I have to say so many disabled workers and all the other disabled and retired, it's a service that, by working on this one, based on this first saying, so said, life is the movement and movement of life, it's just the end of that rate and disability and work incompetence. As a result, the proposal for this Law on Physical Activity is also interesting and should be considered, and I would like to compare this law, i.e. to look at the light of the former who was here for the debate, the Reception Act, and I think it has a lot of similarities, but also some things that are different from that law. The similarities are that the applicant has European intentions, and they are all the same, i.e. those of us who have already been brought forth behind this pay phone. This bill of law is in any case for those future generations I would say right away at the beginning, the first-grader to come from our schools, high schools where six semesters acquire the knowledge of the first-grader physiotherapist. We already have people who are studying and a degree in physical therapy. Here it's not defined in this bill of law that they're professions, as they're called, whether it's a graduate physiotherapist, whether it's a semi-doctor, a semi-speciest of physical medicine. I'm right to wonder, as someone else here has asked, what will happen to our physicist specialists and will that specialization be extinguished? Is she needed? What will be its area of action in our health care? The very opening part of the bill states that we have 3457 physiotherapists. Of which, 2100 are more or higher professional equipment. What does that mean? Are physicists included here or not? 1357 is a medium professional cook, that's the difference. In fact, we don't have a single person with a high level of expertise or a first-rate. In physical therapy we have 2100, I don't really know what part of those who graduated from physical therapy from those who ended up as first graders. You can't see it here from this material. And in fact, the question arises again in consultation with the base yesterday and the day before yesterday, which will happen and how those who finished five, ten years ago will become first graders. What kind of name do they have? If this is a first-rate physiotherapist, what is the status of people who have graduated from high school for a physical therapist and have two years more schools for a physical therapist? In this bill I do not see a solution for them, perhaps the secretary of state will explain it to us, but if we have already pleaded that the recipients of those who wish can continue their education for the first-timer, as my colleague from HDSSB Šišljagic said, to pay for it from the state budget. Then this year, which is missing for those who have a higher school for physical therapists, should apply on the same principle, so that these people become first-raters, which goes to Croatia for the benefit of the fact that by the number of first-raters, they would approach the standards of the European Union. The difference between the Primari Act and this law is that private activity in physical therapy has really developed in Croatia, and patronage physical therapy has developed. And in Article 2 of this proposal, the law states clearly that a physiotherapist is therefore thought of as a first-rater, I also wanted to explain this to the amendment, is a health care professional who performs physical therapy and manages the physical therapy process. With the physical therapy process, it's completely different from the physical therapy procedure. Perhaps two words are similar, it may seem to someone that it is not significant, but quite significant that physical therapy is done and managed by the physical therapy process. As this is said, that is, the process is seen in Article 17, so I felt that it was necessary to add the word first - grader here. So, physiotherapist first grader. The same story is repeated in connection with the education of the first-rate physiotherapist according to whom they differ again from European first-raters, they must go to the traineeship for a year and a professional exam on which there may be another question, let's say what color the bastards are on the Istrian goat instead of which side the goat is facing. Article 16 of this Law states in the opening section that a physiotherapist is obliged to be taken in a physical therapy procedure by a patient or a patient, so that there is no misunderstanding, according to the indication of physical therapy by a doctor. What doctor? Physician specialist, surgeon, neurologist, traumatologist? What doctor? And he will develop a plan and program of physical therapy according to the medical diagnosis manual. What's a physicist gonna do then? What's his duty then? So far, in current practice, a specialist physicist prescribes the procedure and procedures of physical therapy. Now, he says in this opening part, he's making a physiotherapist. He's building a plan and a program. What do we need a physicist for then? What's going on with the physicists, where are they? Especially what the doctor says in the opening section, doesn't say physicist specialist, doesn't say I told the surgeon or traumatologist or neurologist or neurosurgeon, so I don't forget someone, if I forget to tell me. So I think there's also one in that article 16 that should define that so there wouldn't be any failures and there wouldn't be any misunderstandings. I got the question here in my hospital, how are they today, and there are already students, six semesters after the Bologna Process and they came to work and there are plenty of them, equal to those who have finished high school, who have four semesters. They told me that the only difference in Dubrava was made to say in the credit or pay grade regarding the salaries of those people. I don't see, I didn't find it, maybe I'll tell the secretary of state something to say, but here it's like it's a little out of control. Since I have assessed that the law, a bill with similar shortcomings, doubts and doubts, is similar to that of the Primacy Act, I think the HDSB club will remain restrained in connection with this law and I think it should be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16989	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16990	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary of State, I must admit that, on the very side of the Health Committee, when we were listening to the reasoning of this law, it was truly the impression that the government only had positive intentions in regulating this area of defining the activities of physical therapists, or physical therapy. However, we have been silenced by a whole series of things that are in the meantime you want not only to expose some other colleagues, other clubs, but also from the reporting of professional, professional circles of people dealing with therapeutic activity, regardless of whether it is physical therapy or other forms of therapy. I am concerned in principle about this fear and the vision that the government and the Ministry of Health have towards the civil sector. The level of cooperation and consultation is too low, as two professional associations are now seen to be open against such a law by the Croatian Association of Working Therapys and the Croatian choir of physiotherapists. And not only that, but to demand that the procedure for its adoption be suspended. They claim that this law did not properly regulate the area being spoken of, that many categories that do not go together were mixed, that two completely separate professions are placed in the same basket, in a way that is subsidized to each other and that, of course, the facts of life, or practice, are being silenced. What's this about? There are three different professional associations that gather different types of therapists that this law tries to put all under the same hat and the fact is that the ministry only cooperates with one of those three. And these two others, their demands are clearly ignored. On 12 September 2008, the Croatian Association of Labour Therapys addressed all its comments to the proposed law to the Ministry of Health and Social Care, as well as to members of the Social Economic Council whose session was to be discussed, but the session was not held. Furthermore, there are also oral and written warnings that the activity of working therapy cannot be regulated by this law. And now he had one contradiction. It comes from what Secretary of State Golem said here today in oral exposure. Therefore, the Law on Physical Activity on the one hand also includes working therapists putting them in the category of persons who carry out these tasks with medium professional training, and it is known that they have their own educational programme at the health university, and on the other hand, we will specifically regulate the field of working therapy, i.e. work therapeutic activities. What does that mean now? So, on the one hand in law, we say in this, that all working therapists will have to join the physical therapist's chamber and that it will prescribe disciplinary conditions for them. And on the other hand, it is said that they will have a special legal solution, so I guess they will have a special chamber, or if they can't have a special chamber because of their numbers, whether they will be part of that chamber they've been talking about for some time, which should cover a whole series of health professions that aren't covered by existing chambers. Apparently, not only the Croatian Association of Working Therapys, but also the Croatian Congress of Physiotherapists concluded an agreement with the Croatian Association of Laboratory Medicine, the Croatian Society of Medical Radiology Engineers, the Croatian Sanitary Association and the Croatian Hypotherapy Association to form a special chamber that would gather around 10,000 people. Now it is not clear whether this law will be implemented and applied to working therapists only in cases where physical therapy is conducted, which is relatively few cases, because physical and working therapy almost lacks similarity. Working therapy does not normally involve any physical contact with a patient, it is quite another, and until then a special law will be passed for working therapists who do their job, so work therapy, and then they will have to be the first members of one chamber, and these others will have to be members of a special chamber or what it is about. We respect the applicant's intensities to introduce order, to define, that these special health professions form and by law, define their space of action and responsibility, and the possibility of engagement through professional chambers and of course the need for licensing. We respect all that, but there's a big space here that can be a space of abuse. It would have been much better if the government had adopted one special act to define all medical professions, and then went to law to edit certain areas, because then everyone in the beginning would know what they were being treated for, what their legal position would be, since it would function within the health system. And this turns out that after a long time we have only had one, two or three health professions defined by the law, now suddenly we have to define others because of European practice, but we do not do it in a consistent way, because European practice says that working therapy deserves the attention of special legislation, that it is treated quite differently and that they are allowed to join in special chambers. Physiotherapists who are dominant in this activity can hardly break down such criteria that will meet working therapists, because they do not know what working therapy is, they only know what the responsibility of a working therapist is when he deals with physical therapy. But didn't the ministry say he didn't want to do it in the future, so work therapy is done by working therapists and physical therapists... And physical technicians. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's a place where you don't even know what the government wants anymore, but it's known that it doesn't work well with professional associations that have concrete proposals and that's not good. It's not good because it testifies to fear... advocacy of professional associations, i.e. civil society associations, in a broader sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wish it were different. As a longtime activist of such associations, I know what social capital they bear and what benefit the entire society can have from them, including the ministry. And when I told the activist I would warn all my colleagues, including our Committee on Health and Social Care, when they write documents that there is a noun of specialists in Croatian, who tends to be a specialist,... a criminal, and in some other languages there are different forms of that word. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, a specialist is a nominal word spoken of when it comes to doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16991	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The best to agree with the last three clubs and obviously all clubs will be restrained which is essentially a difficult situation, the most difficult thing to be for, against, refrained from, neither sim nor there, is the reason this bill is unarranged, highly unlikely, the reason is to postpone and wait again, the reason is again the inactivity of the health administration unlike our brilliant physiotherapists and they have, as few of us have said 3.5 thousand. Most of my predecessors talked about physical therapy about the hospital system, so physical therapy after major trauma, after surgery, after orthopaedic procedures, after car accidents, which unfortunately happens on the weekends, because the Transport Safety Act is not respected. Most of my predecessors, therefore, talked about all these great people talking about the hospital system, and no one thanked me, so I will thank all the physiotherapists who provided great help to all our war veterans, Croatian defenders in the Homeland War, who therefore, on the front line of the battlefield, participated together with the surgeons, nurses, and later in rehab, for example, I was in Eastern Slavonia, Bizovačka spas, and I know very well what was going on in the Bizovačka spas that were then, which were then under our administration. But there's a third side of physiotherapy, there's a fifth side of physiotherapy, and it's a physiotherapy that's completely untapped for the past few years, and it's absolutely incomprehensible to me, and it's a physiotherapy and physiotherapy in l jurisprudence. Believe it or not we in Croatia have 156 locations or places of application of natural medicinal products that are classified in climatic therapy, valosotherapy and... Only in those 156 we only have 18 of them that operate in the spas, the secretary of state probably knows, but most of those 18 8 are climate therapy, 10 is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] therapy, throughout our country, therefore, Bizovačske spas, Daruvarske spas, Varazdinske spas, there is Dragica, Stubaka, Krapinske spas, Dino from Istria, Istrian spas, Istrian spas, Split spas, via Biokovka in Makarska we end up in Veli Luka and Korčula. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All over Croatia, all over Croatia, but we won't talk about old Rome now, but let's remember Austro-Hungarian and all those gentlemen came in 19. The 18th century in Selce, Opatija, Vela Luka to exploit our knowledge, not only the possibility of natural healing fortifications and at the time was excellent health tourism, excellent health tourism. Where's health tourism today? I mentioned Billić boys earlier, in particular that the other day I spoke to doctors working in football clubs all over Croatia, so I told them gentlemen you were going to Čatež, Čatež was not there 20 years ago, and there were Daruvarska, Varazdinska,... Istrian, here's the first time last year that our football team went to Rovinj this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's gone. I'm afraid it's gone again out of ignorance or holding a fig in my pocket to maybe privatize it. Because these spas do business with HZZO in part, they do business in private, we, our citizens, our taxpayers, do it in private, I'm afraid it's not done consciously. I'd rather be working out of ignorance. Austria will all, I read yesterday, the day before yesterday, 30% of our citizens are no longer going skiing this year, and I hope that's true, but their summer tourism, their spas, spas bring three times as much as winter tourism. Prague. Golden Prague, in three months because of its tourism, includes health tourism for three months, collects exactly as many billions of euros as the entire of Croatia. So Prague in three months, and we are 12 months, we bring the whole of Croatia from health care. Because there's no health tourism. We've got sea but we don't have land, and Prague is if you know on... that you know it's on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not on the Adriatic Sea and they don't count, they don't count students, I'm sorry, they don't count tourists, believe me, they don't count, how many have landed, how many have passed the highway, how many have come out, that's irrelevant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Come, we provide, not what we did 2, 3 months ago when we banned them from, just the Czech, great Czech tourists who worship Croatia and worship our seas, so we banned some regulations, that we are not going back to the past because we cannot change the past, and here so much can change, so my colleague Kurelić says the fifth, it seems to me that we're driving backwards in some things, and in reverse as you all know you can do the maximum speed of 35-40 km, so if you're doing it maximum, you can't go more than 35 km per hour, because reverse is an awkward speed. So, spas should be used, they should be provided, and the best example is across the border from Čatež, neighbouring Slavonia, Slovenia pardon, watching Slavonca, neighbouring Slovenia because it is the only way we can use our spa, our 18 health resorts and our 156 sites or places of application of natural healing factors. And that's why this law is welcome, I'm talking about the Law on Physical Activity, but not this law as it's written. That's why we're welcome to have a physical therapist's chamber because there are 3500 of them and they represent another... health profession among all health professionals, therefore, most... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it because I can work both at the hospital and at the clinical centre and at the health center and in the health care center and in private practice, and that is why it is necessary to regulate it because it has already been done by the regulated states and, as the European Union has made it very clear, and the European Union has recognised very clearly that physiotherapeutic profession is legally regulated and the name physiotherapist is reserved for those who have certain knowledge and partial work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But as the physical therapy activity is legally regulated in the European Union, it is also regulated and therapy, working, so also working therapists, as well as colleagues, and he made it very clear that unfortunately working therapists are not recognized in this law. They are given a place at the level of assistants in physiotherapy, therefore at the level of persons with secondary education and, as you well know, working therapists are educated at the university and by completing their studies they get the name of first graders. Mr. Secretary of State is aware of this and he said in an explanation that he is aware that he likes to say clearly and loudly, perhaps he can, perhaps he can't, but the volume is not an argument. The arguments are clarity, precision, precision. The volume, if the volume is an argument then it's no, it's not good because the volume usually hides other things. So I am aware that there is a major danger on the trail and that working therapists as a completely independent health association are regulated by the proposal of another profession. We are truly unique in the world. We can be a Croatian paradox again. We can be Croatia's unique, unique, unique in the world, and I hope that the secretary of state will point out and he obviously recognized it soon in the new bill. We gave him the opportunity to accept our amendments to the Club of Representatives of the SDP and several of us MPs and hope to do so. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16993	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16994	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here I wouldn't really want to repeat myself about this proposal for a physical therapy law. The grudges are similar to that of the previous law. Again, I don't think there was any need for haste or emergency procedure. It's an important profession, an activity in health care. Three thousand and five hundred people are at stake. So there are remarks like, as my predecessors have said about working therapists to the most extent, and it seems to me that there are very firm and strong arguments. But what I would like to underline even more, which is exactly, I am going back to Article 16 of this law, so it is clear to the Secretary of State, and it should also be clear to the legislator of this law that a physiotherapist cannot, in accordance with the proposal of this law, or I will not say, cannot, but should not really bring the whole procedure of physiotherapy simply on the basis of the manual. Just on the basis of the diagnosis that this is in Article 16. It happens regularly that he will get a diagnosis from a traumatologist, from a surgeon, from a neurologist, from a neurosurgeon, from an orthopaedic. I assure you that at the level of current education education education, a physiotherapist cannot adequately prescribe therapy according to all these medical professions or specializations that they have instructed him to do so on diagnosis alone. There is also a question of course additional education for all those physiotherapists who have two years of higher education who will be with them? So, following what was the remark in the Law on, when we talked about the previous law, I also think that for these people, we need to find a solution, that these people need to be provided with financial resources for their additional education in order to actually meet with this additional education the conditions of this proposal for a law on physiotherapeutic activity and which it speaks of in terms of degrees of education. I therefore propose that these proposals be adopted because I think that the proposals are indeed well-intentioned. References also to the proposal of this law. I suggest that he goes to the second reading although he is aware that this second reading will not be because he will go through a hasty procedure, but then at least here's how much in this debate we have managed to discuss this bill well at least those amendments that the MPs have proposed to accept. The HDSSB, depending on how the proposal is to be put in line with the proposed proposals, or amendments, will actually be made to adopt or oppose such a proposal for a law on physical therapy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16995	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16996	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs have already had a lot of grudges at the expense of this bill, but let's say, for me, the main reason is that unlike the previous law that we discussed, this is the Law on Reception, which is really a alignment with Directive 36-05, this law is therefore the Law on Physical Activity trying to get us through the small door. I hope it doesn't sound too ugly but it's trying to "get in" us under the excuse of adapting to EU legislation. This profession is not a regulated profession under Directive 36-05. And it doesn't have to be done in an emergency procedure. So I really don't understand why this seems especially because this is a whole new professional law. A normal law-making procedure with a broad professional would contribute to the quality of this law that we all aim at. As I've already said, there's been a lot of grudges here. Not many of my colleagues have already said so I'll just briefly list some of them. First, the law combines completely different independent professions, a different degree of education, so from masseurs of baths with a middle three-year school to a first-grader's physiotherapist. Secondly, the activity of the physiotherapist itself is highly incorrectly defined. The law itself says, quotes: “The physical therapist’s activity includes all the procedures, knowledge and skills of physical therapy.” The definition is incomplete, unclear, general and one professional law such as this must indeed contain accurate and precise activity content. Then, the third objection is that part of the law relating to the education of physiotherapy states that basic education is obtained by completing the study of physiotherapy. And that's all. Nowhere is a word about the basic education of a physical therapist, a working therapist, and a masseur – a bather. Accordingly, it remains unclear who has an obligation to register a physical therapist at the Croatian Chamber. Both fourth and last, in the description of the physical therapist’s duties, there is in fact a vague, insufficiently defined role of specialist doctor in the entire physical therapy process, and in prescribing therapy and monitoring itself, which is an extremely important and necessary thing and cannot be so easily passed over the whole thing. Because of all this above, this law, this bill is actually not good. You should be auditing yourself, you should be working on it. I hope, in addition to everything, that, with the acceptance of all these amendments that my colleagues have submitted, they will go to the meeting and that, in fact, they will accept all these corrections and amendments that I will personally and the SDP club will vote for him and support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16997	Thank you. Let's stop the debate now, and continue at 15.00 hours. It is Mr Zeljko Jovanovic's turn, so Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Continuing at 15.00. At 13,29, the time for a 10-minute hearing was up. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the session and the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Physical Activity. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u16999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, so much of what I was saying at the Primal Law, I could repeat here, with the problem being even bigger here because simply the Law on Physical Activity is trying to get us through a small door under the password of adaptation to the European Union and that this profession is not regulated by Directive 3605 and does not have to be adopted by an urgent procedure. So, again, I repeat, and if we really don't have to pass the laws by emergency procedure, why don't we take them in two readings when we're at the Primal Law and now at the Law on Physical Activity, we see how much better there is a solution that could be better after the debate and fellow MPs and professions are respected. Here, it's amazing, but the citizens are watching the Parliament, so in this break from 13 to 15 hours, I simply had my phone battery emptied and how much I was called by a doctor of physical medicine and working therapists who were unhappy with the law that was proposed, who felt that it was not good and that I would have to go to another reading to correct all the mistakes that were in it. One of the facts given in the introduction that working therapists would lose their jobs if we don't pass this law is completely incorrect because more than 90% of working therapists have also called a physiotherapist because they have completed their high-school occupation in physiotherapist. So that assumption that this is why we're passing this law doesn't stand. To bring it in for the sake of the European Commission and the European Union for adaptation is also not valid because the Croatian Parliament received a protest from the European Organisations for the Education of Labour Therapys and the activities of the working occupation practice that have expressed dissent over the way this law is adopted because it will not ensure labour mobility on the European labour market. Just to remind you that in the fifth month of this year in Hamburg, the European Labour Therapys Congress was held in Hamburg, where for the first time the representatives of Croatia became members of the association that gathers 130 thousand working therapists from 26 countries who believe that this law will not contribute to the quality of work in the Republic of Croatia regarding physical therapy activities and the work of working therapists. Therefore, I believe that this law is not good, that it should be rerouted, that this should be the first reading and that, on the basis of the profession, the remarks made in this assembly, we will pass a law that will be of quality and that will allow the physical activity to be carried out in Croatia in a way in favour of patient health. I must point out that there are two associations in Croatia, there is a Croatian Association of Physiotherapists and a Croatian choir of Croatian therapists who have a completely conflicting opinion on the bill we received today. And it is truly incomprehensible that this law tries to push doctors aside in some way because a doctor who specializes in physical medicine must be crucial in making decisions concerning physiotherapy regarding the diagnosis that a person has. So I pray that this law still goes into second reading to make it more quality than we got on the benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17000	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miranda Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17001	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, at the end of this whole discussion, to conclude our proposal with several facts. It is true that this law does not in any way regulate the procedures of working therapy or the profession of working therapists. In fact, and I brought this up on the Health Committee that the European Association has addressed the Ministry and we have explained to them that the procedure has been agreed with six associations in the Ministry of Health Activity and, among other things, with the Croatian Association of Workers, that the profession of working therapists will also be resolved, and that they are not subject to this law and that working therapists do not have the obligation to join the Chamber according to this law, they have only those within the working therapists who intend or wish to engage in physical therapy should be members, i.e. to be in front of... the chamber, because this isn't the Law on physiotherapy, it's the Law on Physical Activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So those who intend to engage in this activity would have to be under that chamber and would have to meet those standards. It is clear throughout the debate process that this is also the biggest problem that arises and the Croatian Association of Working Therapys who has been fighting for years for their situation and for the situation that the working therapy and the working therapist are being appointed as an interest because today in some systems and here and they warned me yesterday about the conversation that in the system of social care, work therapy is being done by defectologists and many others. Therefore, the fact that we have no solution to the issue of working therapy in Croatia as a profession that they have major problems and therefore there is probably also a fear that this is something that will prevent them from solving their problem through a particular profession. As I said yesterday in my meeting with them, I say here in the assembly today, I think it's good to know that in public, in no way, the adoption of the Law on Physical Activity will not affect the regulation of the profession of working therapists, nor are the physiotherapists and the seniors who are trained and in the rank of working therapists, so they are first-rates, and they are also the junior superiors in any way to working therapists. But it is true that if a working therapist conducts physical therapy, she will be carried out according to the instructions of a physical medicine specialist who prescribes it. And that's true. And the truth is that there is a situation in our society that even my private institutions run by working therapists who deal exclusively with physical therapy, means not working therapy like today was the esteemed representative quoted correctly, working therapy has no contact with the patient, physical contact, physical therapy has and there is already a limit there. Therefore, on the side of the government, the ministry's support for working therapy will be absolutely complete because we will also come out with the proposal. And that's what I told them yesterday, before this House, to adopt, to get rid of it. So we don't see any bigger problems here. On the other hand, I'm obliged to give answers. So let's say the answers to what level of schooling is where it's solved. Article 14(3), subparagraph 2. The law on academic title and professional education has already decided a year ago that all seniors, we talk about senior physiotherapists, means those who have completed less than three years of higher education, become high on the day of entry into force of this law, or get the title of first-rate. So there's no fear, and this law hasn't been read about what's going to happen to senior physiotherapists, it happened a year ago, and it's not the subject of this law. So many things we can quote here to this day, I have tried and, in accordance with the criticisms towards me tried to extract from this discussion all these items that act as an open question to say that the law is not yet laid down. And I have to say now that the law seems to me well-defined, because what's not here under the Health Protection Act is Article 141 or that's Article 52. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2006 Health Protection Act clearly states that physiotherapists can carry out private practice from their professional training on their own, but in accordance with the instructions of specialists in physical medicine and rehabilitation. Therefore, surveillance is not lost. And in the same article, they're settled for nurses, so we understand each other. Or when it's said that we're putting into the same law, forgive that expression, but maybe a little bit I speak emotionally, put in the same high-preparation law as the first-rates and medium-sized professional equipment so that it doesn't fall apart. And what did we do then in the Law of Sisterhood that is in force? We have three categories of sisters there, and we'll probably have more. Therefore, it is not a condition for someone to be organized in a certain chamber, to be just a link to being the same rank, so we told the doctors. After all, Croatia's medical chamber has multiple rankings of general medics, specialists, therefore they are different rankings. So I don't see anything personally in these proposals that should be controversial, except for certain that one address is many who have participated, and I have to say the Committee for Physical Therapy and I asked for it to be brought to me by a complete list of people who have been working on this problem since 2006. They have their representatives inside and from the Croatian Congress of Physiotherapists, from the Croatian Association of Physiotherapists, from the Croatian Association of Work Therapy and from representatives of institutions dealing with physical medicine, from the Croatian Medical Assembly and our ministry such as those who carry administrative services. And they were working on making these proposals. Therefore, we remain on the side of our proposal so that it can go into an emergency procedure, but we have not said anywhere that this is a condition. We have listed the conditions which, this is not a condition, but this is a good opportunity for one profession to regulate modernly, according to the principles of the European Union in physical therapy. And to announce, as I said in the opening statement, that we will certainly come before this House of Highs with a proposal of editing and other professions in Croatian health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17002	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17003	Mr. Secretary of State stated that in the draft of the law, consulting associations and a wide range of experts. What is known is not consulted even the Working Group on Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, which is a working group of the Ministry of Health for the area, so it would be advised that it is also consulted. In addition, neither the Rheumatology and Physiatry Society nor other professional associations have been consulted, so that this law in any case does not have the support of the profession, and the profession means fellow physicists are those who simply participate in the part of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17004	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17005	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Physical Activity. It was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No.162. Debate closed, review of the amendment is divided into benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to manifest himself. Mr. Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go. First of all, the representative of Bora Grubisic, as referred to in Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17006	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17007	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Second, Representative Bruno Kurelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17008	The amendment is not accepted because the physical therapy process is clearly determined in relation to physical medicine and rehabilitation and is not contrary to the said statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17009	Mr Bruno Kurelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17010	Secretary of State, this first part of the sentence is okay, a physiotherapist is a health worker who performs procedures. However, given the role of physiotherapist physician who diagnosed both the course and the content of the treatment procedure, I find that this second part of the sentence is not appropriate. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17011	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Third, amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17012	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17013	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Fourth, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17014	The amendment is not accepted because the physician’s statement is used precisely to determine the difference between the first-rate and the physician. If there is a need to clearly define a specialist, then it is a medical specialist doctor, not a specialist doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17015	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17016	Mr. Secretary of State in this amendment there are three paragraphs so that you would like to clarify with respect to all three items that I propose to amend, since your explanation refers only to one of the three items that I propose, since I believe that the other healthcare professionals have an exact duty relating to the prescribed treatment by the doctor. So please explain why you do not accept the other items of this article. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17017	Mr. Secretary of State, do you have an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17018	I'll give you an extra explanation. The remaining two articles are settled in Article 131. The health care bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17019	The vote was requested by the MP. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5, representing Maria Habeka in Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17020	The amendment is not accepted, as it is already defined by the Health Protection Act in Article 141 or Article 52 in the Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17021	Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17022	Secretary of State I just wanted communication between doctors to be as high-quality as possible and not to have disastrous consequences in some cases. I really don't understand what bothers you in this amendment that doctors and physiotherapists have better communication. I really don't know why you're against it. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17023	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The sixth amendment to the Treaty of legislators shall be read in accordance with Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17024	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17025	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Seventh, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic's representative on Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17026	The amendment is not accepted. According to the Health Protection Act, only a doctor can make a diagnosis and there is no need for special emphasis in this bill. Likewise, the minister does not adopt general acts but acts prescribed by law, and brings general acts to the chamber. In terms of this, the Proposer considers that the content of the physiotherapy chart as well as certain other documentation which, by its general acts, regulates other chambers can and in a quality way solve the Croatian Chamber of Physiotherapists.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17027	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17028	So I don't accept this argument, so we're going to have one absurd that we're going to have a medical records that won't make a diagnosis set up by a specialist doctor. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17029	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8th Amendment of Representative Bruno Kurelić to Article 19?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17030	The amendment is not accepted because the same problem has been solved in Article 18(1) of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17031	Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelić. Here you go. You're withdrawing the amendment? This amendment has been withdrawn. Legislative Committee, 9th Amendment to Article 24
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17032	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17033	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Ten. Article 26 of the Legislative Committee
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17034	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17035	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 11. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17036	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17037	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 12. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17038	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17039	It becomes an integral part of the bill. And 13. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17040	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17041	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. I therefore vote, the Final Proposal for a Law on Physical Activity. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the law has been passed by 79 votes to four against and 27 abstentions with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17042	Let's go to the following - Final proposal of the Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section, emergency procedure Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia was held by the Committees on Lawmaking; local and regional self-government; agriculture, fisheries and rural development; the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. And MP Zvonimir Mršić, State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office Antun Palaric will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17043	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that this esteemed House adopt the Law on Government Powers to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's part-round during the period until the Croatian Parliament is in session, from 15 December 2008 to 15 January 2009 and from 15 July 2009 to 15 September 2009. Also, caution is being exercised, the Government is also proposing that in the event of a possible disbandment of the Parliament in the following year, the Government's authority to regulate the rules on issues that can be transferred to the Government by a legislative delegation, so all those issues other than the establishment of the state government, local self-government, the adoption of the state budget and its amendments, therefore all that cannot be delegated to the Government. We propose that, by way of effect of this law, the regulations with the legal force adopted by the Government, with the exception of the Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, which would cease to apply to the effect of this law, as the Government has proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade, which is consummated by this Regulation. As it is a small law which is of the need for the smooth functioning of the state order, we ask the Parliament to accept it as the final draft of the law. Two amendments have been submitted to this law, one Committee on the Constitution, one Rules of Procedure and a political system that we accept with gratitude. The second amendment is the amendment of Mrsic's representative, we cannot accept him for the reason that the representative of course could not have known, but we know and now it is clear to everyone that the Government has proposed the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act. Therefore, there is no reason to accept this and thus the validity of the Regulation amending the Law on Trade extends until the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17044	Thank you. The committees. Legislative? Local and regional self-government? Agriculture, fishing and rural development? For the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? And the Justice Committee? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports, therefore, the proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, but also the opinion that the legal power to adopt a regulation should continue to be shared on the basis of legal powers, but limited as so far. So only during the period when the Croatian Parliament does not regularly meet and for the period when the Croatian Parliament is eventually disbanded or its term of office expires. Let me intro, however, point out two key things when we're on this subject, and we're actually on regulations based on legal powers. In fact, whenever we are discussing a legislative delegation in regulations on the basis of legal powers, we are actually talking about a constitutional and legal institute, a disturbance of jurisdiction between the legislative body and the executive authority, so between Parliament and the government, but it is always important to stress that this disorder is taking place on the basis of the powers of the legislator himself, so Parliament itself. Secondly, constitutional and legal provisions of the legislative delegation are part of the practice and way of working in all modern countries, and so are we, and it takes place, in relation to those issues which are listed as such and are found, therefore, in constitutional provisions. It is always a matter of a kind of injurement of the executive authority in the jurisdiction of the legislative authority, of course, exclusively or in the case of regulations for the application or enforcement of laws in accordance with the logic of matters, those Regulations are related to a specific law whose application in practice is made possible. As far as the concrete law itself is concerned, this law empowers the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the issues of the current economic policy in the part of the Croatian Parliament, but not all issues. Therefore, the issue of amending the state budget, tax regulation issues and, of course, all those issues that are excluded by the express provision of the Constitution, i.e. Article 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which refers to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of state bodies and bodies of units of local self-government. It should also be pointed out that regulations under the legal authority cannot act backwards unless the Assembly otherwise cannot act backwards, however, if the Parliament decides otherwise, they shall cease to be in force within a period of one year from the date of the power obtained. Accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, I stress this once again, supports this bill, so the proposal for a law of power to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17046	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17047	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Here is the proposal for a law on the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. In his explanation, he literally says that, under the applicable Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the following regulations and that regulation supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges, other judicial officials, the "National Journal" No. 134/07. Then the Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on State Support for Education, the Regulation amending the Law on State Support in Agriculture, also published in the "National Journal" 1134 of 2007 and the Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, the "National Journal" No. 96/2008, from 21 August 2008. I will focus exclusively on this regulation with the legal force which tangs the Law on Trade, more precisely as it is known it is the suspension of a "unreasonable" norm which defended trade after 21 hours. I also think it's absurd to defend trade and work on Sundays. One part of that absurd, meaning the ban on working after 21 hours in the season, this regulation that's being removed today. Unfortunately, it remains to be seen what will happen to the work, the ban on working Sunday, but we will discuss it more when the law comes on the agenda. The clear question arises whether, say, what do I know about the ban on working on Sundays is harming large systems? I'm saying that doesn't hurt them, given that only five large trade chains are currently holding 54% of the so-called. small shops. If we're talking about 10 first-class trade chains, so they're holding as much as 74% of the retail, and if we're talking about 15 of the first big chains, that's where we get up to 80%. So thousands and thousands of others are fighting for these remaining 15% or 20%, and that is exactly how such a provision damages the small, and not the large, one needs to be specifically considered and how this law in that part should be reviewed. If we keep in mind that in 2010 the ban will stop, it is always this marketing competition agency that assumes 1200 "Print" kiosks in retail mixed goods, it will "Conzum" which today has 600 stores make them even stronger, while all the other small traders, I dare say fight for 10% of market participation and no matter how much it should not be stalled, it should not be restricted, it does not need to be extended to some legal norms because they generally fight for naked survival. Unfortunately, this struggle is not recognized primarily by union leaders who, in any case, are in the position of that small merchant, I am deeply convinced that they would also fight for an hour's work more, not for an hour's work less. I can also say more times about this speaker that even the position of these small merchants, craftsmen, is more difficult than the workers who work with them. They first match their entire assets, these others and respond exclusively to their work. We can also say that the five largest trade chains mentioned in 2007 in the retail trade have reached 19 billion kunas, that's 54%, and these youngsters have achieved maybe 5-6 billion kunas, and so I say once again, they don't need to be chicanated, restricting their time of work, especially during the season. What is particularly interesting to me, one consequence of such an absurd law which, fortunately at one point in time, was put forward by the Government regulation ad act to consider that the product of this law is de facto these great traders. So the product of this law in my court is these big chains. They're the ones who can sit down, who can make a deal. They usually do that, they sit down, they agree on what the prices will be. They don't care if it affects any inflation or not. Through such a policy practice, I would almost say that they can destroy any government, they can pull people out into the street, they can affect election results, policy of incentives, etc. etc. What's the big deal is, someone's been handing over an existing law on trade, doing it this summer. I claim that's exactly what they sat down and agreed to, knowingly spurred inflation. They were aware that on the Adriatic, with a million inhabitants of those domicillins from Istrians through the coasters, the Dalmatians, etc. At any moment another 2 million tourists from some third countries or the Republic of Croatia were mostly foreigners, and they simply agreed let's take these people's money and that was the basic reason why these prices in the 7th, 8th month were savaged as they were savage. The question of maybe next season, not so much in hotels, but in the private sector in the out-of-board, they just don't care, and now we see that team isn't just enough money anymore. Now they want power. One Kerum wants to be not know the mayor of Split, Kukurin Mayor of Istria County, Todorovic someone is speculating the president of the state, and if it's necessary to install what I know and the Prime Minister even though I don't know this team may have been in power there in the 1990s somehow created these very tycoons. The media have, have both physical or via the purchase of journalists, i.e. advertising space. I can control everyone clearly, you can't count on unions anyway, and that's what our fight gave us. That is the meaning of this Croatian reality. It's a reality, unfortunately, it looks elsewhere in the world, but it looks nowhere like us, because 1% of the businessmen hold 75% of the Croatian economy, 4% left, 13% left, and all the other 95% still at 13%. So the role of politics is to see it, the union to recognize it, the media to talk about it, I don't know the citizens following what's going on, and the churches not to spray it with holy water. As regards the very proposal for a law on the power of the regulation, it is absolutely logical, however, it is good that before or that the benches will be reached and this law on trade that needs to be changed as soon as possible not only in that part of the work after 21 hours but also in terms of working on Sundays in a way that anyone who wants to work, because why on 2 million tourists who are at that point on the Adriatic coast would earn de facto only 15 large chains. And finally, in my opinion, one standard can't apply to the caterers, the other to the merchants, and the union and the church, etc. This should not be prevented in particular if we bear in mind that they, meaning those beats, also work in one Slovenia, and in Italy, in the season in Greece, Spain, no one should do harm to anyone. All in all, the IDS Club is behind this law, it is clear that there are times when the Government must intervene with its regulations when Parliament is not sitting except when these financial documents are adopted, but we will see clearly that is what I am far more interested in, in which direction the trade law will be discussed and whether some of the illogicalities that we have warned of will change in due course.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17048	Thank you. A few corrections. First Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17049	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I can't help but correct some incredible allegations that are incorrect. Says this team in power was creating tycoons. This team in power didn't create tycoons, Mr. Representative. The tycoons were created by others. This team in power was building a state. Speaking of tycoons, that's what our fight gave us. No, our fight gave us democracy, free, independent Croatia, freed her, introduced her into the United Nations, the Council of Europe and everything else, and now she's going to Europe. And what your struggle has given you, think about it. And in the end, she says in a negative context, and it's all sprayed by the church. The church in Croatia advocates moral principles, advocates family, equality, love and all that is positive, so it is a pity that it has not sprayed you with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17050	Second Amendment, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17051	Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the wrong allegation of a respected representative who said that several of them agreed to raise prices in the course of the season, so for several million kunas or euros, as mentioned,... Additional money, I think, is such a free interpretation at the edge of science fiction, it seems unfortunately that the first half of this year has been linked exclusively to inflationary movements related to energy prices, raw materials. [[You don't understand.]] Iolam's more serious economist knows that most of it has been influenced by the increase in energy prices and so on, and then this government, by measures and by the influence on the businessmen, has influenced the fact that, within the new system of things, oil is usually being reduced and oil prices are being reduced and food energy prices are being reduced, so I think I should know that, so I'm taking the opportunity to correct it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17052	HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17053	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. In the beginning, I will say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support the proposal of the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, with the final proposal of the law, for the reason that in all orderly and democratic states, situations would be prevented in which, because of the absence of Parliament's meeting for this or that reason or because of its disbandment of extraordinary or regular elections, would practically prevent the state from operating through the adoption of legislation. This is not the first time this law has been passed every year, it allows the government to react to situations in that interregnum between the two sessions and to react as responsibly as possible. This law also defines which issues can be regulated by legal regulations, but what we want to warn about is the practice of abuse of this law. My colleagues have already mentioned that the most radical example of the abuse of this power is the circus that was made by the adoption of a provision amending the Law on Trade. There is no law that would be said to be ideal, nor is the Law on Trade, but unlike other laws amending such a regulation, the Law on Trade was adopted only a month before the adoption of this Regulation. The law on trade was the subject of a months-long public debate in Croatia. It wasn't just a matter of whether to work on Sundays and holidays, but how long to work in which areas and under what conditions. So for months we've been trying to prove that an equation that applies to everyone equally doesn't make sense, nor that it's logical, that in the Republic of Croatia there are zones that are of particular tourist importance, that the tourist season in different parts of the country takes a long time to adjust the rules. In all possible ways, the ruling majority in Parliament has been involved to prove to us that this simply is not so and that it is necessary to limit the work of trade to nine hours. All right, you hold that these are the quality arguments that you gave us in the debates, we had to accept them and follow them, but on August 21st, the government at a telephone session, so the ministers from the yacht report their consent to emigrate the Croatian Parliament and to practically one month after the debate that was led here bring something completely different from what was concluded here. So what do we do now? So who did the government actually turn their back on? You colleagues from the ruling majority, who probably by the direction of that very government, have asked the explicits to remain this limit, and not to those of us who have been telling us that this thing should be liberalised and left to local self-government units, who will best, on local occasions, assess whether it is indeed nine hours. Such a way of playing and mocking the Croatian Assembly is unfortunately not lonely. A few days ago, the prime minister laughed at us all in the face, saying that the lady I will not mention here by her name was not his moral vertical, but the moral vertical of the Croatian Parliament. We will have such cases in the future more and more as things stand, but we will not stop warning that there can be no government over the Croatian Parliament, the government must not act by disabling and mocking the work of this Parliament. And a month after she convinced us of the tree and the stone swearing that what she suggested was good, it also changed that at the telephone session on August 21st. It's a practice we warn of as unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17054	Thank you. SDP club Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17055	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's power to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section of the Croatian Parliament has been given great powers, but many of them by the Croatian Parliament as an authorised representative of the people as the supreme body of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia. Since the Croatian Parliament, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, holds its meetings between 15 January and 15 July, and between 15 September and 15 December, it is necessary to have the authority of another state body to adopt, during the period between these meetings, rules in the field of current economic policy which are otherwise in the Parliament's section and we see nothing disputed. However, if this delegated power of regulation, i.e. a regulation with legal power, is consumed irresponsiblely, recklessly and with harmful consequences under the Republic of Croatia, then the matter is slightly different. And the recent past has shown that we have exactly that situation. I'm going to give that example that's already been mentioned here, and that's the Law on Trade. During the summer break in the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, the Government is in a hurry at a famous phone session for which there is not even any legal basis adopted by a regulation that puts out force the provisions of the Trade Act which regulated that this working time trade must end by 21,00 hours at the latest. If we let aside the fact that the proposer of this same law was the same Government of the Republic of Croatia and the fact that the SDP pointed to the illogical nature of the provision that they had to close their doors at 21,00 hours at the time of the adoption of the law, yet the ruling majority in the Parliament then rejected all SDP remarks and accepted the government's proposal. So that when the tourist season began and thousands of terrified tourists began to close the doors of the public and media store, the government in an emergency procedure at a telephone session, its own legal solution, which had been passed before, was abolished by a regulation. You see, dear colleagues and colleagues, we are against such a way of working and against such a decision. We are equally opposed to decisions being made without public presence. I must mention that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been warned even by NGOs such as GONG and Transparency International, that it has a practice that does not exist in other countries of developed democracy to make decisions wrapped up in secret at its closed sessions, although there is no need or justification for that. It's not about any state or military secret, it's simply about a arrogant and arrogant government that doesn't care about the citizens of its own country. Croatian public, so Croatian citizens will never know what happened at closed sessions, which were passed, to whom the money from the state budget was allocated, there is no information about it, about which the government is silent, it is secreting itself from the citizens, even as much as it loses certain court proceedings due to violations of the law on the right to information. There we are, and neither will we be for this kind of behavior. We are for a government that will act openly, democratically and transparently and that is not Mr. Sanader's government. But let's just go back to the bill, and that's what we'd like to say. Article 4 The Government proposes that all the regulations it has adopted on this basis cease to apply on 31 December other than the Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, so that the same Regulation adopted on the date of entry into force of this law is just before that. The question arises what this government wants, first passed the law, and then it sees that it has passed a bad law, and then it adopts a regulation that repeals the provisions of that law, and then proposes a law that would renegotiate that regulation. This is just one example that proves that we were right when we did not trust the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this meeting and why we do not have confidence in this trust and the ability and competence of the Government of Mr. Sanader today. The conclusion is clear. The government is wandering, it's not working, and it has no idea. In other words, she's incompetent for the work she's doing. With such behaviour, the government mocks the parliament as an institution of the Croatian state, and parliamentary MPs turn parliamentary majority into a voting machine. And even those who are responsible for managing their units of local self-government in the ruling majority of the mayors are in places that were directly touched in that case, they voted neatly for the law and then returned to their seats and told me unfortunately we have nothing to do with it. Or they were looking for ways to change exactly what they had brought before that in this same assembly. On the other hand, we would be reminded in the SDP and all others to remind ourselves of the situation that the Government in the pre-election period ahead of the end of 2007, i.e. before the parliamentary elections itself, when Parliament was disbanded again at its secret and closed sessions, made decisions on the allocation of millions of amounts from the budget stock, i.e. to certain institutions whose assistance HDZ counted in the election campaign. Therefore, there are too many reasons for mistrust against the government led by Ivo Sanader. It is not European behaviour, it is not democratic behaviour and it is not behaviour that is in the interest and for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In principle, the SDP club supports the adoption of a law that would address the issue of the adoption of rules regarding certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's part-round during the period when the Croatian Parliament does not meet. And that's the need. But on the other hand, I have serious doubts that the Government of Ivo Sanader deserves to be the bearer of the responsibility that the Croatian Parliament, as the supreme representative body and the highest body of the legislative authority, would have missed by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17056	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17057	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Dragovan, said the government is arrogant and does not take care of its citizens, which does not clearly match the truth. The government takes care of its citizens clearly, runs a policy of even development, as the citizens confirmed in the November 2007 elections. Your policy, which constantly promotes the scenario, does not come across support as can be seen and this is evident from the politics of the Croatian Democratic Community and the politics of Dr. Eve Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17058	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17059	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, state secretary, ministers with an associate. When we talk about this law, the basic thing that is defined by this law is that there is one space which, at the time of the meeting, means that the need for the Croatian government to regulate certain issues in the part-round work of the Croatian Parliament and there should be nothing disputed. It is as some speakers have already pointed out before me, one great responsibility that this High House gives to the Croatian government. The Croatian Government should also be very careful to deal with any regulation and in what situations of the regulation we are applying. So when we talk about supporting this law, I believe that all MPs will give support, but on the other hand, we must point out that today in Croatia, the Croatian Government is using such powers as was given by the Croatian Parliament in inappropriate ways. By adopting the law, it means when we look at the four regulations mentioned here and on the basis of which the Government has adopted regulations in the past somewhat less than a year today, we see the Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on Trade which is still in force and which results from, in my opinion, the adoption of a law which has shown itself inconclusive, which the opposition warned during the adoption of the law and which it has made many amendments. But in this situation, when we pass such a law that this House of the High and which is beginning to apply, what is the message that the Government in seven or two weeks means in one very short, what is the message that it is changing one phone session? This is, in my opinion, a message that goes towards the Croatian Parliament on some principle, as if the Government and changes the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, or as if it shows that there is no parliamentary system in Croatia, but that the government is above Parliament. In my view, in this law, it should, and I think it is a minimum to say that the Government must not make such decisions at telephone and closed sessions. If we, gentlemen and colleagues and colleagues, adopt laws in front of the Croatian public, this session can be seen specifically by any Croatian citizen who has at home the Internet, who can watch television on the Internet. Which is why the Croatian government can afford the situation to make decisions with the legal power of the mobile and closed sessions. I find that inadmissible. I feel like a representative in the Croatian Parliament in some way humiliated. What we've been discussing here for months, we've been proposing amendments and bearing the vote of our voters. In one day, the government can change the phone session within these two or three months as if we were doing nothing after all. And that is why I think it is not the spirit of this law and that it is not the spirit of this law that the Government can thus change the decisions of the Croatian Parliament and that we should, as a minimum, install an amendment or provision that such decisions with legal force should not be taken by phone sessions, as a colleague said, from a yacht, from a beach etc. This is about very serious topics and should be adopted in a regulated manner. That is why I will also propose an amendment in which it would be defined that it cannot be brought to telephone sessions or at sessions closed by the eyes of the public. Since our work here in Parliament is not, I do not see why such legal powers could be brought to closed sessions by the government. I will not talk much, there will probably be opportunities when we talk about the Law on Trade, in an inadmissible way of passing laws and government, or applying these laws in Croatia, where our work of Parliament is in some way devoid and where the prime minister in a week can change what we have proposed in the way he thinks it is appropriate. It is a simple message that we as a Parliament must not allow and we must send a message to the Croatian public as well as to the Government to pass the laws in this country. So, although I am saying that I will support this law, I would be much happier if the Croatian Government had a little more responsibility to use the powers given by the objective constitutional circumstances of Parliament and if, not as easily as it has passed, by applying this law to a regulation relating to the Law on Trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17060	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17061	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honourable government representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. A normal and normal institution in Parliament has been questioned because of the practical behaviour of the Croatian government. Therefore, it is perfectly normal and the Constitution allows the Croatian government, as an exception, to regulate certain issues differently when it is necessary by means of a set of circumstances, from how the Parliament has arranged. What's the government doing? The government even says in formal terms I have more power than the Parliament so it calls its regulation a regulation amending the law. The government rather than saying that the Regulation governing trade and working time relations is over and the law remains in the parliament's area. She says to herself, I take the role of Parliament and I make the regulation. Imagine what kind of legal defamation it is, the legal defamation that the regulation changes the law. It has no authority from either the Parliament or the Constitution. So, let the government keep it in order to settle a matter with a regulation, and let it leave our right and obligation to regulate things by law. Another problem is when the government uses it and why it uses it. If we were a legal state and if we were to guard our institutions then for the damage that, if the Parliament had not made a good decision, we should sue the Assembly of Citizens or Entrepreneurs who had suffered legal illogicalism, which turns out to be a illogical one that was only 30 days before and by a dictatorship, I must say, by the dictatorship, a democratic dictatorship of the majority rather than by the thinking and representation of the citizens. Therefore, citizens should sue for the irresponsibility of MPs in the Assembly in the adoption of the Law on the Work of Trade. We have done damage to them, but not only to merchants and shops, but we have also denied the pleasure of many of our guests. We have denied pleasure, we have denied and profited many of our people. And what are the consequences of trust in the institution of the Parliament? So, on a proposal from the government, from 30 days to the insistence of the parliamentary majority, following the decision of the commander of the battleship, this Parliament passed the Law on Trade. And less than 30 days is one person, urbi et orbi, says change the law. Change the law, set me up. Instead of saying, I'll do different work hours and I'm responsible for it. As Prime Minister, I ask the government to meet. So, derrogation, derrogation of a state-run institution that is the highest ranking. The highest rank. So, it's good, sometimes it's good to listen to the captain of a battleship, but not when it comes to citizens' interests, when the law is passed. That's what we need to figure out. And there's something else I want to say. Here it is proposed to extend the validity of three regulations and that we give them a binco. Does anyone here have regulations that we extend the period of validity? No, there's no one. And even more absurd that we by law extend the validity of the regulations, it's a real nonsensus again. So we interfere through the very name of the act that we can bring, we interfere with jurisdiction. So the Parliament will now pass the Act on the extension of the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And where does the Parliament's jurisdiction come from, and where does the Government? Let's figure it out once, and it should be in a law like this. So today we will raise our hands for an extension of the validity of three regulations that we have never even seen, which we have not even discussed. We'll give Bianca confidence to the government that these regulations work as long as this law works. So, the regulation, by the logic of the law, ends with the expiry date of the law that we gave to the government or for a year at the most. If it was passed today, it's worth a year because the law is worth a year. So we must fight here for the position of MPs, or that the position of the Parliament is to pass laws, and if someone has needs or reasons to regulate relations that fall within the parliament's parliament's authority, then let him pass the regulation and let him not change the law. And for that regulation, let him answer both materially and morally and politically. And political. So for this situation, it's best to say and there's no better than democracy theorists have already said, it's that power and law is one, two sides of one and the same medal of the rule of law. And the power of the state thus creates the right, only it has the right to do so, but only the right can limit the legal, power of the state. And it's becoming legal, this legal state. That's right. We here have to say so by the executive authority that derogates the legislative authority. It shows power over power. And not just that. He's not responsible for that. He's not responsible for that. If, if the Parliament is responsible for the moral vertical, then surely the Parliament is responsible for the law-making process because it is his only task. Or one of two assignments. And we allow myself to say irresponsible behavior so that citizens and entrepreneurs are legally obliged to do business during the tourist season, neither do I, until 21 hours without thinking whether it will cause consequences because if we are obedient then that's how we do it. And then the individual remembers and says, "No, you did it wrong. I will change that." Such a position simply does not create a reputation for parliament or create a rule of law, so I cannot say that it is, that it is necessary to take away the right of the Government to regulate regulations, but it should only be limited to that part of it as far as it has the right. If she's going to make a regulation not to touch our law, she's setting the question herself, and she's answering for it herself, and we're going to control it every time. This is our job and our obligation to the citizens and to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So the law is yes, but practice is illegal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17062	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17063	Thank you. When the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia changed, we then said that we were doing it to end the hyperpresidential system which was actually a semi-presidential system that functioned as a hyperpresidential system and to introduce full parliamentaryism, parliamentaryism in Croatia. It seems to me that by adopting such a law on government powers, we are causing imbalances in relations between the legislative and executive authorities, and in this way we are actually questioning the functioning of parliamentaryism in Croatia. What my colleague Leko was saying, I agree with this if we adopt a regulation that says in its own name that it has the intention to change the laws itself, we have acknowledged that the executive power is being placed above the legislative authority and it seems to me that, on a small door, talking about seemingly everyday and, in some and non-essential matters, changing huge things in Croatia and that, in fact, other than the style of governance that reminds us of the office system or system of enlightened absolutes, we are trying to be gentle, and in legislative practice, we are trying to lead to this Parliament not being a place where laws are passed but are ships, sailboats or that power is incarnated in one man. I think we should raise our voice against it all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17064	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Jurovic is responsible for the proposal everywhere in the democratic world. And there is a responsibility for the proposal. That's what the State Administration Act specifically says. For a proposal to the Government, the State Administration or an adviser shall be responsible for the expertise. And the government is responsible for the political decision. That's right for Parliament. The government is responsible for both the proposal and the political dimension and the legal dimension. That actually happened in this case. With the signing of the prime minister, the law came to the Croatian Parliament and we brought it in as requested by the government. And then the prime minister asks for it to change in 20 days. When was the Prime Minister's proposal serious? That's what I want to know. Or when the law came or when he asked for an amendment to that law through... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Would it be very important for the citizens when he was a serious prime minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17066	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17067	Mr. Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At almost the end of each year, we are in Parliament discussing the proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. And that is not at all controversial because such a law is based on an article in our 87th Constitution that says that the Assembly can transfer certain powers to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in time of one year. That certain issues are regulated by the regulations, but they are limited by a way of saying that these cannot be issues relating to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral legislation, organisation and the work of state bodies and local self-government. It is said that such a regulation cannot act backwards and is said to have a time when the government can have such authority. But when we go to watch how the text of this bill itself was dealt with, then it differs from the proposals that we discussed in earlier times, and I will try to evaluate each article in some way. Article 1. I say it is based on the constitutional provision that the Government in periods when the Assembly cannot take such decisions and this second, this part relating to only the period when the Government may do so is not disputed. However, the very text of Article 1 states that the Government will have the authority to regulate certain issues of current economic policy from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, except for changes in the state budget, tax policy, etc. Let's try to analyze what's going on with the state budget. The amendments to the laws and additions of the Law on the implementation of the state budget have already established that each year we give power to the Government so that it can redistribute almost 2/3 of the state budget itself. I object from year to year. Of course, the parliamentary majority gives such power to the government. So it's not true that the government can't change the state budget. It has the Law on the implementation of the national budget for a year. In Article 2, this is kind of automatically attributed. The government is said to be able to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section by the first session of the newly elected Parliament during the period from the date of disband or the end of the parliament's term of office. It is obvious that there will be no end of the Croatian Parliament's term of office in the next year, so there is no need to write it. All that needs to be left is the possible disbanding of the Croatian Parliament, because its mandate is only at the beginning. So there is more than a year until the term of office of the Croatian Parliament expires. It is okay to Article 3 which states that the Government must submit a report on the regulations it has adopted in the first session. However, Article 4 is totally unacceptable. Why do I say that? Because it is obvious that at one point the government has misused the powers it has received under such a law and now seeks to see the entry of Article 4 into this law in a way that makes it more difficult for it to do so. Because it says that the regulations that are in force will continue to work. This is unnecessary, as the law says, and so far the law says that regulations are going on, they have a period of one year and there are two other regulations that are in force until 31 December 2007. So we discussed them last year when they were brought in. It is disputed that this law abolishes the regulation relating to the Law on Trade in part of that law relating to the working time of the store and therefore it is questionable and therefore I say that there has been abuse. Let's just remember in the first reading, the government suggested that trades could run until 10:00 p.m. We had also observed that given the tourist season that it may be too early in those places to start trading at 6 pm and close at 22 hours, but they would probably move the start of work later. But it would be good if I could move the end of the work to later. However, after such remarks, the Government has now come to us in a second reading with a suggestion that trade can work until 21:00. So one hour shorter than she suggested in her first reading. And on repeated remarks why trade is regulated in this way, in fact, we from the opposition had at all not to regulate trade law at all, because everyone else's working hours are regulated by the Labour Act and they are later autonomous in determining their daily and weekly working hours. However, under pressure when the law came into force, when it began to apply, there were several colleagues who had already said how it had changed. He hasn't been in force for 20 days, and that's why we think there's one such criticism to be made, saying that since our Constitution allows for a certain period of time during the year, the government can pass regulations but that it must not abuse such power from Parliament. So let me say, the law is based on one section of constitutional authority. However, in the second part of this law, it actually wants to legalize something that the government has misused, and I don't think I will personally vote for such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17068	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17069	Zgrebec, a colleague, used the word abuse by the government when it comes to the powers of the Government of the Republic regarding regulations. As difficult as that is, I would say that it is even more devastating that the Prime Minister, when he became aware that a failure to adopt the Law on Trade and Working Time had not been made clear that he had assessed that a failure had been made, that it was not so necessary to regulate or vice versa that we did not take enough time to explain it in public and in my opinion he was there and he could change that law but he had to admit the mistake. No, I don't. The president of the Croatian government went to change the law with a regulation and made it very clear that it was a failure of the Croatian Parliament. In his statements, the Croatian prime minister said this is the domain of decision making and the wrong decision of the Croatian Parliament. It's a tragedy. It is a tragedy that the Croatian Prime Minister is trying to award the Croatian Parliament a pack, to blame it for something I know very well that he is responsible because the government misjudged by making a proposal for this law. And that is something that we especially need to worry about, which is that degree of tolerance and the relationship between Parliament and the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17070	Replication response, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17071	A colleague of Linic's, so it is too much to expect the Prime Minister to say that he did not make a good assessment and that he was guilty of something, or that he made the wrong decision. Our Prime Minister is reporting as a lifeguard. It is the Croatian Parliament's fault, some ministers are guilty, and then he corrects the "guilty drine" by thinking he's picking up political points.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17072	Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17073	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By listening to these discussions, which have generally started with a sentence, we support the proposal of this law, and this law is called the Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Now the question is why and which government is then supported by the law, does this mean that powers that are not outside the scope of this law are supported in all parliaments, so you either support them or because the government is given power to our coalition president, Ivo Sanader, or you dispute the right to have this government run by the very law that you support. So, with all the theoretical hints, we could say whether it's a law that we will selectively apply when you want it or it's the power of the government that is committed and which is always applied, in this case, when it comes to the measures of the current economic policy. Is this outside the scope of the power we're giving the law? It's not the former law, it's not the future law. It is not a disputed authority, it is not a disputed decision, and it is problematicd and it is adopted and supported again by the law that gives and in the future the same power. It is not true that it is unnecessary to adopt and support the validity of existing regulations. It is necessary because otherwise they would cease to be valid since the law on the basis of which they passed it on 3 October last year. Therefore, 12 months of application ceases to be valid. That's why I think the power it gets under this law can, of course, be used by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17074	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17075	Personally, I'm not going to vote for this bill because it's unacceptable for me to be insulted by the Prime Minister. There are too many public stories about Croatian MPs anyway, and I believe that through the Law on Trade, the President has particularly offended me. He said I was responsible and all of you here for passing that law that he had to change at a secret session. Therefore, we are talking about giving and giving the government the opportunity to regulate certain issues, but none of us are entitled to and do not have the right to take offense to parliamentary representatives, to insult this home and to talk about it, and we will always differ. The Prime Minister didn't say we were wrong. The Prime Minister said it was the wrong decision of the Croatian Parliament to do so, it is a humiliating relationship between the government and the parliament. And that is why it is questionable whether to give such authority to the Prime Minister and the Government when they cannot behave because it is no problem to make mistakes and once Prime Minister Sanader has admitted a mistake, this is no longer the case. It's all our fault today. And that's something we need to talk about. When we speak of such powers, there is no authority to insult this House and we must not allow such insults.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17076	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17077	I repeat that the powers of the current economic policy are legitimate under the Constitution and under the law of this which we are now accepting powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17078	Second replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17079	Col. Ivkovic, here, if we talk about the current state of affairs, one was about the sea on which the ship was on which the phone was decided to change the law. About the current policy so much. But colleague Ivkovic, I'm surprised you concluded that we support this law. No, I don't. The SDP will vote against him. So, you misread what you would say to me in Split. It cannot remain in this law Article 4 where certain regulations are said to remain and some do not remain, and at least one can remain a practice in which one takes his own right, so he and the Prime Minister were to put himself above Parliament, above the supreme legislative body de facto representing the sovereignty of the citizens of Croatia and of this people. This is what we are noticing, what we see and what we think is thus jeopardizing the dignity of the parliamentary system in Croatia, destroying the balance, so the relationship between the executive and the legislative authority in this country where the executive authority is decorated in one person, and then puts it above the legislative authority in the government, above all of us here, because this is how it was done in amending the Law on Trade has shown in the most transparent way that this is not done in parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17080	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkov.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17081	All your predecessors used to say in the opening statements that they would support this law. Everyone said and of course they didn't say, it would turn out if all parliaments had such a law and gave power to the government, which is why you wouldn't give it. Unfortunately, you cannot support your government, you must give this law power to our government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17082	Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17083	... First of all, I will say that I will vote in favour of this bill for one fundamental reason, which is based on Article 87. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, from which it originates, clearly states that the Croatian Parliament can authorise the Government to adopt regulations and in the cases indicated, meanings which cannot be transmitted in this way. And the other thing comes from the executive government and I understand that at a time when the Parliament does not have to have one such authority, especially in the segment of the current economic policy, it means regulation of these measures. But I would certainly be right if these misunderstandings were to be complemented by Article 1 and it says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can regulate current economic policy issues through regulations. I should have pointed out in which cases, that it was certain unpredictable events, market disturbances and so on because what happened to us was what my colleagues before me spoke about the Law on Trade, i.e. only working time trade despite proposals and the Committee on Tourism and the Ministry of Tourism itself and the parts of the representatives who are members of the Committee on Tourism and the proposed amendments. The government has disobeyed the rational proposals of all of us that what has already been said after 15 days of the application of the law, the Government would change and adjust the working time by the same regulation, what we said, especially in those parts, to the tourist parts of the Republic of Croatia, so it would adjust in a way that it was extended to 24 hours. And in that sense, I think it would be good to define, more precisely, Article 1 of the law itself, whether these are certain unpredictable circumstances and extraordinary events, market disturbances, economic disturbances in which the government can normally intervene. And also what is in the Constitution itself means that the regulations adopted on the basis of legal powers shall cease to apply within a period of one year unless the Assembly has decided otherwise. I would suggest that this Parliament determines that the regulations remain in force for a maximum period of three months from the first session of the Assembly, i.e. after the regulation has been adopted precisely for the reason that these Regulations can be replaced by amendments and amendments to the law, i.e. if it is necessary to adopt a new law. Here I think it would be much more quality to change in this way the proposal for a Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which we can absolutely support in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17084	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17085	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I see here today's discussion, yours, our government. They would support your government, support our government. These Regulations were also in 2000. The same way things were dealt with when the Parliament did not sit at the time of the coalition government. I well remember a regulation prohibiting the transfer of one liter of oil and a pack of cigarettes made by Mr. Mato Churchenac 6-7 years ago, and the second day immediately that decision was made. You, Mr. Leko, remember the same thing. Well, we couldn't go to the Bosnian ship because it was a ban, right? The other day, it was immediately done. So there are decisions that have been made, and I'd say a little bit of illogical, inadmissible. I, as a citizen at the time, not as a parliamentary representative, actually looked at it and laughed. He really laughed at decisions like that. The violation of the Parliament's decision only a month after, that is, the law that the Parliament made on the proposal of the same government whose prime minister telephoned that decision is really funny. They say underestimation, so it's not underestimation. Whose underestimation is that? The Parliament. The MPs of Parliament. The destruction of dignity. So those who speak to our government, they have passed that law, their hands, their hands are derivated after a month by the decision of their prime minister, I don't say. But also the prime minister when he talks about the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the decisions, if you've noticed well, always said my government. When did the Croatian Government say gentlemen? My government decided it, my government, my government that. So wait a minute, that's my government, too, to understand, that's the Croatian government, not my government. And speaking of regulations, I also proposed a shortened vacation of this high home before it was disbanded, not disbanded, but the annual vacation of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps a two-month break in the work of the Parliament would reduce some of the things that could happen by making some of the regulations spoken by my colleague Zgrebec to say about what is going on, and that is the possibility of abuse, so that time period and distribution to say money and incur funds. What is the limit of the regulation, as far as the regulations are concerned. The gentleman here to me from IDS has made very good suggestions. Very good, peaceable and very objective, very much too much. And it is clear that this decision, which is the law that speaks about the year of the regulation, and the Assembly has already held three or four sessions in that time. So which way is that? What's the point of that? If the Parliament is to meet for a month, two after the regulation, then a session of the Assembly is to be convened, then the Parliament should discuss the regulation. Or let's do as his colleague suggested, three months after the regulation was passed that the Parliament would find time to discuss the regulation. The man and the donkeys are smarter than the man himself, says the Dalmatian proverb. So I guess there's 153 of us here, too, we know something. There's something we know to say about the regulation, we know how to say something about the law. The fact that the voting machine has passed the Working Time Act, therefore, and after a month, me just as well as a few other colleagues will not say angry but I am sickened by the statement that it is the Croatian Parliament and all of us together here. Whoever proposed such a law to the Croatian Parliament a month later, the same law simply knocked down and passed the regulation by phone. The regulation was needed not to speak now about the usefulness of the regulation at the time, but the way it was all carried out is indeed a disaster. If you would be in a good mood and if you had some kind of consensus, that all of us as people, as advocates, regardless of party membership, accept some of the things that have been presented here, especially to colleagues from Brkaric who really spoke in a calm, in a good tone, in a tone of good faith and in a good spirit, then this could be accepted, and in view of Article 4 where there is inconsistencies, so some decisions remain, and some, some, after a year, cease to apply, it is inconsistencies. It's both inaccuracy and inconsistency. Therefore, for the time being, if this text remains, I will not vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17086	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17087	Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Grubisic, it is true that no one has had or been vaccinated against mistakes, and that is fine, such an understanding we must all have with us. But for the sake of truth, the regulation you're calling for to be passed by the coalition government is not the government, it's the minister's regulation. It was the minister's regulation, and the government abolished the regulation the next day. You're right about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17088	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17089	Final proposals of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues and activities of the Croatian Parliament's work. It was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 153. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Representative Zvonimir Mršić and representative Gordan Mara. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. First of all, the Committee for, the Deputy Secretary of State. Here you are, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17090	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government accepts the amendment of the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17091	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Mršić's representative on Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17092	The government does not accept the above-mentioned amendment because the government, meanwhile, proposed amendments to the Law on Trade, the content of which the amendment and supplementation was subject to this Regulation and which law is now discussed in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17093	Thank you. There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. And Mr Gordan Maras' amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17094	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17095	And someone's explanation. You have to say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17096	Because it was contained in the amendment of the Constitution Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17097	Oh, that's right. Thank you very much. But still Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17098	My amendment followed, I have not now seen the amendment of the Constitution Committee, but it has gone to the fact that decisions by which legislative regulations are laid down cannot be made in secret government meetings, or in government telephone sessions. So if it's in this amendment to the Constitutional Committee, then I'm pulling it, and if it isn't, then I'm not pulling it, and you said it was, so it's in,... Well, you must, then you've told us wrong, give me an explanation, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17099	So it's not in the amendment to the Constitutional Committee, so we vote. Who's in favour of this amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17100	No, not just a little bit, give us an explanation. I'd like to ask you, Mr. President, can you be clear about reading that amendment to all of us, and let our colleague explain to us why they refuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17101	Like this. Sure, sure, though it's not exactly a custom, but we'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17102	But it's not clear to the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17103	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So, you choose to plead, if you plead, yes, you said you didn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17104	Yes, Mr. President, but it is not accepted for the reasons why the government's ways are governed by the Government Act and in which they are prescribed that the government adopts its acts at the cabinet's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17105	So thank you very much. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? There's no more, no more, no more, I've read your amendment, I'm putting it to the vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. And I am voting on the final draft law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Detained 1. I find that the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted by 78 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17106	Let's go to the next - - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Declaration of the Western Part of Medvednica Park of Nature, first reading of P.Z. No. 140 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, spatial planning and construction and environmental protection. You received the reports at the session. Culture Minister Bozo Biskupić will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. The proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Declaration of the West of Medvednica Nature Park is actually made up for two main reasons. One is to strengthen and improve the quality of the protection of nature parks, and the other is to make life easier for almost 40,000 inhabitants of the capital that are in the meantime living in that part. Namely, the Law on the Declaration of the West Medvednica Park of Nature from '81. The western part of Medvednica with its surrounding landscape has been declared mass and its borders have been established. In the Prigorje zone stretching the inner edge of the park towards the city of Zagreb, there was a non-planic urbanisation before the park was declared, and in particular the unplanned urbanisation of the 20-year period was intensified, the circus from the Park's declaration in '81 until its establishment in '98. year, you better say until the beginning of the year 2000. At that time before the park was actually working and, in fact, by doing what was actually declared, there was this huge non-planish urbanization, and now since the very establishment of a public institution, which is now about 10 years old, those supervisors who are working there in the nature park are actually more communal problems or they were dealing with the communal problems of the urban area of nature park, instead of actually dealing with what they were set up there for, which is the protection of natural values, which is why this park was actually declared as well. In order to address the problem of non-plann urbanisation in the protected area, the Ministry of Culture prepared this proposal, consisting of changing the borders of the Nature Park Medvednica so that intensive urban areas with inadequate construction are excluded from the park. Just to contribute to better management and protection of the park, the Ministry of Culture accepted a professional basis for changing the borders of the Medvednica Nature Park, which was developed by the State Nature Protection Institute in July 2005. Unlike the '81 declaration. the year which was not based on any professional basis, nor was the public aware of it, this proposal is based on that expert basis, and the public is familiar with the organisation of public insight into the proposal for changes in borders and the cited expert background with the cartographic depiction in September and October 2005, Zagreb, Donjo Stubica and Bistra. ... The public has been given this public insight largely accepted in this proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The compensation that occurs, of course, because a certain reduction will occur here, is achieved by declaring new protected areas in other parts of Croatia. During the last term, the government increased the share of protected natural areas from 8% to 12%. It means that only in four years, 50% of Croatia has been increased in fact by a protected area, and a large part of Croatia's surface is covered by the national ecological network. The proposal to completely distinguish itself without overlapping the nature park Medvednica and the general urban plan of Zagreb has been accepted and included in this bill of law before you. This overlap zone has made it more difficult for the local population, as I have already mentioned in the outing of local, construction permits, but thus simplifies the outcome of these permits, as well as the plans of other... Like, for example. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The GUP provide better and more detailed mechanisms and protection of that space. In other words, more precisely protection can be prescribed in this area. As it comes to first reading, I pray, we expect that there will be quality remarks and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17108	Thank you. Legislative committees, spatial planning, environmental protection, construction? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative's club, Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17109	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the very beginning of the presentation on this bill, on the amendments to the Law on the Declaration of Part of Medvednica Park Nature Park, which changes borders and significantly reduces the area of Medvednica Nature Park, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP will be restrained when voting on this bill. Allow me to explain to this occasion the reasons why the Club of Representatives and SDPs will be retained on this bill. The reason why we will not vote against this bill is the fact that the space that this law plans to move beyond the nature park of Medvednica, which includes nearly 5,000 hectares and where around 30,000 people live today. In such a state, that is, he is so devastated by the construction and exploitation of stone, that the remaining area under the protection regime provided for nature parks is still meaningless. In that sense, this bill is nothing but a verification of the existing state of affairs, I would say the recognition of the unpleasant truth by the truth that was unable to protect this extremely valuable area of nature. We cannot oppose the adoption of this law because it will significantly facilitate the lives of 30,000 residents living in the area, but it will facilitate the work of nature park management Medvednica, which is in a rather frustrating, uncomfortable, I would say in a schizophrenic situation, because according to the existing law, something that is impossible to protect further because of the scale of devastation. In this regard, the Club of Representatives and representatives of the SDP does not want to impose unrealistic demands and to politicise cheaply on this sad example. The reason why the Club of Representatives and representatives of the SDP cannot and will not support the adoption of this law is because we believe that a line must be drawn somewhere and said not to further devast protected areas of nature whether it is nature parks or national parks. Although I understand the ambition for economic development and the achievement of profits and the wishes of citizens living near such areas have real estate in these areas, in order to achieve material benefits, the state must have and must be responsible for the protection of our most valuable resources, which are the areas of nature that are devastations of our biological and landscape diversity. Therefore, in support of this law, we see a great danger, even opening Pandora's box according to all future demands aimed at material exploitation, and thus devastation of the most valuable areas of nature, what nature parks and national parks are like. Because the fact is that this bill represents a sad capitulation and... a manifestation of an unacceptable state's inability to protect our most valuable resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this SDP as a responsible political party cannot support at all and therefore we will not vote in favour of this bill. In addition, we find it unacceptable to give up applicants from the replacement of exclusive areas of nature parks with forest areas located east of the border of the present nature park, i.e. forests with largely private ownership, located in the Green area. In particular, we find it unacceptable to explain this abandonment by the fact that these forests are privately owned and that Croatia has an extremely large area of nature in some form of protection and, as the minister said a few moments ago, it will be replaced by the declaration of some degree of protection in other parts of Croatia. Here I am talking about a very specific nature park about a nature park whose area of this law will be reduced by nearly 5,000 hectares, representing almost a quarter of the existing Nature Park "Medvednica", and you will agree with me and it is not exactly a negligible area. In this regard, we believe that the position of the promoters was that if, because of objective circumstances, it is going to change the boundaries of this nature park by making up for the exclusive areas on the west side of the park, the forest area on the east side of the park. In that case, the Club of Representatives and representatives of the SDP would support this bill. This leaves a rather bitter taste in the mouth when we read in the opening part of the bill, quote "unsuitable and unauthorized construction, as well as intensive neplanisation in the prigorje zone along the inner edge of the Nature Park "Medvednica" according to the City of Zagreb is one of the greatest pressures on the protected area". This zone has been devastated over a long period of time despite the established protection law. The situation is now no longer possible to fix but it is necessary to work on a better and more effective protection of the remaining preserved part of the border zone of nature park. From the point of view of nature protection as well as from the point of view of management of the protected area, it is considered justified to exclude an area of inappropriate contents from the park border, by amending the boundaries of the Nature Park "Medvednica" established by the law of the 1981 declaration. The promoter seems to have come from Mars, so now taking up some quasi objective position speaks in this case as if he had absolutely no connection and of course no responsibility for this inappropriate and inappropriate construction and not planned urbanization. Someone did something and someone should do something, it's necessarily considered. These are formulations which speak very clearly with the responsibility of the applicant to address this issue. It is precisely in such an incredibly indolent attitude of a state that refuses to recognise its responsibility which is not responsible for anything and which is powerless to implement the laws itself, precisely in this incompetence of the state and infunctioning of state institutions in the first part of the building inspection that we see the greatest danger in accepting such a bill. Because we are afraid that the state institutions have not learned anything from this sad case, so the next thing we need not be surprised if in a month or a year in the Assembly we are discussing changes to the borders of another nature park, perhaps the "Vran Lake" where we are going to build golf courses or perhaps even the borders of a national park and, of course, in the context of a reduction, rather than an increase in the protected area of nature. So that this doesn't happen, we appeal to the authorities of the state administration to wake up from a self-satisfaction trance and finally start implementing laws that they themselves propose and write. Finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP, I appeal to the Proposer to seriously and without prejudice consider these criticisms, and to accept our suggestion aimed at substituting exceptional areas of nature with forest space in the Zelin area and east of the existing boundaries of Nature Park "Medvednica", i.e. to install this space in the bill before the second reading. And I end up because of everything previously said, the Advocacy Club and the SDP's representative believes that the current proposal for this law still needs to be done and significantly repaired until the second reading, and that is why we will be abstentioned when we vote in this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17110	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17111	Well, I have to correct the incorrect assumption that the promoter came from Mars. He definitely didn't come from a tour of the park where he found a series of illegally built buildings built because of it, because he had just passed a law that illegally built buildings could be connected to the infrastructure. They're all neatly connected to both power lines and stuff. Therefore, if it had not been for that law, there would certainly not have been so much devastation in the area and parks of nature and all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17112	The club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17113	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. A strategy and action plan to protect the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia from '99. It has been defined that the protection of certain areas is a fundamental method of preserving biodiversity and landscape diversity. Protected areas form the backbone of overall protection and key nodes of the ecological network, which represent shelters and reservoirs of biodiversity. According to data from the Ministry of Culture in Croatia are currently under protection in one of the categories prescribed by the Nature Protection Act 2 strict reserves, 8 national parks, 78 special reserves, 11 nature parks, 103 monuments of nature, 70 significant landscapes, 38 park woods and 135 monuments of park architecture. The current area of protected areas is a total of 5 thousand 124 square kilometers, which is 9.5% of the land area of the Republic of Croatia, and the strategy plans to double this area in the future. What we're discussing today is certainly not on the trail of this strategy setting. Some of the main objectives of nature protection tasks prescribed by the 2005 Nature Protection Act are to preserve and restore existing biodiversity and landscape diversity in the state of natural balance and harmonised relations with human activity, to prevent harmful human interventions and disturbances in nature as a consequence of technological development and the exercise of activities and to ensure the right of citizens to a healthy life, rest and leisure in nature. Respecting, among other things, the objectives and tasks of this above-mentioned Socialist Republic of Croatia's Assembly adopted in '81. The law of declaring the western part of Medvednica a park of nature. The Nature Protection Act defined nature park as a vast, natural or partly cultured area of land and or sea with ecological characteristics of international and national importance with prominent landscape educational, cultural, cultural historical and tourist recreational values. The nature park allows economic and other activities and activities which do not endanger its essential features and roles, and how to perform economic activities and the use of natural resources in the nature park are determined by the conditions of nature protection. The Internal Order Regulation in Nature Park "Medvednica" also stipulated that the construction of renovations of houses and other facilities in the area of nature park was allowed only in accordance with the law, the spatial plan of nature park in order to comply with the conditions of protection of nature established by the ministry. This Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Declaration of the West of Medvednica by Nature Park proposes reducing the area and changing the border of the protected area from the original 22 000 826 hectares to 17 thousand 983 hectares. In the assessment of the situation as a reason for the reduction of the area of nature park, therefore the reduction of the protected area by 4000 843 hectares or 21% is referred to as inappropriate and unauthorized construction and intensive neplanisation in the prigorje zone along the inner edge of the nature park Medvednica towards the town of Zagreb. The end of the quote. Which suggests that, despite the law so far, the Internal Order Regulation and the prescribed procedure for the establishment of building permits in the protected area have been implemented by illegal construction of buildings and urbanisation. Looking at the area now exempt from protection is obviously a long-standing and even systematic violation of the rules that should now be legalised and enable investors to generate extra profits at the expense of preserving natural and landscape values, green oasis and the lungs of the city of Zagreb. There are even more points in the eyes and text that explain the consequences that will arise by passing this law. It states: "His adoption from the park area will exclude inappropriate content, highly urbanised border zone burdened by inadequate construction." End of quote. In all its strategic documents, the Republic of Croatia stresses the preserved nature and nature value as one of its important comparative advantages and the foundation of future tourism development. We know that from year to year the number of visitors in our national parks, nature parks and other protected areas is increasing. Some also record over a million visitors a year, most of whom are foreigners. It is also true that the percentage of protected areas has been increasing in recent years. The last is the declaration of the own island by nature's park, but as far as I know, there are some other announcements in the process. But this reduction of the protected area in whose protection is also invested and taxpayers' money gives certain rights to others and the possibility of illegal interventions in nature legalising changes in borders and areas of protected areas. There is also a question of justification for the protection itself because such procedures will certainly have an impact on a wider area, which includes an area within the Nature Park border, because it is impossible to address their negative impact in nature by limiting the movement of the lines on the map because it is a whole series of direct or indirect influences that will be felt in a wider area and thus within the boundaries of the protected area. We believe that it is necessary through the revision of the strategy and action plan to protect the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia, which is in the preparation of a positive regulatory provision for the work of institutions that manage protected areas and their human resources, and by strict application of repressive measures, to halt such inappropriate and unauthorized construction, intensive non-planned urbanisation and uncontrollable use of natural resources within the current borders of protected areas. We're all witnessing a large number of buildings built on the Adriatic coast and in its nearby hinterland. We also know that most of the particularly valuable and protected areas are located in that part of the Republic of Croatia, and by adopting such a law, we give everyone else the opportunity to act in this way. This could have long-term inconspicuous consequences of both biodiversity and landscape diversity, the sustainable development of our tourism as well as the perceptions of Croatia as a destination with untouchable nature and an environmentally-oriented future member of the European Union. In the countries of the European Union, the practice is to protect at least 15% of the total state territory and we would reduce our ten percent. And not just that. We send a very ugly political message somewhere like Medvednica someone can do anything, and somewhere the boggers will shamelessly tear down cottages that have been infuriated by themselves for tens of and more years during weekends and holidays by small people. In Medvednica, small people, small cottages were built in a very small minority. I don't want to justify little people. After all, neither small nor great people have the right to build where they are not allowed. And we prove our credibility by not making any difference between them or between Zagreb and the island of Vir. Somewhere by sending the badgers to crash and somewhere signing laws to legalize illegal construction. The fundamental question is what is it, quote the legislator of the law "unsuitable and unauthorized construction and intensive non-planned urbanization on Medvednica"? From the qualifications used, it turns out there was everything here. And the guilt of the citizens and the guilt of the state service. I am interested and ask the answer whether these cottages, houses and villas for rent on Medvednica in the area of Nature Park are illegally built, meaning without a building permit or legally with a building permit? If they were built illegally, who was it, and why was he closing his eyes in front of that? If they are built legally with a building permit, then it is a matter of wild construction with a sin of administration, which is by issuing permits for construction or incompetence or by knowingly failing certain professional activities that leads to implementing solutions of construction facilities in the space. So wild construction is legal but its product in space can be catastrophic. It does not fit the space according to the criteria of the location of the accommodation, the gauge, the used material, the aesthetic appearance and the like. Many bear fairies are just like that. If they were built legally with a building permit that should not have been issued or should not have been issued for at least a part of the building of a special villa that certainly does not fit the traditional environment with aesthetic appearance we have all the responsible persons from the state administration signed on the papers. Why did they do that? signed the licenses? Who was protecting them? Did any of them answer for that? Is there any action against them at all? Houses aren't birds. Each has its own buried foundation, its name and last name, address, license number, the person who issued the permit with or without rights. I bet most of them were built in the years of independent Croatia, so we can't blame socialism for that. Of course, there were certain forms of economic activity and housing in nature park space before the declaration, but the main function of Nature Park is the protection of the natural area from a higher concentration of economic activity or excessive housing. And in it we allowed the creation of a city the size of the Koprivnica. It is clear that this law solves the final act. By law, we repair the damage done, but surely we will not be clapped by those with whom we have dealt with the same final act or we will be dealing with the baggers. The extent of the damage done is enormous. More than 30,000 inhabitants live in this protected area of nature park to date. There are streets, buildings, neighborhoods where there is no nature in which the supervisors of the Medvednica Nature Park should protect. The only question is whether it was meant to be, who is to blame for further reducing green areas and forests, for reducing air quality and permanently destroying landscapes. Here is the work of immature democracy syndrome, a country with yet underdeveloped environmental and spatial protection institutions, i.e. the failure of the rule of law. We don't need good, best laws if they're not practically implemented. In fact, the public is already quite sensitive to environmental problems, but the debate and reaction based on harmful influences and actions from those who are paid to control and prevent them are usually too late when the procedure in the area with negative influence has arisen. Such treatment in the environment can be done by picking mushrooms. So, let's wait for them to pop up and then go get them, but not in investment construction procedures with thousands of tons of concrete. With them we cannot wait and watch them grow, build, sometimes for years or decades not react and eventually cover ourselves with ashes on the head, reconcile with the final act and its negative consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17114	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17115	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the introduction, I will tell you that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the draft law amending the Law on the Declaration of the Western part of the Medvednica Park of Nature. It has already been said here I will repeat that the law of 1981 is the mass of the western part of Medvednica with the surrounding landscape declared a nature park in the total area of 22826 ha. Nature park Medvednica is a specific park. I don't know if you know it, but in Croatia, most of you know it, 11 nature parks. In these 10 nature parks live around the circus of 3000 inhabitants, and in the park of nature Medvednica lives 33, and I would bet already 35,000 people today. Nature park Medvednica is also specific by the fact that there are 41 settlements in it and that there are two counties and the city of Zagreb. So it must be specific as opposed to others. The Public Institute Nature Park was founded in 1988, and started in 2000. Here, and the first supervisors had just begun their work in 2001, so it increased in 2002 that here today the supervisory service inside the park, the public institution of the Nature Park Medvednica. This bill would reduce the area of Medvednica Park from 22,000 to 17th and something. So, for something less than 5,000 squares. Why? One of the biggest problems in the protection and management of Nature Park Medvednica is the problem of inappropriate and inadequate construction, as well as intensive non-planning urbanization in so-called ". the sub-Slemenic zone extending along the inner edge of the nature park. The incomparability of such content in the protected area as well as a major problem in the management and protection of this outcome has led to a proposal to change the boundaries of nature parks. It is found that from the point of view of nature protection, when it is justified to remove inappropriate content from the park from the point of view of the management of the protected area. So the one we're talking about today and the fact that this area has been devastated for a long time. So, since '81. when the Law on the declared Nature Park of Medvednica was passed. I must say that the largest part of Zagreb's side has been devastated, and the smaller part of the Zagorska side, meaning Krapina-Zagorska County and Zagreb County. The situation is impossible to fix, and it is necessary to work on the quality and part of the protection of the quality and part of the protection of the remaining preserved parts of the edge zone. In 1981, it should be said the same way when the Medvednica Nature Park was declared. Well, I would now ask if you fell from Mars when they declared that area a nature park, and already there were more than 20,000 inhabitants. The new border of Nature Park is defined and described in such a way that as far as possible, it follows recognizable points or lines in space, means quotas of altitude, streams, roads or the like, which is particularly important because of the legal obligation, marking the border of protected space. Where possible, the border follows the construction area line according to the general urban plan of the city of Zagreb and the border between the catastrian municipalities. What are the shortcomings of existing borders? The current borders include an urbanized zone at the edge of the park that has lost its natural values. Many of the 33,000 inhabitants in the park from Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska County, Zagreb County are often unequally limited in their activities due to the park protection regime. The settlements were cut unnaturally across half of the mentioned borders, so different legal regulations apply to the right or left of the street. We have cases of border crossing the center of the settlement, so on one side of the street you have to have a 20% larger building plot than on the other side because you're in a nature park. Unfortunately, we have cases that in my park of nature, you have a gas station in the nature park built, that you have a concrete store, and those concrete plants and gas stations were built in the late 1980s. So, then she didn't care about the devastation of the park. For reasons of its legal obligations, the public institution is forced to address municipal problems of border urbanisation that do not fall within the scope of nature protection and are not in line with the objectives for which it is established and lacks sufficient powers. Such densely populated areas with diverse human activity generates and the need to extract a large number of solutions from the domain of nature protection – means permission, especially the conditions of nature protection, and burdens the work of the Nature Protection and Inspection Services Administration and thus puts the inhabitants of the park in an unequal position compared to those living outside the park. It has been concluded that part of the problems mentioned could be addressed by adequate changes in borders, and the basis of an analysis of the existing situation has been developed a proposal for new boundaries of nature parks on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture. The following criteria are respected when defining new borders and reducing nature parks in the western part of Medvednica. Only necessary reductions in the park area have been carried out with the maintenance of all areas of preserved natural values without hitting the area of basic phenomena, meaning well-preserved natural forests. Urbanized areas that have lost their natural value have separated from the park, so cutting the park's borders will be avoided. The borders are withdrawn in such a way that it is easy to determine them on the ground, preferably means they are connected to geographical features, roads, roads, waterways, forest edges and catastrian municipalities. Where this purpose is followed by administrative boundaries to facilitate the management and provision of the population in spatial planning documents. For example, the most populated southern clouds of Zagreb's Medvednica side by changing the borders of nature parks and the general urban plan of the City of Zagreb, and there will be no more overlapping of nature parks with the general urban plan, which has been the case so far. On the Zagorje side, a mostly low-level area has been detached, which does not have the appropriate characteristics of nature parks and has kept access to the forest complex in part which is not significantly affected by urbanisation, and the border is defined along less roads and waterways. What positive consequences will happen by changing the borders of the park? From the protected area of the existing nature park, inappropriate content of the intensively urbaned border zone will be thrown out of the protected area and the solution of municipal problems will be transferred from the state level, meaning public nature park institutions to the local level, meaning the City of Zagreb, the county and the municipality. The regime of the use of space in settlements that are currently in nature park will no longer be unnaturally doubled in view of the border of nature park passing through roads and sharing settlements on an area outside and inside the nature park. The existing conditions of construction and arrangement of the space prescribed for the nature park will also cease to be valid, meaning... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that space citizens will be simplified procedure... for the construction of other activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Detailed conditions of construction and arrangement of civil areas will be regulated by the spatial plans of the lower order, the county, the municipal, the city. A single regime of protection and management for the natural mass of Medvednica will be provided. In particular, it should be pointed out that the Ministry of Culture informed the public by organising public insight according to a proposal to amend the borders of the Nature Park Medvednica and presented cartographic documentation. Public insight was held in Zagreb, in Lower Stubica and in Bistra and most of the objections were made during public insights and accepted. Here, due to all this above, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the bill on amendments to the Law of the Western part of the Medvednica area by nature park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17116	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The final debate on the Government's proposal to amend the law that reduces the nature of Medvednica Nature Park is an opportunity to update the issue of whether Croatia cares about its natural resources. In words, surely the answer would be more than positive, but in reality, the state is not even close to being good. The reason that the reduction in the Medvednica Park area is necessary because of the devastation on the edges that lasted for years is not to be added. The assessment of the above is absolutely correct. In this way justification for this act that will follow exists. However, it is crucial whether this reduction in the territory of nature park will be the last or in 10 or 15 years before some new assembly of Parliament will again come the requirement to comply with the real situation on the ground, and then from nature park and Medvednica which is the trademark of Zagreb and this part of Croatia may not remain anything, except the story that once there were slopes, the slopes of the forest. This debate testifies on the one hand about the failure of the rule of law in Croatia and its institutions to put an end to the illegality and devastation of the most valuable Croatian spaces, and on the other hand, the cause should be sought in the indifference of the institutions and people at their head to achieve effective protection of natural values because other interests, interests related to financial interference of land and the construction of different fast selling buildings and easy profit at a far higher price are in Croatia today than some kind of protection of nature. Which means protecting 1300 plant species from which Law 20 is protected only on Medvednica compared to, say, the value of 20 urban villas on the slopes of the same Medvednica. Unfortunately, the government, and many local authorities today, when all the ideology of money comes down primarily to the hands of mechanics and builders and when it comes to the obvious usurpation of space, rather than taking care of the protection of space and thus the quality of life of the people themselves. You will agree that the government should be the one to send a clear and unambiguous message to all that natural resources are of invaluable importance to Croatia and that they are not sold out. And that Croatia has not built a system of environmental protection and that we are stronger in words than in action shows the complete confusion that exists in ministries and state-owned enterprises. It's enough to follow the media to see that our left often doesn't know what he's doing to our right and vice versa. I'd like to be denied. Take, for example, the south of Croatia, the valley of Neretva. While the competent Ministry of Culture aims to further protect the Neretva valley as the largest swamp habitat complex in the Croatian coast, the Ministry of Agriculture in the same area plans further interventions in the intensification of agriculture, individual construction and lobbys with the support of individual ministers plan to build a hotel-tourism complex, while the Ministry of Economy with HEP planned to support Republika Srpska's efforts in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the project "the upper horizon". To remind you, this project involves the construction of hydropower plants and the rerouting of water flows of rivers that are poured into Neretva, which would lead to major consequences for the lower flow of the river. So in such a small area, at least 4 are different strategic projects, some of which exclude all others. It is strong to conclude that action to protect nature... Neregation is the weakest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I could talk about the dragon's eye at the Frapa marina in Rogoznica, which was surrounded by a wire fence, I personally saw. Or Nature Park, Lake Vransko, which is threatened by illegal construction, intensification of agriculture, hunting and perjury and other human activities. You could hear a lot about all this in public, so the story of our failures in the protection of natural resources isn't since yesterday. However, a relatively new story about the Lonj field shows all the disorganization that exists within the government institutions. And while the Ministry of Culture and Minister I boast that the aim is for the Park of Nature Lonjsko polje, which is to welcome, as the largest protected flood area of the Danube Left, to come to UNESCO's list of world natural resources, in neighbouring ministries, at least three regional developments, then maritime and transport, and to protect the environment and spatial planning, and to the state-owned company Croatian waters are planned as the largest investment project for the construction of the Danube-Sava channel. In addition to the channel, the goal is to turn Sava by deepening the riverbed into a waterway for larger ships, which ultimately means further endangering Lonjsko polje Is it clear to someone in the government that UNESCO and the canal do not go together. The channel will potentially endanger the Spačvanski pool as the largest forest complex in eastern Slavonia. However, this does not concern individual members of the government at all, because nature protection is not as lucrative as building hotel and tourist apartments, golf courses, canals, roads and the like. How strong individual lobbys are in defense of their bankruptcy rights, I could literally see for myself when I submitted an initiative to declare Nature Park Kopački ass national park a few years ago. In challenging this proposal, the hunting association was the most controversial. Why? Well, simply by making their goal clear. On that state land to build an exclusive hunting ground. And the government between the hunting grounds and the first national park in Slavonia, which would make the inhabitants of that part of Croatia benefit greatly, chose a hunting ground. In order to avoid confusion, I still felt that both hunting ground and national park could exist next to each other, but not within each other which is contrary to the law and what is at work today. And it's... pictures of the state of nature protection in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this context, the government's proposal also needs to be seen, looking for guarantees that new devastations will not be exceptional. We can see that the government is not ready to compensate for the territory on the other side of the Medvednica, which is not good. Only hope remains that awareness in society, with the more efficient work of the competent state authorities, will nevertheless be sufficient obstacle to further devastation of this forest area or will rely on the natural inaccessibility of the terrain and economic insolvency as the best protection of the largest part of the Medvednica Nature Park. One of the brochures on nature parks and national parks is published by the Ministry of Culture, according to Medvednica, that despite the proximity of almost million towns, there is a well-preserved natural heritage. It is our responsibility, especially for the people in the bodies of the state government as well as in the city of Zagreb, that this rating is good, if we can't raise it already, and it seems that we can't, then it is really good, because the value of the Medvednica for Zagreb and the citizens of Zagreb is in its greenery and non-building. New complexes, residential or hotel-tourism, with new sports facilities would further mutilate not only Medvednica but also the city of Zagreb. Therefore, let us begin to uphold the law and sanction those who do not adhere to it. If there aren't enough inspectors, let's hire new ones. We fire the corrupt. But the result in 10, 15 or 20 years should not be a new requirement for further reduction of the nature park area because it would be a defeat of not this or some other new government, but all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17118	Thank you. We have one replica, the distinguished representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17119	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague, here it is, I really think that you did very well by mentioning these other examples, and I am extremely sorry that my colleague Krunoslav Markovanovic is not currently in the assembly, which he did not listen to your debate, because it is obviously not exactly the situation and the result of the four-year coalition government led by the SDP so that the devastation of nature in Croatia is caused only by an amendment to the law which allows illegal, i.e. illegal objects to join the municipal infrastructure. Because we see that the Medvednica case is not the only one in this regard, and I think if we need to look at the responsibility of certain ruling structures, that there is a HDZ responsibility significantly longer because, as far as I'm aware of 14 years of government, HDZ is in power in Croatia. Of course, since we were left alone, and we were only four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17120	Replica response, distinguished representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17121	You know when there's nothing to answer, then you say those four years of Racan government. Well, it seems that in four years, the Racan government of Croatia was humiliated, robbed, and I don't know what was done with it. And everyone forgets that back in the '90s, which was made by the HDZ government in those 10 years. But it doesn't matter. It is unfortunate that such discussions are being conducted. When we talk about environmental protection, the environment doesn't devastate since yesterday, it has devastated as it was said in the name of the HDZ Representatives Club before the 1990s, let's go to the former system. In the 1990s, it was devastating and from 2000 to 2004, we put our hands on the heart, as it devasts and now, but just satisfied to say that the new Sanader government has come no longer devastation and how we have built a system of environmental protection is the least said funny. I would also like the minister who is here, finally one of the few ministers who came to the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, to tell me. Let's take Lonjsko polje, specifically, about Medvednica we agreed more or less. But what about the Lonj field? While the Ministry of Culture proposes to go to UNESCO's list of protected areas, at the same time several other ministries propose quite a tenth, showing that the system in Croatia is unfortunately not functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17122	Let's move on with the individual debate. Dear Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17123	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, it is rare that any city, which country can rarely boast of having both male and female slalom, is on this very hill, thanks to our athletes, primarily Janica and Ivica Kostelic, but also thanks to one culture and tradition of skiing and all the good that has been happening in Zagreb for centuries. And that's good. But what's bad is, and what's being said in the meantime means since nature park was declared, it was 1981. There was illegal construction, although in nature parks were worth stricter urbanist, meaning more rigorous rules. It wasn't entirely illegal to build, but the fact is that it's illegal to build flowers. Unfortunately, in the 1990s, with the beginning of the 90s, the unfortunate war which brought many human fates and brought to the space of the City of Zagreb has done in some way that people in search of their home and resolved their housing issue and ignorance, and institutions that did their job at the time did not do it in that way, and that is why we still have a bunch of illegal facilities in the City of Zagreb today. Only after 2000 is the same thing to be said, the implementation began, and that was mentioned by the minister himself, so nature park was established as functional, but implementation and some other things began to be resolved and some other urban things were not resolved until then. For example, the adoption of GUP Grdo Zagreb, later the adoption of spatial plans, means detailed spatial plans for each end of the City of Zagreb and this was the beginning of a systematic problem resolution and the SDP is at the head of responsibility in the City of Zagreb, so that in this battle it is decided to deal with it, and all in the sense and all in order to enable people who built houses there, to live on that territory, to have people who have their homes, families who have invested the money there to continue living. And what should we not have allowed humans to bring water? To bring the sewers to their homes, and they live there with their families, with little children. Who is it, what are these institutions that these people don't want and can't allow them to bring water, sewerage, means elemental conditions. In the '90s, when the mass construction began in the sub-slim area, there were certain gaps. They haven’t done their job well, but that’s why those people who are there with their families today can’t and can’t bear the consequences. Because life writes programs, and programs aren't written without active participants in life, so no people. And that's why this reduction in nature park in the western part of the absolutely SDP supports it. However, I must say two things that are related to the nature park. The fact is that this western part of Medvednica as a kind of zone with a special regime, so within nature park it was under something more rigorous and more receptive urban rules itself, but it is also a fact that it served as a sort of buffer zone for future construction. So we're now moving the border where it wasn't built and we're actually kind of giving up that buffer zone. On the other hand, I must remind you, you probably know the same thing, Mr. Minister, that in Croatia only 8.69 surfaces are protected, meaning protected areas of nature. The European directives say it must be 15 and we must meet those criteria, and the European Union member states have 20%. So they have also exceeded the European directives and 5% are above these criteria. And for that reason, the City Office for Spatial Planning also sent a kind of note, calling for the Medvednica, i.e. The nature park extends in that eastern part, meaning it expands in that section towards Zelina and thus preserves 21,000 hectares. Because if we can't expand the territory of nature park let's at least watch to keep it in the same square. And there's no reason not to do it, nor can argument be that it's private forests, because the good part of the present nature park is also in the domain of private forests. I also appeal to you to consider this, to expand the nature park on the east side because further urbanisation means a trail and further urbanization of this beautiful pearl of the Medvednica mountain means symbols, one of the symbols of Zagreb and Croatia and one of the leading export products, and in recent times and sports products should definitely be imperative for you and your ministry, and I hope that some changes will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17124	Thank you. We have two replicas. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17125	Well, you've noticed a good colleague in the '90s, although there's been such construction before and attacks on Medvednica, and not only this protected nature park, but in the '90s, which isn't an accident, while some of them were fighting others were building here. But what you say to a colleague and to a team because they didn't do inspection services both at the time and when they were supposed to do so was to enable both the connection to both water and electricity. Because what did people do and what was an exceptional security problem? That they were pulling electricity from one house to another as a neighbor. So from one house, it lit up or I don't know if it supplied electricity to a few houses. It was one monster, every once in a while threatened by fires and endangering the population. But what's being asked here is a fundamental question. How, therefore, in all documents, the Government almost speaks in all laws about the special protection of our most valuable resource that Croatia still has, these are water, these are forests, that is land, as well as units of local self-government. And in this way the reduction of that area is true which cannot be fixed but can be compensated. That is why it is not acceptable and it is absolutely unacceptable that in the assessment of the situation, the state of justice, the rule of law that there are fewer in that eastern part, smaller private properties of forest that should be bought out. Well, of course you can buy it if you can protect yourself. And why do they lay down those provisions on the right of the first purchases that exist in many of our laws? How many states have spent money using this first-bought law institute? Not a single kuna, not a single lip.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17126	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17127	Thank you very much. This is true, so in the 1990s, there was increased construction, but not because people there wanted to build illegally, but because they might not have had time, especially because the institutions did not find it appropriate to inform them about the part. A man who has escaped from his home, and such 40,000 of our fellow citizens live in that field, so not only them, with a bag in his hand from the war zone, where he was practically expelled from, could he not or had time to think about urban rules and such people and their families as well as those who in some way have built buildings on that ground, cannot forbid them to have conditions worthy of man. So, they can't be banned from being watered, they can't be banned from being channelled, so they're people, they're ours, and they're mine primarily because I'm citizens from the City of Zagreb and they're 40,000, and they've been going through these changes and I repeat them again, so they're forced and not informed, and all because they haven't done their part of the work in a certain part of the institution and they can't be blamed for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17128	Thank you. And another replica of the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17129	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague actually wanted to say that I'm extremely glad that you've actually elaborated this social context of the issue of this law so well, and I'd like to reiterate that it wasn't from the very beginning for the SDP that we respect this situation and I don't want to complicate the life of those cities. However, it is absolutely unacceptable what you also mentioned in your debate, meaning that this area does not compensate for an area substituting from the other side of the park, because in this way the promoter would actually show his responsibility to the protection of nature which is one of the most valuable resources the state has. And in this sense, I am extremely pleased that the young, or youngest representative here shows such sensitivity to this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17130	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17131	So thank you, fellow Members, so the tree is being restored, the flora is being restored, the fauna is being restored, and people say that space is not being restored, and so it's extremely important that we at least maintain that level of 21 thousand hectares, means not to expand it, because we're going to have to expand it into other parts, but to maintain it. And the SDP absolutely agrees and is the first to agree that people in that zone are allowed to live a decent man, that is to exclude them from the park of nature because we can no longer, nor does it make sense to protect them, since there is the construction of such coffee, but on the other hand we appeal to be in the eastern part, where there can be, where the forest is and there can be no argument that the private pearl of the City of Zagreb and the entire Republic of Croatia is protected in that part of 21 thousand hectares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17132	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Prime Minister Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I thank all those who have discussed this topic so far, it shows just how important this topic is. We're aware of that in the ministry. Well, I'm going to comment on a few claims, first of all, whether or not the promoter fell off Mars would have been more of a syntagma if he'd fallen off a pear, because it's a caucus ending, and somehow it would have been more of a fit. If it's already about that syntagma, but I must say it hasn't fallen from Mars or from the pear, because the observation that this text actually describes the current state, it's the only way that we honestly and openly described in those explanations the state it is. And we said, this is an impossible condition. The fact is that since 2000, really, the guards have been formed and set up, people working in the park have started to control themselves and there is no more devastation, and the construction that was until 2000. Since the year 2000, it's been shrinking here, and that's why we're asking it to finally get rid of and separate that part where almost 40,000 people live, of which 20,000 people have lived before, we've heard. Let's not forget, someone said nice, so it's already streets, neighborhoods, buildings, but there are old settlements that, like you MPs said, needed water and sewerage, and they deserve those villages that have been there since the ages that people have said. But there's something I have to say, all the fears that we're going to reduce and that we're reducing protected areas, they're not in place. We've increased in those last four years from 8%, 8.6% you said, protected areas to 12. Take a look at this at the level of the entire Croatian state's surface. So by almost 50%, by 4%, or 50% so far, we've increased to 12%. I have to say that we suggested an ecological network, at a distance of 46% when we say no to these 12%, that's 36%. You know what the European average is, 15 to 20%. We have almost double and we suggest protecting the ecological network, and that means lower levels and highest levels. And another one when one of the MPs mentioned what would happen in 15 years. My people so our consciousness and that's in it all positive, which is the consciousness of people growing when it comes to protecting nature. In 15 years, he'll be far higher than he was 15 or 20 years old. During that time, I am safe with both education and schools, but also with life and in general in this globalisation society, everyone else in the world became aware of the importance of nature conservation, how important it is for human survival at all. Well, we're not fools, so we're also aware of it, and it's certain that we'll do far more in the future than we're doing right now. We have plans, and so well was someone here... mentioned, also by declaring Neretva nature park, of course that mellioration is allowed and will be allowed. I wouldn't want to scare people now with something, there they'll be allowed, as in every park, to salt activities that, of course, and the law literally treats and explains, so this is a precious area. On the one hand, when it comes to the hotel, we have made it very clear, and it will be nothing, but when it comes to that detour we have also turned in time to the international community, the possibility of even detouring the stream of the river, before in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would cause enormous damage and the salanisation would naturally enter Neretva, there would be irreparable damage to the general area of this precious area, because it is also on the side of the Ramsar area which is under special protection, as you probably know. That's why I don't see those big fears, and I agree, well counsel Bernardic said, we have to help these people, we definitely have to deal with it. We don't have any of that, you see that map, there's all the way to Gajnica inside to the main road there are parts that are dragged in like a park of nature. They've already been a nature park for 30 years and I don't know how long. So it's about us wanting to make life easier for people, I think, so we all want it together. We're not on any different sides. We need to make life easier for people. Our representative from Bistra knows the situation very well, what the situation is, and therefore thinks that after this and with one serious approach, after this devastation, I hope it won't be any more, although it is a beautiful wish. Exceptions always happen, but together we'll all be much more careful and much more careful. Now the services are well organized, and thanks to that more than I have said since 2000, more of these devastations on ours than they were before. And I hope that the GUP will, of course, definitely solve these questions of the part that he's covering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17134	I thank the minister. Let's move on. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for coming personally, a very rare example in the Croatian government that when defending some proposals in front of the ministry, a personal minister comes and here is for every commendation. Secondly, the Medvednica is when we look at very few cities in the world has one such wealth, the world's capitals have such wealth that it's practically on the slopes of nature park that it's something you simply can't replace with anything. When I was a kid 20 years ago, when my parents took me to Medvednica, they told me, "It's the lungs of the city of Zagreb." And on that side when I watch this whole story, I'm a little sorry. We're reducing 22,000 acres to 17,000 acres. So about 5,000 acres of less protected area. It's practically 25% of what we had until the other day. And when it is said that this space will be compensated with something else, I agree if we are already brought into that situation that we have to compensate for a certain part of the space because it is already devastated or life is so, so made that things have to be legalized then I cannot accept as a Zagrebian that things are compensated as requested, said in this proposal, in some other parts. Because the Zagrebers will not benefit from that. I think we should make a greater effort to compensate this as it is said here in the Green area or that if possible, no matter what these are, I think we should make an effort to, in that part, make an expansion of Nature Park to make up those 5,000 squares on one side of the squares on the other side. So the entire park doesn't have a smaller surface. When we speak this law, or these boundaries of Nature Park, were founded in 1981 and what my colleague Bernardic said just before, and now the minister in his explanation life has written some other stories and life has in some way set up there, set some conditions that we simply cannot ignore. And I am also glad that the minister has now said that since 2000, a little tighter control of what is being built there and how it is being built and perhaps a colleague of Markovanovic should also know that, knowing that by 2000, enough has been done because of the inefficientness and construction inspection, that is, a lot of buildings and houses that should not be done. And in a situation where it was done normally that there was no choice but to help these people and that these people should be allowed to live normally, they and their families. And that's why, in this sense, both in the city of Zagreb and in some, and in some other acts, it was for the benefit of people. What concerns me is that Nature Park is just one of these six categories, or one of six categories, when we talk about protecting nature, protecting some space, and what worries me is that only 8.7% of Croatia is somehow protected from various different devastations, or legally impossible to do these things as in an area where this is not the case, and that in Europe we have an example that we are dealing with 15%. I think, as the minister said, the consciousness is growing every day, but that we must show as well as the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament that we are going, to go towards moving that percentage. So it's not 8 or 9 but it's 15, 20%. And on that side, I'm kind of, and I'm always sorry when we pass laws where the area that has been protected so far is no longer protected. Normally, here we are now saying it's about 30 to 40,000 people. They need help, and on this side I will support, or I will be restrained because no compensation has been made. If the second reading were to go on these changes in such a way that it would be compensated on the green side or to compensate Medvednica's space that it remains 22,000 squares instead of the west side to be on the east side in which case I would support the law because people need help. The situation should lead to some legalisation, but I will be restrained or I will not support the law if it is compensated through other parts of Croatia. I don't think the Zagrebers and the ones you mentioned in Gajnice, New Zagreb, will benefit from whether the area will be protected in other parts of Croatia if there is already the possibility of doing so within the framework of Medvednica. What I said means I wish I could talk to other generations like my family told me that, that Medvednica, that they were the City of Zagreb's lungs. It means that we are not reducing the city of Zagreb's lungs by 25% as we do with this law, but to keep the compensation on the green side of the lungs on the part they've been on so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17136	Thank you. And now we have one six replicas. Well, let's take it in a row. The first is Honorable Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Oh, here's a colleague of Maras just to remind you. Usually when declaring parks of nature and national parks is one of the phenomena is the forest since your secretary of state is also a fellow foresteer and why are they declared? That's why the forest profession has managed them well in the past, and now it's nice, and that's why we declare them nature parks or national parks. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't do that in private woods? For the simple reason that private forest owners are obliged to rule under the Law on Forests, which is required to have forest management programmes and thus to arrange them as well as with the assistance of forest professions and advisory services, which according to the Law on Forests is responsible for the management of forests of private forest owners. Thus, it can also be normally deforested today and a quality and beautiful forest that can also be included in the nature park. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17138	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade, you've noticed well, colleague Podnar, you've well noticed that it's not necessary. The law noted that it was private forests, which is no argument that it could not be declared a nature park. I've lived for a while, here's my colleague Vukic here in Ogulin, and I know there's also a lot of forests that are privately owned and where the forest service, i.e. the forest administrations control that area, and therefore there's absolutely no reason why it's an argument that would not spread the nature park to that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17140	Thank you. Before we go any further with the replicas, I'd like to ask the honourable MPs to stick to the subject. I didn't want to warn you until now. But here, please, let's stick to the subject, so I don't have to interrupt during the debate. Thank you. We have a further replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17141	It seems that the presence of Minister Roncevic suddenly gives rise to a desire to discuss parliamentary representatives on environmental issues, but that's good. Maybe next time there's a topic about protecting the sea, a minister should be brought next to the culture minister again. Because it doesn't matter what the occasion is, it is good to discuss these topics in the Croatian Parliament. Where are we gonna argue if not here? I'm glad you spoke of compensation. Well, the counsel club is looking to compensate these 5,000 ha if possible. Look, today the consciousness of people in the world is if you cut down one tree, you need at least one tree if you don't plant anymore, so we need to follow that logic. And one more thing. It was a pleasure to hear from Minister Bishop when he confirmed what I was talking about two, three years ago about the dangers of the upper horizons that the Prime Minister himself... I followed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a good thing we came to that position even though the danger to the lower Neretva flow still exists. As is the danger of the Lonjsko polje and this area along the Sava, including Spačvanske forest if that irrational project of construction of the Danube canal – Sava passes, and you yourself know how strong the lobbys that even within the government advocate for being smart and silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17142	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17143	Thank you very much. Comrade Pancic, you haven't noticed. It is not a concern that the minister is here or is not a minister here, but simply the Club of Representatives of the SDP does not want the area of the nature park, the lungs of the city of Zagreb to be reduced by 5000 square meters, or 25%. I'm sorry, hectare, I'm sorry. 25000 ha or 5,000 ha or 25% total surface area. And on the other hand, it is understandable that the SDP's Club of Representatives, which takes care of environmental protection and which is one of the most important things in action, has the need for this many debates and of course we want the public to hear us about it and hear us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17144	Thank you. Honorable representative Dragica Zgrebec, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17145	Thank you. So I would like to support in that part of my colleagues' exposure who said that compensation should be in the nearest area, so the area where compensation is reduced in the nearest possible area. The government, in its explanation, that is, the promoter says that these are private forests which are to be quoted by small natural values. I don't think we should explain it that way, because we have little protected areas like you said in your presentation. So we're just making decisions on different levels of nature protection from national parks, nature parks, protected areas. But we don't have enough surveillance, and because we haven't had enough surveillance, that's why we have this situation that we have to pass this law. I'll just say, for example, a protected area of the Mura River that was made a few years ago. It's in the area of my county, and actually there's no control. That's where the farm plantation is. Therefore, there should not be intensive agricultural production there. Therefore, I do not think that this should be explained by forests which are small natural values, but should make sure that owners, private owners in such areas, who or cannot deal intensively with certain activities, should be compensated for the income difference. So, or buy out such areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17146	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17147	Thank you very much, colleague Zgrebec. You have well noticed the situation, the situation that has arisen, and we cannot change it, we need to legalize it, but I understand this debate and all of this as one debate to help the minister find a proposal where at least one hectare will be more of nature park area than 5000 ha less. So how's that gonna work out? Whether it will be that small owners are compensated, whether it will also be that within the park nature there is the possibility of managing forests in their space I leave it to see relevant. But the intensity is to be one hectare higher, at least one hectare higher than 5000 ha less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17148	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17149	Dear Mr. Vice President, my colleague speaks of the Bear as the lungs of the city. And that is absolutely true and as the Government sees the care for the lungs of every Croat, every citizen of Croatia, which is commendable and that we will surely support there is no reason not to support then and the insistence and this debate in this sense that Zagreb has its lungs. . /. We've been taking care of the collectiveity, the community, and the parks, something that serves general use, and even if it doesn't have this message that a colleague was talking about, it has a different political message. We're reducing the space to the citizens, and it's inadmissible and it's a little bit, it's cramping there, it's biting here, and it's something that's inadmissible. All the big cities, all the metropolis have their own parks and these are places not only that represent the lungs of that particular city, but also places of activity, primarily civil activity. An explanation like this, which Dragica Zgrebec also spoke of giving up shopping in this eastern part of this area precisely because of the private forests of small value it carries a dangerous message. Here's why. Because the question is raised, so for the government it's not interesting to buy if it's small values, then the team could buy it before it can buy it, but it's still a construction zone, that these woods are small values we've given these private owners a message that they can freely then and tomorrow demand the declaration of that part of the construction, and we'll have enlargements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17150	Bring the end. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17151	... Someone's shutting me down all the time. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] My colleague Antičević-Marinović, you have well noticed, I am not only talking about the lungs of the city of Zagreb, i.e. about Zagrebers who have the privilege of having such a beautiful mountain above their city. I'm talking about that when we're already, I'd be praying maybe we can do it, here and the minister now specifically respond, if we've already gone to a reduction in a certain part of nature park, does it exist, because yet nature park is not the highest protected whole, is there any possibility that parts of the Medvednica are even more protected than it has been before? So, as far as we're concerned, the Medvednica is especially at our heart and ultimately, and this High House is very close to the slopes of Medvednica. So it's about protecting a certain part of the mountain in this way maybe increasing standards. I don't know, maybe become a national park, if that's possible. Here, I'd like one such brief review if the minister could tell me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17152	Thank you. And a replica, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17153	Thank you. Comrade Maras, somewhere at the beginning of your debate you found that, but like most people who are today, MPs and MPs who discussed nature park today, of course we all reasonably found that this more park is not a nature park anymore and that because of those and human and all other reasons it is necessary to do what we are trying to do today. And then I wonder why now this huge debate about something really has to be done, that part is no longer a park and that way we help people. Well first of all, let me say why I think this debate is needed and what, Mr. Minister, I agree with you, you said the consciousness of people is growing, but I would add the comma, unfortunately growing and unconsciousness of non-humans who will continue to do anything to try and in those parks of nature, but also in some other parts of our beautiful country that could be parks of nature, but we haven't protected them. Here's an example of a valley in Istria that's not a park of nature, but it's beautiful and it's breathing, and that's where we hit the factory. She's still working, a little stinky, people coughing, she's still working. And because it wouldn't work so much further, let's say the Park of Nature Ucka wouldn't experience this same situation as we have at Medvednica so we could start there slowly, to be an example of building, so one day in 15 years we're going to legalize it all again, which is why it takes this kind of debate and this kind of strong debate so that it doesn't happen anymore, that we have a system that's going to have this little country that we have protected really, really, but really, not just on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17154	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17155	Thank you very much. I agree with you, colleague Denona, you've noticed quite well. The point is that, here is the minister who said partly to Gajnica, Gracani up and these other small places, villages located under Medvednica, which have now been incorporated into Zagreb over the years, but of course it is no longer and cannot be a nature park that these things have to be arranged differently. And the fact is, I wouldn't say that people's consciousness is growing because some people's consciousness is growing, some people don't grow as you said, but society's consciousness is growing generally that standards must be higher, that this space is precious to us, that we need to protect it, and because the consciousness of certain people doesn't go in terms of the interests of the protection of natural resources, but in the interests of both capital and building and material things, we need to set things up to make the fly more effective than it is so far, and on the other hand we need to ensure that these services that protect nature park from devastation are more efficient. I have heard examples from the part where guard services simply cannot be handled because they do not have those powers that they might have when they find themselves in a situation where someone devastations that park and on the other hand that inspections that are competent must be controlled and prevented by any devastation of space at that moment, and not later because later very often things cannot change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17156	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17157	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I hope that today's debate on this bill actually points to a new trend in the Croatian Parliament to the increased importance of environmental protection and nature protection issues for a new sensitivity of a progressive party such as SDP towards this issue. However, the reason I responded to the replica is after you showed actually one commendation to the minister who, here he is today with us, showed some mistrust with his information on the numbers under the protected area in Croatia because you said that in Croatia there is 8.7% of the space under some form of protection, and the minister said in his address that 12% if I understood him well, so I hope that it does not indicate
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17158	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17159	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Holly, first of all, at the beginning of my debate, I thanked the minister for coming in person, and there it is seen that, with this amount of debate from the SDP's club and its presence, there is a common interest in protecting both HDZ and SDP. Unfortunately, until the second reading of the law, I hope that this will also be shown by the minister through the compensation of what the SDP advocates' club is looking for in the eastern part. And these data that are related means the data that has been presented in public, no one has ever denied them, that it is 8.7% of the protected area in Croatia. If it had been denied before, I'd probably have corrected that information. But what was said in public was never denied from the ministry, so I took that information as relevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17160	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17161	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I am extremely pleased that you have praised the coalition government of Prime Minister Racan, saying that in 2000 there is indeed increased protection and control of illegal construction at the level of Medvednica but also at the level of the Republic of Croatia. But you also said that as a compensation of these 5,000 hectares, you will reduce the area of Medvednica Park you can in the future compensate elsewhere. However, I do not breathe statistically at the level of all Croatia but statistically and actually breathe here in Zagreb in this assembly and lungs of Zagreb are on Medvednica and it would be good to really protect those lungs adequately. The reality is that this part of the Bear is devastated, probably irrevocable. However, it would also be worth protecting this part on the green side simply so that this law does not create a precedent that would attack other areas in the Republic of Croatia. We are witnessing, for example, the constant biting of Marian, just sail the boat there on the south side of Marijana, every year those buildings go more and more into the hill or there that ornithological reserve near Trogir, each year there is another gnaw of that reserve that disappears. Who's to blame? Probably not Racan's Government but those who allowed the urban institute of the Republic of Croatia to be destroyed as a central institution that ruled Croatian space but unfortunately fell as an innocent victim of privatisation and conversion and never again was established at the level of all of Croatia by such an institution that rules Croatian space as a whole. The institute continues to vegetation in private hands and from a respectable institution with more than 150 employees is now twenty. The scientific publicist is reduced to nothing, and the space is ruled unfortunately by stochastically at the level of county, cities or so on. It is encouraging that one day, State Secretary Ruzhinski said that the government is seriously considering the establishment of such an institution that would have a comprehensive control over Croatian space as well as the space of future nature parks, national parks, etc. We should really hurry by establishing new protected areas of nature and national parks, because unfortunately I read a World Bank report that predicts that somewhere around 2030 Croatian citizens will be only about 30% of the territory, everything else will be in foreign hands, and this 30 percent mainly refers to the areas of large cities and national parks and nature parks. Unfortunately, in this case, it is a complete capitulation of the rule of law in front of capital, large capital, I do not say this Government, but it is one process of capitulation of the Croatian state that lasts 20-25 years as long as it lasts. However, the fact is that nature parks according to the AISN category are the fifth of a total of six internationally recognised categories of protection. So it is a very low level of protection so that in nature parks it is allowed to build, quarry, hunt and cut forests, recreational and tourist activities, so it does not stand the thesis that due to the poor quality of the forest or private property compensation cannot be found on the south side of Medvednica. Unfortunately, to assume that if compensation does not occur during the very adoption of this law, it can be assumed that there is a reduction in both green areas and forests outside the park. Because capital is ruthless, he knows no limits. It is likely that the existing green areas that remain outside the park will be redesigned immediately as is the usual not only in Zagreb but also in other cities. This will likely devastate the sub-Semen zone even more. It is interesting, however, that the old Romans hesitated to build for various reasons on Medvednica or under Medvednica. They never thought of making a fort where Medvedgrad is today, even though it was a strategic fortress, they admired it, respected it, and even considered it a sort of deity. And in order to, here, purposely contribute to the patheticness and application to respect the requests of SDP MPs to consider the compensation of these 5,000 hectares in the Medvednica arena itself, so on the south side, I will read a quote from your book that your ministry supported was now issued in 2007, where writer Vladimir Gos describes the trip of the ancient Romans around 450 to Sljeme and says, "They were intoxicating forest strawberries and raspberries. The smell of forest shadows under the hat of fragrant pears, and with the scents and the lahor, now from this one from that corner. Now warm now fresh. But always happy and friendly. The forest spoke, whispered, crackled, whispered. That story was joined by the sounds of scissors and bodies that rushed through leaves and grass, and they were titrated by birds’ crickets. Those even cadences would get some loud and hiding screams. He would come either above or behind the green covers that were titrated with gold in the sun. The beams were breaking through that shiny nettle, and behind them were the dim cups. All that life dancing, shaking, calling deeper, deeper into my world. It's inconceivable how many lives have been poured into such a tiny space as the one that includes the sense of a human being in the woods." Dear Minister, I ask you to work with your authority to make compensation for the people of Zagreb's lungs and prevent one extremely dangerous precedent, not only in the vicinity of Zagreb, but also at the level of the entire Croatia, and to show the people of Europe and the Croatian population that Croatia is really seeking this border, the magical border of 15% and more protected natural area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17162	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. It is the honourable representative Krešimir Gulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17163	Well, I have to correct my colleague Franic who said there was a state capitulation. So I'd say Mr. Franic, there was a capitulation there in the '60s, '70s. When 12 quarrys were opened in Medvednica Nature Park, 12 of those twelve eight were shut down, four were still active. It was the capitulation of the state in the '60s and '70s when they opened the quarrys. As for the expansion of the new green side. I have to ask you, I don't know how many known nature park Medvednica and the area that covered it and which was spoken here in the proposal, but unfortunately this herbal side is as built as the one we're talking about now, i.e. which is now here with this bill of law we're going to extract from the current park.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17164	Thank you. And we have two. No, the correction. Nothing. We're going to the replicas now. Now you'll have a chance to answer. Dear Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in your speech, you mentioned the gnawing of nature parks, the gnawing of protected areas and the increasingly frequent devastation of the environment, and I was offered what the esteemed minister said, and it is related to the national ecological network. Croatia is a country with one of the smaller populations in Europe and that is our advantage. And the fact is that even in this process, it's much easier to protect certain parts of the field than in countries that have much more population, and that's good. However, the national ecological network that has been established and that we welcome, to this day and to a very small extent, has experienced practical protection on the ground, which is what is most important. So it's not just enough to expand the nature park and protected area, but at the same time it's a task for all of us here, but also for competent institutions to ensure adequate protection on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17166	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17167	It is true, Mr. Bernardic, that the rule of law in Croatia has capitulated as I said 30 years ago, so I agree with you, and this was not a correction to the wrong assumption, because I simply said it was a continuous capitulation. However, the only fight against it is the functioning of the rule of law, constant control and good, unique, smart management of space. Therefore, consideration should be given to re-establishing an urban institute at the level of the Republic of Croatia that would unite all spatial plans and manage space as it seems in the countries of developed democracy in the European Union and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17168	Thank you. And a replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17169	Thank you. You yourself know that many people are not in the interest of such an institute being there, because then they wouldn't do what they're doing today. And when it is said that the state has capitulated in front of large capital and the interests of individuals who are high in the political spheres of power, that's how it is. We see the Adriatic coast and the concreteization that's in place. Let us take an example of Brač and what is done there under the law and nothing to anyone. We will always find an excuse that this progress requires some kind of sacrifice, but when we talk here, when the minister is talking about compensation, of course, it is now just an excuse to compensate elsewhere, not on the other side of Medvednica, but in some other areas of Croatia. I'm afraid of this national environmental network, and from the 40 locations listed in the threat assessment for sure more than half of these locations are said to be high-risk or risky. So what do we compensate for there? What are we going to compensate for on Mljet? What do we compensate for on Plitvice Lakes? And somewhere we need to find some new areas to compensate for. And as things stand now, under this pressure of capital with the full support of this government, we will only be left to protect the Lastovo Islands, Lastovo, possibly Vis. It'll be the last line of defense now, unless we do something urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17170	The replica means something to say about it, so I think No, I don't. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] You didn't listen then, then you did something else. ... Dear Representative Franic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Please, without throwing it at you, you have no right. [[Intruder: Mr. Jarnjak be police fair and correct.]] When you get the word, you'll be able to speak. He's got the word "respectful Mr. Franic."
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17171	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17172	Your Honor, I'd like you to count yourself in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17173	I forgot to count myself in the heat. So, this whole situation around this law, since it actually refers to one state of things that is as irreversible as it is, we could say, but there was a very public debate, the support of civil society associations, but it seems to me exactly as if that is why, because they would all be like the SDP club who advocates compensation now and immediately, and not in some undefined future in some undefined location. It should be pawned, fought and fought for compensation within the Medvednica itself, Nature Park "Medvednica", because it allows the Zagrebans the quality of life we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17174	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate, individually. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. They said more than that, says the song. Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a good spirit, our good minister trusts in consciousness and in the ecological evolution of people's consciousness in order to preserve what's left in the future. This time it refers to Nature Park West Medvednica. I am from Slavonia, but I see these people from Zadar speak, so I can talk about the Bear. We have tomorrow or the day after tomorrow or these days and the law on smoking bans in closed rooms, and here we are, according to these data that were excavated and these materials actually amputated the upper lobe of the left lung of the City of Zagreb. Namely, the Nature Park "Medvednica" is clearly and loudly said by 22,000 and 800 hectares fell by 5,000 hectares. About 35,000 inhabitants in 41 settlements were inhabited in the area. I would like this bill on amendments to the law, etc. In fact, he called upon the bill of law in the western part of Medvednica. Why has such a strong settlement occurred, let's also take that social moment that my colleague Bernardic spoke of, is not here, and where he showed his social sensitivity to the people who settled there, why, for example. There was no settlement on the move, let's say Gračac-Bruvo-Mazin where there are 50 houses at 45 kilometers. And it's a beautiful terrain. It's a beautiful part of our beautiful. The mold of the slopes of the Pleishica, the forest. I've also seen the hunting ground of a Sibenik society up towards Lapca, etc. 50 houses have a total in the area, I counted them, following the car on that road last summer. Well, because Zagreb is economical soft and because Zagreb is a metropolis in any case, Zagreb needs the city's lungs. We always said it was Medvednica, and I wouldn't be surprised that because of some of the things that are precisely about the change in my name of this law, the bill, there's not a fairy coming soon with the Altar Homeland with the pool, etc. By listing this material, it would first refer to the means necessary for the implementation of the law. It is 600 thousand kuna to change the removal of 70 tables and place 150 new tables, which would mark the Park of Nature Western "Medvednica". Four thousand kuna one board. That's it. I think that illegal construction is actually a defeat or recognition, that is, this bill is a recognition of the painful recognition of the defeat of law and legality, of all the inspections involved in construction, of all the inspectorates, and then what follows behind the inspectorate is the judiciary. Will similar things occur in other areas? Here, with us in Slavonia, someone mentioned it seems to me that Papuk, national park, hunting grounds etc., and will not, will not come especially in those areas where the economic situation is such that there are actually no interested in building houses or urban areas, let alone in the forests and mountains of ours. It's the bear that's attractive, and I think behind this social moat that someone's crying out here, there's actually a hidden legalization of the wild building of the great fairies on the edge of this nature park. It's a recognition of definitely devastation of this area by the principle of a finished act. In addition to the fact that there are in our country all institutions, all inspectorates and all possible instances that have done their job responsibly certainly, I may believe that there would be no reduction to this extent in the surface of this nature park. So I'm asking, is there anyone responsible for that? The park of nature shrunks from 22 to 17 grand and was bitten by a donkey wolf. It seems to me that in some of these provisions it also pleases those who built it there I don't talk about those social cases, I'm talking about fairies in order to ban further construction and perhaps they remain at peace of beautiful and pleasant nature as Mr Franic recited, or read Roman, a quote from Roman times for 5 centuries seems to me so. So this actually legalizes it and there won't be any neighbors or anyone to interfere with those who actually settled there illegally and will now enjoy what Mr. Franic has translated so beautifully from Latin somewhere, etc. Quoting at this debate today. How do you get to this? I said at first the good spirit of our good minister. Here's what I say responsibly. That's how I experience it, and that's how citizens experience it, at least in that environment that I know of. Is it possible to increase the area, green areas or parks of nature, national parks and everything that belongs to the categories of protected areas in the Republic of Croatia? Can I declare myself new areas? So, areas that aren't now covered, and there are. I may be at first quite accidentally, and perhaps on purpose said this one area which in the eastern person is truly beautiful and should be protected. It is a border area towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is truly beautiful. It has Croatia given the number of inhabitants, it is rarely populated or poorly populated country actually. It's falling into that category. In fact, 4 and a half million inhabitants per 55, 56,000 square miles is actually not a dense population at all. Clearly, then, we cannot operate where someone will settle. We cannot manage human fates, but certainly there are still such natural resources where, in quite a small investment and administration, parks of nature, national parks, etc. As for Zagreb and the western part of Medvednica, I think the matter is over, there is no more help. Whether on the east side of a colleague who knows the green part well and says it is already inhabited and slightly devastated can also be expected to expand to the east side of Medvednica. But then let's conclude that one really rigorous measure, that Mr. Secretary has called for consciousness, but I would also call on the repressive apparatus. In this case because it is our metropolis, our capital, the Croatian capital, that it really is so, that in 10 years we don't have to redefine the park, the border of nature in some area of 12,000 ha. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17176	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And the esteemed representative, John Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17177	I thought actually through the replica or in some other way to get involved in the debate and give support to the proposal of this law since I come from Zagorje, which is the western part of Medvednica and then I will begin with one correction of the wrong quote of all those and also fellow Maras who are not presently, and there you are. Thank you. That they are the lungs of the city of Zagreb. Knowing the rose winds, unfortunately, that's not true. The lungs are the cities of Zagreb only if the Zagrebs walk through Sljeme, because the southwest winds carry that air towards Zelina and Dugi Sel and other eastern parts, and in summer when they blow the north winds then Sljeme is without leaves and brings nothing but cold. In winter, I'm sorry. This topic is interesting for all areas. Unfortunately, our interest comes down quite often around the metropolis and this debate if someone had, that some other areas on the agenda would not have been so harsh and engaged. Some of our colleagues and colleagues in the debate pointed out that. The fact is that this is the most attractive area in Croatia. The metropolis is happening in Croatia, as is the case for both Hungary and some others under the quotes of small countries. At the same time, however, we turn thousands of hectares of land into deserts in terms of the population, and into rain forest or chicars in terms of the natural environment. And that means that we one day, and that is if we can put on the agenda as soon as possible a multidisciplinary debate between the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Agriculture. Because there are devastations in existing quality forests. I can give an example of Zabocani and Zagorci of famous forests of Kulmerica near Bračak Castle, today's new hospital where Croatian forests under the sanitary candle company have devastated by not replacing the plantation area. Anyone who has learned the economics of forestry knows that forest management is not an absolute protection against cleaning, cutting or other use of forests, but is also a sanitary candle made by both those fire roads and the like. So when we talk about this law, I don't consider it a matter of the rule of law. You can always put it, but accepting one fact that at a given moment at the adoption of the law were made miss that, not taking care of the real state as the esteemed colleague Gulic said. On the other hand, the entrances and devastation of the area by wild construction, but also by the fact that what is mentioned today around the quarry, counterpart Gulić said the highways of Sljemen County were built from that stone from Medvednica. The city of Zagreb is also being built. The facilities and water protection around Zagreb were built with that stone. And I'm not dealing with that fact unless those quarrys are properly rescheduled. But now we continue to make a mistake. In the parts of the quarry that have been turned into terraces, it has begun to greenen suddenly there have been subsequent exploitation permits and these quarrys have become active again. It's a matter of inspection. And that's why I've been hoping through and I hope still that the pooling of inspections implies that we'll do better and better quality surveillance of everything that's going on in the space. Whether urban building or in this natural. And when I talk about it, I will repeat one thing that I said to Minister Dropulic that the amendments to the law on local self-government should be incorporated, but in the laws it covers that our communal directors become auxiliary building inspectors. It will also be a function of protection and nature-protected facilities, protection against urban devastation but I will say something which is the pragmaticity of our self-government site, which is that we will also protect the revenues and budgets of cities and municipalities because and where it is built according to spatial plans, detailed plans but is being upgraded past the building permits or now the confirmation of the main project is running away from the municipal compensation and some of them use that space to actually damage local self-government, in this way the state. Auxiliary inspectors would not have the authority as inspectors but could prevent and inform, in time, of the phenomena observed in the area where the competent institutions must then take their own measures. And by repeating what is said, I support this law but by calling on both local self-government and the ministry to do more together in those areas where these are not areas of protected nature. I can talk about Zagorje and the parts of Zagorje that absolutely deserve such status and find the scale of sustainable development that this space lives, that people in it live because of Sljeme without people, Medvednica without people will become a jungle. The forest is not an adequate protection or adequate space for people. And so I think that in this approach to sustainable development, we need to find this balance between people who need to live with the level of culture and housing standards that are suitable for the 21st century but at the same time with maximum protection from draining and treatment of wastewater. Once again we thank the opportunity to communicate here with the Honorable Minister and I repeat I will support the proposal of this law and I also hope that by the second reading there will be some of the useful suggestions that we have made today in the debate included in the proposal finally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17178	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17179	Mr. Vice President, given that a colleague in his initial part of the exhibition said that what is actually replicating to me in some way in connection with the lungs of the city of Zagreb, as well as winds and roses and winds that are not favourable to the city of Zagreb, I would say that not only are the winds of those who are winding and bringing, contribute to the fact that the winds are the lungs of the city but also forest wealth where forests exploit and exploit carbon dioxide and products of oxygen. That's what matters. And this is the Western Medvedina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17180	Thank you. You didn't answer? Nothing? It's all right. I'm asking, it's mine to ask. And a replica of the esteemed representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17181	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow sustainable development yes, however, if the growth limits are already reached or even crossed, which I think is the case here then I think we must take a little more drastic measures and we cannot be satisfied only with the recognition of the existing situation without doing anything that would be in step to compensate that space on another side and in a location near the city of Zagreb. Therefore, they cannot agree with even some predecessors that this compensation cannot be made on the herbal side.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17182	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. It is worth the initiative to essentially consider how to resolve the fate of 30,000 people who have somehow tied their lives to that area. And the question is, how did these 30,000 people create living conditions in a protected space? And probably when we go back to the past part of it might be our faulty assessment, so we included something where people were already present. So we were not aware of the weight of such a decision because under one impression we had a way to protect nature and we forgot about people. So I'd say it's not just a devastation that has occurred during these years of decision on a protected part of nature, but it's probably also a slightly misdetermined decision. Because more and more problems occur at national parks and nature parks. So we had to choose to protect nature, and I would say the fates of the people, however, because of the many ways we had to opt for the fate of the people. And regardless of the weight of everything that's been going on now, there's always the question, can we somehow compensate for that? And it's evident that in all this debate we're trying to say let's try to compensate. Therefore, regardless of what we estimate that some areas that could join the Nature Park are worse quality, unquality forests or I don't know what, I think that the suggestion and conclusion of this debate by the SDP Club will also be to try to really make a decision, to damage privates for these unquality forests or less quality forests, and let us make a commitment to the Croatian forests to try to create different conditions in these areas and that they invest in this park and get some quality compensation. Therefore, I would say the devastation, and also the once-determined border band, let's not solve with cuts, but let's try to settle with commitments. Obligations from the budget to damage privates who are there and I would tell the obligations towards the Croatian forests to try to give us back, I would say, part of that park and in some way to be satisfied with the solution. So here's my debate, too, that maybe until the second reading we try to solve it right now because then I would say the quality of this decision will be greater. We've solved the problem of people, and at the same time we haven't reduced the protection... Nature. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17184	Thank you. Dear Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17185	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would first of all look back at this part of this law that talks about the Nature Park Medvednica in that part that I think is kind of confusing. It's about the law that was passed in '81. We've had a limit that's been established in writing relatively simple, so now I don't read to you all that together, how the border was established, and even forested in the nature park, while now we're in a situation that this, as I can see for the first time, we actually have a topographic map situation that is an integral part of this law. Since none of us can see anything at all on this map, then it's very interesting that part of the written explanation that I've given me, and I've consulted a little bit about this law, I've consulted experts, which means the geodetics that helped me with these turns, then the transition, the stream, and then also that part that says that it's turning in the direction of the northeast, and in the length of cca 130 meters, following the western edge of the forest, and then how is it listed here if I can further quote the county road 224 through St. Matthew in the length of 2350 meters, all of this together, in fact, I kind of think he's hiding one big trap and we're in a situation today that we're talking about nature park, except that I can generally call on this to be one of the situations in which we're giving up protecting nature park, we're withdrawing from all those who have entered that nature park, and I'm not sure that these particles are as much as I'm told they're not being done and granted to how it was possible for whom it suits. While we're in the old '81 law. In fact, you had a situation where it was actually generally given you can see here if you and the layman that all of these pointing particles and so on when it would be drawn on this topographic map on which we can't actually see absolutely anything, then you would see that this line goes in a way that is prepared as it would possibly fit just for those who are interested in entering the nature park and today they are in a much more favourable situation than this new law will bring them. Second thing I have to say about this compensation. So far we have heard a story that the protected nature park should in some way remain the city's lungs, so it's impossible to compensate the Zagrebers whose lungs are the city, compensate it in a way to expand some nature park on Velebit or on Lastovo or something like that. Therefore, the only way out and again I don't think there's any need to give up on protected areas should be in this section, so according to Zelina, which I think is a logical continuation of the story in protecting Medvednica Nature Park. I must say that the adoption of this law that changes the situation and which, with approximately 600,000 kunas, will actually be possible by assembling these features and so on, I repeat not solve the issue of the protection of the Park of Nature Medvednica, nor will the regime of use be able to secure itself in this park and I think that the basic intention of the law is, however, to withdraw from all those who entered the park, who today-to-morrow really need both municipal connections and so forth, but that it cannot be compensated anywhere else, but only in another part of the territory as it does in construction land. Namely, those who know how the spatial planning system works at this time, then know that cities must not have construction areas, that is, a percentage is established, and that is exactly where the situation is solved if the construction zone is increasing to 30%, it must also be downloaded on the other side, and that is why I think that the solution to the expansion of the park is for at least these 5,000 hectares in this section that goes towards Zelina and that it actually stops this intense and inappropriate construction. I think it's an area that can protect the lungs of the City of Zagreb. Also, in the end, it would only mention that, in my opinion, it is a question of nature parks in Croatia, and that is what the Ministry of Culture is in some way a force that needs to protect it all together, the question is how much it is possible to implement it because, namely, we are witnessing the situation that we have in other environments, and I hope that this is as precise as it was done here for the Medvednica with similar spins, meaning that the exact indication of cadastrian particles and similar things will be done in other nature parks that we have in the Republic of Croatia. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17186	Thank you. Honorable representative Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17187	Although repeating is the mother of wisdom, I will not repeat in my individual debate what I said when I spoke on behalf of the SDP club, and I will not repeat what my colleagues have said so far in their very quality discussions. I'm actually going to look back at what you ministers mentioned when you were talking about increasing actually the percentage to 12 and something. What? ... Exactly 12% means protected areas in the Republic of Croatia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I suppose that 12% of the protected areas of the Republic of Croatia are also entering these 5 hectares within the Nature Park Medvednica which will now actually be left out of the borders of nature parks, which means that this percentage will in principle soon be two months after we have a second reading. I hope that you will appreciate our remarks that went in the direction that meaning compensates for it on the other side of the park, but we must be in some way skeptical and assume that you may not respect it, but it means that we will no longer have 12% of the protected area, but we will still have something less than 12%, I don't know how much in total numbers you can be, but yet a certain percentage is. I welcome, in any case, as well as my colleague Maras, your presence here today and it makes me extremely happy in principle and especially our today quality debate on this problem and in fact I see this whole situation as one call for dialogue. When you spoke after a number of discussions today during the debate, you said everything that we agree on, and that's why I don't see a great reason why you wouldn't consider the possibility of compensating those 5,000 acres from the other side means existing boundaries of nature park. In this sense, here it is, I appeal to a large number of organizations, especially the largest Environmental Protection Association in the area of the City of Zagreb, which is "Green Action" to really consider this case and to add that area to the second reading. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17188	Thank you. Dear Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17189	Dear Mr. Vice President, when we talk about Medvednica Park, we cannot forget its health potential, it is long ago known that in the area of Medvednica, depending on the time when any government in these areas was built different sanatoriums, so we have today a sanatorium in Brestovac which was one of the largest sanatories in the time of the Austro-Hungarian region where patients outside Croatia came to be treated. Thus, already at the time, Medvednica was known as one of the very important and very valuable parts of Zagreb which was not as big as it is now. Nature parks themselves are something that Croatia needs to protect and care for because it is definitely in the world that urbanization will in itself lead to nature parks especially in areas with large cities slowly disappearing. We're also aware of that, because just to point out that we fought a year ago to turn part of Medvednica Park from the green zone into an urban zone. Now, not a year behind that, we come to the other side of the scale where these green areas we fought for, we turn into a building zone, no matter what we realize the city is expanding and it needs to be expanded, it's just a question of where. Now we're bordering the road, so it's like a fire. As you know, when the fire comes, then some road is a natural border from which you put out the fire, but you also know that in the fire we have bangs, pine cones flying across the road and burning the woods behind the road. So the question is how long after we'll be across that road that's some sort of park of nature again we'll get construction in Medvednica Park and then we'll say again in about four or five years, so well that's now urbanized, let's move another border and we'll probably get somewhere a little bit below Sljemen especially knowing what capital is and how capital passes and skips barriers and laws and everything else so it's only to be expected when someone from the tycoon will make a cottage at about a thousand feet high so that it has a nice view of Zagreb. The minister's head is spinning, but it's not something that's not possible. I also think that with this law goes hand in hand to those who did not comply with the law and worked in red and it is a characteristic of unfortunately in Croatia to build something that would not be possible in Europe at all to build a house without a building permit in a green belt. Now we amnesty whether because of those who did it out of necessity, they had some kind of little pay, so they built their own house because they didn't have anywhere else, or because some people who had a lot of resources bought those green areas, built houses on some, and now with this we give them relatively large funds in their pocket. I think this should have been proposed by this law in some way and explained and told the citizens of Croatia, we enter the Nature Park Medvednica, we enable construction and allow that square that was a few euros will come somewhere in practically over 100 or 200 euros squares so that some will make a very good profit by this law. And I say, I hope that I will not witness that after a few years we will find another road that will then be our natural border towards the City of Zagreb and I think that the City of Zagreb should spread to the other side and not to Medvednica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17190	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17191	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. A lot of MPs here thanked the minister for being here, and I think that shows one of our longings for the ministers to be with us when we talk. Don't take this as irony, but as a matter of fact, I'm joining those who are satisfied and that you are here and it would be good for the ministers to really be there when talking to no one who represents the Government, I think it's one conversation where it's necessary to be the most responsible people from the government when talking to parliamentary deputies. Tonight's topic is certainly one of the topics that engulfs essentially what you might call a generic or native being of man, so basically the very existence of man as a natural being. We are often politicians here, so we reduce man to this social dimension only, because what is called a social being is called politics, etc. So all we're talking about is social phenomena. We often ignore that nature is, for example, a conditionally inanimate part of man, but that we are part of nature and that we live in one unity and that when this unity violates that we question the existence of man himself. I'd paraphrase here a great philosopher named Niche, Friedrich Niche you all know him, he said that a man is an imperfect animal just alluding to how a man doesn't live in harmony with his nature while an animal does it. So much more perfect in that sense than human. A man owns his existence by destroying nature, he appears as an important violent being to himself at the time he appears as a bully towards nature. To simplify that, we live in one community, in one country, and otherwise I agree with everything you said here when you went out for a pay phone and I think we can find a common word, that's what someone mentioned, to the common interest. That interest is called man. So, I'm from Split, otherwise let's say I'm a Splician fetish, but I live almost half my life in one way or another in Zagreb. Largely in Zagreb, starting with the studies, after the graduate work in the Parliament, etc. In Split we have Marian, like the park forest, which we all experience very emotionally, etc., but if you imagine her as a piece of cheese then those mice who eat that cheese appeared. Those mice aren't the same mice that bite the Bear. They're a little richer mice, a little tighter, and a little better situation. It's about some elite or quasi elite, whatever you want, but the fact that by changing some urban plans, we've made it possible for these mice or cats, I don't know what to call them, or some other creature of God, which has become very rich overnight, and it's been rich before just because one sentence has changed into one of the acts at the city level. So today you can starve, so today you can go to Marjana you have, before it was forbidden to say that apartments are being built, etc., there have been some redundancies, I wouldn't be talking about names or last names, it happened a second before the repurpose, so it was being sold and it was making millions of kunas by one stroke of feathers. This is about a different situation. I'm experiencing a bear, but when it comes to these changes as one intervention that this social character, what Marjan doesn't have, when it changes. So it's 31 thousand people most of whom, at least as far as I know, don't belong to that tycunized to say, the tycoonised layer of our society, but it's about quotes of ordinary citizens and certainly needs to be looked after for some reality. Here many have said that water, electricity, infrastructure, etc. should be brought in. And that's all a fact. What I would like to appeal to as most of my colleagues is that they really try, to try to find a way to compensate, to compensate for that part with some of the other parts that will not endanger anyone in this social sense, and they will allow us to preserve those areas by which Croatia can still be proud to have them, we are still a country that, unlike many other countries, has a somewhat significant intimate nature, and so let's just say indivisibility has proved to be an advantage in some sense. We didn't destroy it, we managed to destroy it all. But we're trying very hard. So I appeal to you, seeing you as a man who has a sensitivity for it, as a man who, and with what he said, speaks in good faith, to try to see together what and how. So it's about Zagreb which is a city that can be praised for still having what it has, what many other cities in the world don't have, but some have. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17192	Thank you. And distinguished representative Biserka Vranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17193	Mr. Vice President, thank you, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say, today we've really said a lot about birds chirping, broiling streams and plant protection, and so we talked a little bit about the man. Personally, I think Zagreb, although it will soon be a million-dollar city, has enough green areas, enough parks and enough places to serve as the city's lungs and give citizens a quality life. Personally I come from the Park of Nature Žumberak Samoborno Gorje and I know that life in the Nature Park is often difficult and falls under a special regime that those who do not live in such a regime do not understand or think it is all wonderful, wonderful and wonderful. So I would like to advocate that we should not now go too far into the history of why it happened, but probably with our guilt, all together and the failure of the system and our state, I think that a better solution is to regulate relations, arrange certain opportunities, communally equip all of this area, and in some way in the future stick to some letter of law and protect what is really to be protected. In anything, we don't need to go too far in this either, because Croatia is a country that has a lot of healing areas, areas where the human leg can't get in yet, because it's really too small and the space will be enough, and people won't be there and then we'll have a lot of parks and we'll have a lot of people, and that's why I'm a supporter of what's legalized today and that makes it possible for all those who live in the park, outside of the park or in the wider area. I think that's the only way, because we have to say that we haven't always had such laws that would raise both the environmental and other awareness of all citizens at the level that are today, and that is why we have to bear certain consequences for all the moves we made 10, 20, 30 or more years ago. I absolutely think it's necessary to protect what needs to be protected, but I think a man must be first in all cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17194	Thank you. That concludes the debate, and I ask the Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, Bozo Bishop, to take his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17195	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I thank you all for this very serious debate, and it is well said, well that we talked about it, but there are some things I want to mention when it comes to nature park itself, Agent Linic probably has some experience, so he detected it in the right way. When it was '81. the year declared Nature Park Velebit, and yet there are some such parks of nature in Croatia, they have your border line as between Chad and Libya. That's one straight line. There's a lot of people on their lot half of them are in the park, half of them aren't in the park. And at that time it was thought of, it was probably taken up in some kind of office and pulled a line. There are such cases, of course, in Slavonia and if we do not approach the correction, there will be still such need to correct such boundaries that are completely unnatural, because those people share in their plots and their houses. Some people pass through the house, half of them are in a park of nature or even in a national park, and half of them are out of it. So and then, you see here, it's mentioned that 22 thousand people came into that park of nature, and it came into that way that someone didn't think and did not draw that line in such a way that people who already live, especially these old settlements, gave them a chance, but simply included them at that time, so that this poetic talk about the lungs of the city, I agree with that, although all the parks in the city itself are also the lungs of the city and I know what the town meant, I understand that for this town and for all those who were once suffering from tuberculosis and did not make that spa is not built on Sljemen itself, because it's certainly healthy for the Sljemen to live either, or to heal, but we have to take into account the fact that today, we don't have 5 thousand acres of this nature park, because there live people, there are those houses. Among the 22,000 that we inherited before it was declared, it was not a concern then as it is led and we tried really honestly, we care very much that you have to, I will not now praise the Ministry of Culture but that the government in general cares, care and these 4% increase it is huge, these are thousands of hectares that have been increased only in 4 years. We are very concerned, especially in contact with the International Community on the protection of nature. We care about being part of the world, but to be better than the world, to protect like I said here 46%, i.e. with parks and national parks, when we separate that eco-net from 36%, which is still 16% more than in Europe's most advanced country, because we know how much Croatia is worth, we know how much it really is worth, by these resources of nature protection, because that's why tourists will come here and bring their money. And when I say culture and nature protection in the service of the tourism economy, it's a fact, it's very important to that. That's why I thank you, but I only wanted to, because I see that you've arrived so I'll say on the way when you said about this beautiful face I'll poetically as mentioned here, tell the pearl Croatian, say that they exist in Lica, it is protected 53% of the territory of Lika-Senj County protected. If there were two national parks, northern Velebit and Plitvice, there is a Park of Nature "Velebit" and one part even of the national park, was my State Secretary, Director of Paklenica, also belongs in that part of Lika. So it's really where it comes from when it comes to protecting very difficult. Here one of his colleagues mentioned the same as to strengthen himself on the Medvednica itself to strengthen protection. There are six special reserves in this great park called Medvednica. It's the one between the national park and the nature park that's even stronger in that protection. So I understand this discussion, and I understand that sometimes it has to be said that everything has failed. The fact is that the government has done very much, the fact is that the Ministry of Culture has accepted this job of nature when we have already been tasked with protecting it as well as cultural heritage in the best possible way. The fact that we were able to increase, that's why I said when the Medvednica began to be mastered, from 2000 to 2000, then people settled, kept and started to watch out for themselves no longer being built. Thank you for your discussion and for your experiences with Žumberk. It's true that sometimes even citizens don't accept all these bans... Especially in the park, the national park. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A tree falls he must wait while it strings. No touching. And it's not always easy for people. That is why we can and should protect everything that is to protect in Croatia, but we must count on people to live somewhere and have to work and put that chance on them. Surely we have plans, I just mentioned one of these, it's Neretva, it's one big area that we're going to go, we're already starting classes, the State Department is going with an explanation like we did on Lastovo himself before we protect people have to accept it. If people don't accept it, then it will happen, unfortunately, that what happened on Vranski Lake, that someone burns down the habitat at night and burns down the habitats of precious, irreparable damage. But if people accept it and we do it, and we try to do it, then these people will look after it, and they'll benefit from it, and it'll contribute some value. There's a reason why we brought it out very openly, the fact is that we don't have those 5,000 squares anymore, because we don't live them anymore. It wasn't us who now lived here who cut them off, but over the last 30 years they've been cut off. He kept somebody biting or some people were already... Twenty-two thousand of these new ones, there's no one in these parcels we haven't helped anyone in that way, but it's generally a fact that's what it is, unfortunately in a big city. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope that the firm hand and good governance now the park will no longer allow such devastations, that will be in time intervention, that municipal services and those who deal with destruction in time will bring down such objects, but what is now, it's so much, it's so built that it's impossible. It's a fact that we have to, I'm not going to say that we can accept if we had a good will, and you hear me, we've brought it out very openly, very openly here in front of this High House and we hope that in some way it will find understanding. When it comes to those forests, maybe a little bit of notes that aren't worth it, here when it comes to value, it's being said that it's a small nature of value, not that it's small. They have a value, commercial in it, not in this explanation of the law any word at all. Well, I think I'm almost there. I still want to say something. We've had big debates. We have accepted almost all the objections of the local population, and that is why we are here to talk to people, and that is why we are all doing this job for the benefit of citizens. We have accepted almost all the remarks and included them in this bill. So, I think it's me, that's where they say they won't. I'm an optimist. Believe me, he will. New generations come, we educate in parks, education schools, educate the whole world how important nature conservation is, how important environmentalism is. All of us have made far progress together, and our children will be very concerned about it, and no longer will anyone understand. The one who doesn't understand will be, he won't mean to understand it, but everyone will be taught how to protect nature for the future. We're not in a position to deal with it lightly, it's very important to us. Like cultural heritage and natural heritage, it is very important and important for our country and our people. These are our values that we must preserve, because these are the values for which someone will come to this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17196	I would like to thank the Honorable Ministers. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow morning we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda of the draft law on the Railway Safety Agency, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 154. Have a good night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-01-0.u17197	Fourth. Proposal for a law amending the law on the declaration of the western part of Medvednica to Nature Park, first reading, P.Z. No. 140. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. First. The proposal for a law on the declaration of the western part of Medvednica is adopted by nature park. Second. Any objections, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final preparation of the law. Who's for these conclusions please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Against, yes, against, against. Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes; 79 for and 31 abstentions are accepted by this Law on the declaration of the western part of the Medvednica Park of Nature. Anyway, we now have a chance to coordinate all this and discuss it, right? Thank you very much. We move to: - Final proposal of the Law on the Railway Safety Agency, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 154 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and by the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure. Mr Branimir Jernejic. Here you go.
