ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10352	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm opening a session. We are continuing to discuss the motion for a decision to appoint the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. - Proposal for a decision to appoint the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is the Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Pursuant to Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and of the Council are to be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union and in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union, and in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union, and in the Official Journal of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 thereof, The Ombudsman law for people with disabilities was implemented by You received the reports at the session. The secretary of state at the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10353	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you a proposal for a decision to appoint a lawyer with disabilities. For the first time in Croatia, and the basis of the Law on Advocates for Persons with Disabilities introduces the Institute of Advocates for Persons with Disabilities. In the meaning of Article 25. The Law on Advocates for Persons with Disabilities and the basis of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 14 February 2008 the Government of the Republic of Croatia issued a public call for the application of a candidate or candidate for the appointment of an Advocate or Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. The public invitation was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Croatia "National Journal" No. 20 of 15 February 2008 and in the daily papers "Vjesnik", "Vecernji list", "Free Dalmatia", "Novi list" and "Vlas Slavonia" all since 19 February 2008 with a deadline for submission up to eight days from the day of publication. 11 applications for a public call have arrived within the deadline. After careful consideration of all candidates of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a meeting held on 24 April 2008 set out the Proposal for a Decision to appoint Anka Slonjašak as the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. Here it should be made clear that this is a proposal from the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Ms Jadranka Kosor, as chairman of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities for which she has received support from all members of the Commission. Mrs. Anka Slonjšak was born in 73rd in Düsseldorf, Germany and graduated from elementary and high school in Zagreb and graduated from the Faculty of Economics in 1998 with a two-year interruption due to her health. She had a great sports career and stood out as a member of the junior handball team of Croatia. Unfortunately, the sports career was interrupted by a car accident in 1992 at two years and the study was interrupted during that time. In a car accident, there was a spinal cord injury and there was a result of tetraplegia. After the accident, she decided to continue her education and successfully completed her studies, hired and involved in the work of associations dealing with the problems of people with disabilities. For several years, she led projects, personal assistant preventive educational workshops, week persons with spiral injuries, women with disabilities, mobility of disabled people and actively participates in many other projects, symposiums and workshops dedicated to disabled people. It is actively used in English. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I believe this House will support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Vice-President of the Government of Ms. Jadranka Kosor on the appointment of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and decide on the appointment of Anka Slonjšak as First Advocate for Persons with Disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10354	Thank you very much. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10355	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, let me begin by saying hello to the ladies and gentlemen who joined us at this session upstairs at the gallery, persons with disabilities and representatives of associations and national associations of persons with disabilities. Their arrival at this session today speaks enough about the appointment of a Ombudsman for disabled persons. This House of Highs, as we heard last year, passed the Law on Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. I must say that people with disabilities have been anxious to pass this law, and with great support from the government and vice president of the government and the Prime Minister of the Government's Committee for Persons with Disabilities, we were welcomed to receive the law last year. Under the law, the Government has issued a public invitation for the appointment of a lawyer or attorney for persons with disabilities to whom the call for their application has been sent by eleven persons. Of those eleven people, as we have seen from the government’s documentation, there have been as many as five people with disabilities. This is a sign that the problem of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia has been resolved intensively over the past few years because respected colleagues and colleagues, that a public call like this was announced ten years ago, would certainly not have been reported by so many people with disabilities. The Government's proposal to appoint Ms. Anka Slonjšak, I think that indeed one step forward or one big step forward, given that Mrs. Anka Slonjšak and the person herself with disabilities have managed to cope with the most difficult type of disability, or manage them. Ms. Anka Slonjšak is a graduate economist, the study ended as a disabled person with significantly greater or significant efforts than those needed by people without disabilities. Mrs. Ana Slonjšak, with her work and publishing, is visible from the documentation, has shown that she is extremely brave. She has shown that she knows the problem of people with disabilities, what is very important to people with disabilities. Because knowing a problem that's very complex is an extremely important detail for the attorney's appointment. Persons with disabilities have recognized Mrs. Anki Slonjšak's extremely great potential. And this is evident from numerous recommendations sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Ms. Anku Solšak by persons with disabilities, individuals and national alliances of persons with disabilities. As people with disabilities recognize the potential in Mrs. Anki Slonjšak, so did the government. And by proposing to Ms. Anku Slonjak as the Ombudsman for disabled persons once again, it has shown that persons with disabilities and persons with disabilities are considered by the Government as their equal partner. In the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we really believe that Mrs Anka Slonjak will, in a way prescribed by law, protect, monitor and promote the rights and interests of disabled people. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will be very pleased to support the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to appoint Ms Anka Slonjšak as Ombudsman for persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10356	Thank you. For the SDP Club, Madam Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10357	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First, I would like to welcome the members of the civil society representatives of people with disabilities who are up at the gallery, unfortunately I can't see them from my position right now, in any case, I welcome them all. And I would also, look, I've had the opportunity to meet some of them here in the hallway, and a little more everyone was in a wheelchair, but I note that in the category of people with disabilities there are therefore deaf persons and blind persons and deaf-blind persons and people with intellectual disabilities, persons with chronic diseases etc.. In any case, the SDP Club welcomes and here is the long wait that, and the delay of three months that came and this moment to appoint the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. The SDP club will support the appointment of Ms. Anka Slonjšak on the responsibilities of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. Given that I have known the person Slonjak for many years, I believe that he will do his job as a lawyer beyond any policy and political pressure, except for those who are in the service of persons with disabilities and the protection of their rights. In the SDP Club, we strongly advocate the civil, political, social and economic and cultural rights of persons with disabilities that we have proven through our policy as the first anti-discrimination act on persons with disabilities confirmed by this House in 2005. But after this candlestick tone, allow us to face reality and to look a little bit at the state of the right of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, and to warn once again about the necessity of changes which will now be able to encourage the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. Persons with disabilities are a hidden and isolated minority facing restrictions and unfair treatment and placed in the position of political helplessness in our society. They are treated on stereotype assumptions that do not reflect individual abilities or how much they can participate in society and give it their contribution. This has grown into a lasting discrimination and prejudice by taking their opportunity to equal opportunities. What we've taken as a society in that area, if I say anything, I'm wrong. If I said enough, that's not true either. If I were to say fire, sometimes someone would be right. I was guided by the fact that people with disabilities cannot exercise their rights in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and that is why I said something and somewhere. It is not regrettable to be the same person with disabilities in the city of Zagreb or any city or in any village, in the vicinity of Zadar, Sibenik, in Dalmatia Zagora. The SDP club supports the election of Ms. Anke Slonjšak as Ombudsman for people with disabilities with care to observe the work of offices and shifts they will likely be in the area. I'd like to know how the Deputy Prime Minister will answer her future attorney when she is asked a question about the inequality of the rights of all persons with disabilities. Whether they will answer as well as I do that rights will equalise and discrimination will be abolished when the state has money for it. What's the D.A.'s office gonna do then? I hope it doesn't just fit to put that information in the report. What will they do with Article 12? The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which has been mistranslated and no error has been corrected for more than a year now. Because her correction is supposed to get something done. This puts people with intellectual difficulties in an unequal legal position and, in fact, ratification of the Convention has not introduced new standards when it comes to people with intellectual difficulties. I'm going to give you some examples that I have to admit shocked. At one of my meetings with the members of the associations, they told me that they had to cheat on the system to exercise their right to start their own family. I'll give you an example from Vinkovac. So I was told there that if people with disabilities are both in wheelchairs, or they're users of personal disability, they're deprived of their business ability completely or partially, then they have no right to marriage. They ask the priest to marry them in secret. And we were talking about anti-discrimination yesterday. So where's their right to start their own family. I can also go replicas, I can go correcting incorrect allegations, but unfortunately these are the facts that we have to face. I'm not comfortable and easy to listen to, I believe as much as you do. But unfortunately, if we don't see them or hear them, that means they don't exist. What mechanisms will you run so people with disabilities can survive a few days with benefits they have from a social care system whose amount hasn't changed in years, and inflation grows from day to day. It's not about any special needs. It's about the right to food. Tell us, please, which one of us can survive with 1,000 kuna a month and have to eat, pay the directors, help in the house and a lot of things? Let us not forget that out of the total number of people registered at the Employment Office over 70% are being led as unemployed in the disability group. They stayed either an auxiliary workforce or in less-paid jobs. How to explain that a young girl with severe cerebral palsy, immobilized, with intellectual difficulties lives alone with her father and has no right to care at home or a nurse to help her father maintain her daily hygiene. When you will react, how you will react to the injustices of the user of the parent law, a nurse if a person with disabilities has no parents and is cared for by a brother or sister. And the law only puts it so that it can only be a parent nurse. How will you react to cases where young people with disabilities cannot access a university entrance exam because the time foreseen for passing exams is not adapted to their abilities or abilities. Or when the stairs and the lack of elevators are the reasons that make it impossible for colleges to participate regularly? All of this should have been adjusted over the past year. How will you react to the situation when a child with disabilities has repeatedly refused schooling in the house because of the transfer of responsibility from one part to another, and the child is at home and has no access to education. Are you going to respond to cases where two old people both with muscular dystrophy have no one to worry about and when one of them dies, and the other lying next to him dead, lying next to his dead partner because he can't stand up waiting two days for someone with pathology to come for the body because he has more urgent cases. Is under your pressure the Skills Committee will finally do its job so that it will not wait months to determine disability and it is about a person who has a disability from birth. I also hope that your efforts and pressure will allow women with disabilities to have gynaecological examinations, not that the money for gynaecological tables is collected through humanitarian actions. As you can see, I am making an example of the example, and unfortunately this is just a drop in the sea of problems that people with disabilities face on a daily basis. Besides, it'll finally come out when the office starts working. Most people with disabilities live below the poverty line. Their incomes are actually social benefits that cannot cover even the basic needs of life. They are often called upon to be the creators of social clienteleism because they live on social giving but others to live on when their education system is inaccessible when they are discriminated against on the labour market. Where they mainly do not have access to the open labour market and the Fund to which it was intended not to operate at least not in this sense. I won't repeat the problems with the Fund's work again because it's already clear to everyone what's going on there. People with disabilities don't even enjoy the minimum standard of living, the life of a decent man, and it's time to finally do something about it. The entire system that should protect this category needs to be pushed. We have mechanisms, ways, laws, strategies. We are the ones who should start it, or socially sensitive policy. The question is, are we ready for it? I would also refer to the problems that come from the civil sector. In the Republic of Croatia, many associations are founded and operated in different ways by protecting and promoting the rights of persons with disabilities each in their own way, depending on the objectives of the associations themselves. But I have to warn you that not all associations have the same treatment and approach when we talk about the resources that the state has set aside for their work. It is time for the funds for the work of the associations to be given in accordance with the quality of the projects to be applied to the competition and in accordance with national strategies. Persons with disabilities should be entitled to choice, right to education, employment, work, family, leisure and all according to their individual abilities, abilities, interests and needs. I think it's high time he joined the office and joined the Attorney General's office in serious and continuous policies towards people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10358	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote by Ms. Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10359	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I should probably spend a lot of time right now if I were to correct a number of incorrect allegations cited by my colleague Škulić, but I will only say in an indicative manner that the exposure of my colleague Škulić with a number of incorrect allegations is about, as if the problem of a disabled person in the Republic of Croatia is not being solved at all. It's just not possible to accept it because there's a problem, but you colleagues know where we were 10 years ago? You and I know it best, and where we are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10360	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of all, all MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament accepted and voted in favour of the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities today and on committees all representatives and representatives of all parties strongly support and appoint a person with, appointing a lawyer, counsellor for persons with disabilities with the belief that this person, counsellor for persons with disabilities, will be one institution, institutions that will assist and contribute to the fight against, and to improve the position of persons with disabilities. Because associations and representatives of disabled people, people with disabilities have also backed this law and supported this appointment. We'll vote tomorrow, most likely tomorrow, on this proposal to appoint a lawyer for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10361	Proposal for a decision to appoint a lawyer for disabled persons. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision to appoint Anka Slonjšak to the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was unanimously accepted by 124 votes. Thank you very much. And now, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're going to vote, so please let's get on board and see the quorum. Please, let's get involved, we didn't get involved, and I see the MPs are here. Miroslav Skoro, for example, didn't get involved. The result? 78 MPs, but apparently there's more in the assembly. 89. Okay. The first swearing oath to the Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Article 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 4(1). The Law on Ombudsmans for persons with disabilities, the Croatian Parliament, at its meeting on 30 May 2008, adopted a Decision appointing Ms. Anka Slošnjak, Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. In accordance with Article 23. The Attorney General's Law on Persons with Disabilities, the Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities, gives an oath before the Croatian Parliament. I call upon Mrs. Anka Slošnjak that after I read the text of the oath, he swears by the word "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I swear that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law, the respected legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and that I will carry out my duty in a fair, honorable, conscientious and impartial manner in the best interests of persons with disabilities."
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10363	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10364	I thank and congratulate the Attorney General for the disabled Mrs. Anki Slošnjak and I want successful work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10365	We are now going to the next item of the agenda - Final draft law on amendments to the Law on electronic trade, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 81 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate by the Committees on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Information and Media and the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Representative Tamara Obradović Mazal, secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10366	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In front of you is a shorter proposal for a law on electronic commerce. The law and the concept of electronic trade already regulated in the Republic of Croatia, and this final draft of the law completes the process of rounding up this virtual world of electronic trade, which is inter alia related to Croatia's negotiations for membership in the European Union. In fact, this question goes into chapter 10. - Information society and the media. Our accession negotiations have identified the need to make further alignment with Directive 31 of 2000, especially in the part relating to enabling consumers to seek judicial protection, i.e. temporary measures, as well as outside of a court settlement in the section relating to protection against unwanted e-mail or in the Internet world of unwanted spam, as well as in the part of the exemption from the use of e-commerce. Namely, anex to Article 3. The Directive regulates which areas of business relations between a client and a business community cannot, however, be conducted by electronic means. Thus, we included exceptions to the directive, exceptions to the emissions of electronic money, real estate purchase contracts, and contracts transposing other rights arising from real estate, insurance, insurance contracts and contracts resulting from the transfer of intellectual, industrial and commercial property rights. This Final Bill, apart from those amendments and additions, is also proposed to this law in order to effectively exchange information between the Republic of Croatia and others, so as to serve as future members of the European Union and other colleagues who regulate electronic operations in this way, we propose to establish a contact point for the Ministry of Economy, and this point will serve as a service to our citizens, i.e. consumers of a kind of Internet stop shop for the application of this law, for interpreting the directive, interpreting legal protection, finding a path to legal protection, explaining electronic business in the Member States of the European Union, and addressing the current problems that consumers may face with regard to electronic trade. This law will also support and encourage the adoption of codes of conduct of companies, those companies that do their business via the Internet. So, in this virtual world, but also the codes of conduct facing consumers themselves in order not only to protect their rights but also to make the Internet available to minors, who may encounter unwanted communications and unwanted transactions in this non-disclosure and surfing. This code will clearly set out the hodogram of the rules of conduct in electronic trade and prevent the weaker party from being damaged in any way in this online business. What is next and what is happening today is the adoption of the Law on Electronic Signature, which I hereby declare on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. With today's adoption of the Electronic Signature Act, which is an integral part of this electronic trade package, we hold that we will round up the whole of electronic business not only in Croatia but also in the relationship between consumers in Croatia and companies in the European Union that allow cross-border freedom of communication in the conclusion of our business transactions. In information society, in the Internet world of electronic commerce this whole will be completed and our consumers will be able to carry out their business transactions with the Internet completely and securely. I thank you for your attention, and I am at your disposal for your possible questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10367	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Legislative committees? European integration? For information and media? For the economy? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10368	The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The area of electronic trade in the legal system of the European Union is governed by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2000. The Law on Electronic Signature 2002 and the 2003 Law on Electronic Trade opened the process of creating the legal framework necessary for the functioning and development of the information society. The e-commerce law is partly in line with European legislation, and these proposed amendments also make the remaining necessary alignment with the European Directive. We know that trade plays a key role in the economy thanks to its position between supply and demand for goods, i.e. the impact on producers and consumers. From year to year, the share of this sector is a strong rise. This is visible from 45% share in the total number of entrepreneurs, 14% in the number of employees and 10% in the gross social product. Croatia, as a transition country ten years ago, faced the expansion of major world commercial houses on our territory and painful changes, and the struggle for the survival of domestic companies. At the very concentration of trade chains, domestic trade is trying to take advantage of the specificities of the Croatian market, especially in the area of tradition and customer habits. But that's not enough for the prosperity of trade because it takes the application of different forms and sophisticated methods of selling, different ways of distance trading as catalogical sales through mail, sales via television, more recently more and more represented online sales, and in a way competing with classical trade. There are many advantages of online trading, it can be performed at any time day and night, all 365 days a year, the seller and the customer are not limited by working hours, nor by differences in time zones. All sales information shall be made available at all times. As a global medium, the Internet removes spatial boundaries and allows anyone with basic technical equipment and knowledge to use it no matter where it is. The company offering such services on the market is called information and the provision of services is free, so the company does not have to obtain any permission, approval or concession from a state or other body, but must be constantly available to both the users and the competent authorities of the state administration. The proposed amendments to the Law on Electronic Trade will allow Croatian companies to contract and trade online via electronic means with companies based in the Member States of the European Union. However, the law also gives a list of contracts which are not legally valid if they are concluded by electronic means. Contracts laid down by the Family Law, Inheritance Act, Gift Contracts, Real Estate Transfer Contracts, Contracts that are specifically required by law to be drawn up in the form of a public instrument or signed by authority, Guarantee Contracts. It is also worth mentioning tax rules in electronic trade and it is, like any goods and services, taxed by VAT. The seller who sells products or services via the Internet is obliged to charge taxes and to issue a normal account to the customer. The account may, however, be exposed and delivered to the customer by electronic means, but on the basis of such an account, the customer cannot use the right to pretax. In foreign transport, different rules apply for the taxation of goods and for the taxation of services. The place of taxation of goods with VAT is always the place of their consumption. In the case of goods exports, the seller from Croatia does not charge VAT because it is the place of taxation in the country in which the goods are addressed. Conversely, in the case of imports of goods into Croatia, such goods are taxed in Croatia together with possible customs duties at the customs office. Exceptionally, when goods used for personal use of up to 300 kuna are imported into Croatian online sales, VAT is not paid. However, when selling or buying services via the internet, the tax rule applies to VAT in a country where the headquarters of the contractors has supplied the service, but the VAT Act provides for twenty exceptions for the online purchase of services, for example, whether the Croatian entrepreneur purchases certain information relevant to business or software via the internet, and the services are taxed according to the prescribed exceptions, i.e. according to the headquarters of the recipient of the service in Croatia. We conclude the Club of the Croatian People's Party, they will support these amendments to the Law on Electronic Trade because they enable us to step up with the time and environment in which we live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10369	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go. And is that the club? It is. Excuse me. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10370	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. What are the changes to this law? Amendments to this law make it possible to introduce provisions governing the provision of information society services by service providers based in the European Union, which means that Croatia allows contract business on the Internet and with companies whose head office is not in the Republic of Croatia. This also enables flexibility in the creation of business relations and in the cross-border aspect. However, the consumer does not remain unprotected. Provision of judicial protection to the damaged party shall be arranged, provisional measures shall be imposed. The Court may, by a temporary measure, prohibit and restrict the provision of services, order the removal of data and disable access to data. However, in order to protect citizens and entrepreneurs, some sectors are exempt from electronic business in order to achieve legal certainty. That's it, for example. the electronic conclusion of real estate purchase contracts or contracts transferable to real estate rights shall not be permitted. Direct business communication, which is equally legally valid with all power, rights and obligations, as well as a written contract, enables direct contact of supply and demand, but protects mutual rights and obligations as if it were a classic paper contract. Protect yourself and minors for, say, taking responsibility for their surfing on the Internet. It also protects itself in order to effectively exchange information as well as to support such business, Croatia will establish a contact point for communication in electricity business with the European Union and their Member States as a model for the Member States of the European Union. The Contact Point will be, so to speak, one stop shop for exchanges of information, improvement of electronic business, exchange of data on legal means and initiation of judicial and non-judicial proceedings. In order to strengthen this security because it is rounding up electrical operations, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will discuss and adopt the Electronic Signature Act and encourage the adoption of codes of conduct of companies, consumer associations and protection of minors who will clearly lay down rules of conduct so that electronic trade does not, not only get out of control, but takes place under the rules of profession and professional and moral principles. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10371	Thank you very much. State Secretary Tamara Obradović Mazal. You have no intention of adding anything? Okay. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the next point. What? You have an individual? We have, yes, another individual discussion. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10372	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade, with the Final Proposal of the Law. The basic act which regulates and develops the electronic business system in our country is the Law on Electronic Signature while this Law on Electronic Trade, which we are discussing today, is regulated by the provision of information society services. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic trade continues to successfully bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the regulations of the European Union, which will lead to the plan to ensure the conditions for implementation and trade in the Republic of Croatia without disturbances or obstacles. The following provisions that are aligned will make that possible. These are provisions which regulate the provision of information society services by service providers established in the European Union, and then by a part-round body of the state administration responsible for the implementation of electronic business. Finally, judicial protection of temporary measures and the extrajudicial settlement of disputes has already been highlighted with the aim of enabling and trading in Croatia without obstacles. I hope that by passing this law, we will all get rid of a whole series of unwanted e-mails that have been buried in our e-mail addresses and thus lead to order in the electronic trade market. This should contribute to the announced adoption of codes of conduct of companies but also to consumers. Greater consumer safety and protection, and in this respect, I point out that underage consumers are one of the most significant results to be achieved by this law as well as the announced code of conduct that is being prepared. The importance of trade, as well as of electronic trade in the economy, should not be particularly highlighted and electronic trade will give further incentive to international trade after the adoption of this law. In view of the fact that the existing Law on Electronic Trade has led to partial alignment with the provisions of European legislation, or Directive 2031 EC, it is necessary to complete the harmonisation that appears to be this law. The adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on electronic trade meets one of the criteria for the closure of Chapter 10 – the Information Society and the media, which requires full compliance with that Directive, which is only one reason for us to unanimously adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10373	Thank you. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10374	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. What about the electronics store? More or less everything is said and what we know and so far where it has been used are certain changes and additions. And it is certainly important here to indicate that these supplements especially took place in 2003. The basic act governing and developing the electronic business system in Croatia is the Law on electronic signature and the Law on electronic trade governing the provision of information society services. In particular, the Law on Electronic Trade is in line with the existing law of the Contracting Law of the Republic of Croatia, and special attention is paid when setting out the provisions of this Act to ensure the following objectives. I'll just list some. Consistency of this law with the Directive, as I said in 2000, where more or less is said, compliance with the existing contractual law of the Republic of Croatia, compliance with the existing regulation, smooth business of the provider of information society services as long as their activity is in accordance with all applicable laws relating to such companies. Also, defining the responsibility of the information society service provider or intermediary. The electricity trade law regulates the provision of information society services, the responsibility of information society service providers and data protection rules, the field of taxation, public notation activities, party representation and the protection of their interests. Since the Law on Electric Trade is partly in line with the provisions of European legislation, it is also necessary to complete the harmonisation of this law by Directive 2000. The adoption of this Act amending and supplementing the Electricity Trade Act also meets one of the criteria for the closure of Chapter 10 — Information Society and the media which requires full compliance with that Directive. In order to fully implement the Electricity Trade Act Directive 2000, these amendments and additions shall lay down provisions governing the provision of information society services by service providers established in the European Union. It is also important to note here that the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which was the holder of the production, had professional advisory assistance from the consultant of finance by Sigma and thus was fully or will be implemented as provided for by this law. It is also important to note here that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget or budgets to units of local and regional (regional) self-government. So I suggest we support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10375	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10376	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. This small law is an example of how you shouldn't work. First, look at the order of the articles in this law. You have article 1, so Article 2, so Article 3, and then Article 5a, which is printed in letters of fat and actually this is an insert, it's actually an article 3. Well, then article four, which is usually printed. So that's one papasia. When you look at Article 16, he says: “Article 1 paragraph 2 is 8. The e-commerce law shall apply until 1 January 2009. It's about the law in force. But take the applicable law, see Article 1(2), and you will see that there are no indents there, let alone any eight. Paragraph 2 of Article 16 states that this Law shall enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the "National Journal" except for the provisions of Article 4. But there is no point in Article 4, because Article 4 speaks of the ban on these spam. It means not Article 4 of this Law, which is precisely what the Government proposes, but the Article 4 of the existing law that is being amended. So it goes on to say that it will apply in addition to the provisions of Article 5a but that is not Article 5a, that is, in fact, Article 3 of this Act, which adds Article 5a. Well, Article 21a will not apply, but neither is Article 21a but Article 13 of this Law. This would make little kids in a mere school more neat and neat. This was the subject of the Media Committee and the representatives of the promoters said to be sprayed with ash and that this really is not the way the laws are proposed in this House. I then suggested on the Committee that the Proposer withdraw this, to withdraw this, not to be ashamed, and ultimately not to be ashamed of the Parliament if it adopts something like this, because this is completely inadmissible. You don't know what this is about and what article here is worth that won't be worth it, because this is just so messy. Of course, most in the Committee have made a different decision. You have it written in a report from the Committee, that the law is passed and yet in an emergency procedure, and we don't have a chance to fix all this nonsense until the second reading. And that's the way to work, to miss something that's obviously wrongly done, amateurically, to be missed just because it comes from the government. I think he's also talking about the relationship to the legislative body, to the Parliament. It is one understatement of the Parliament when it can be referred to such suggestions. See Article 4, which inserts Article 8, as he says. He says that the use of e-mail for the purpose of sending unwanted information communications will be allowed only, and in accordance with the law governing the area of electronic communications. There's no law on electronic communications. So this harmonizes with something that's not there. So how does something match up with something that's not there? So it was first necessary to pass the Law on Electronic Communications, and then after that, the law passed this law and brought it into line with the law that exists. And this is how the proposer suggests that something be coordinated with something that's not there. Therefore, I think it is not too late for the proposing representatives to now at this plenary session, when they did not want to do so on the Committee, to withdraw this shameful proposal, to give it to their professional services to do it again and to make a neat proposal once the Law on Electronic Communications has been passed to the Parliament to end this disgrace. That would be the only thing worthy of both the government and this Parliament. I'm surprised this could pass the Committee on the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but then I'm not surprised when I know that you've probably driven out all the professional people and brought in party-like ones who are here preparing you these bill proposals, because they don't know better. They don't know better, and they won't know. He won't even know. It's the result of this kind of humanization, this embarrassing legal proposal. Therefore, I ask you in the name of reason, in the name of dignity both of the Government and of the Parliament, to withdraw this from the procedure, to apologize to the Parliament for this messy legal text and to do so properly and to send it to the regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10377	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10378	In a series of incorrect allegations, I will correct only one that refers to this law as being unprofessional, that amateurally made, that it should be withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure. This is absolutely incorrect because the esteemed colleague mentioned only certain remarks which can be amended in terms of Article 16 and where the Legislative Committee reacted by amendment to this Article 16 and the esteemed colleague in this sense absolutely removes all this about which you have done this great, I would dare say a parade and a play that is not like anything. And the greatest humiliation of this House was in a document that you personally signed, that document since 11 March 2008 when you, here I am... You are calling on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to pass the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You signed that yourself. I have a document with me, and in terms of this signature and the obviousness of you and your board need and is kind of a disgrace to this high House in relation to the position of the Parliament in relation to the Government. Everything you've said has nothing to do with it, this law can come to terms with simple amendment interventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10379	Thank you. ... Replica, Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10380	Thank you very much. I don't think any amendments to this law can be fixed. Unfortunately for me, there is another problem that you have now opened. In fact, we will pay, in any case, one price to speed up the harmonisation of Croatian legislation on the legislation of the European Union. Since we haven't done anything on that plan in four or five years, now we're going to meet some deadlines at any cost. Unfortunately, that part of Croatian history, to say political history or parliamentary history, will be remembered, I assure you, not only about this law, but about a series of laws that will be passed during this period. I believe all deadlines will come true. Unfortunately, these laws will be unskilled, bad, not only nomotechnically, but also materially in any other form. And I think that we in the House would be interested in fighting to bring five laws or 20 laws beyond some government deadline without these laws being high-quality, because the government won't be guilty of bad laws, it's going to be this Parliament, because this House is passing laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10381	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10382	Prime Minister Sanader said it's not an important speed, it's an important quality. There's quality, that's quality, that's the peak of quality the government can offer. The government's driving at speed five. She put it in fifth gear, but driving in fifth gear obviously passes through red light, trampling on pedestrians, rose signs of traffic, that's the fifth-speed drive. And now it is, now the consequence of such a fifth speed is this disgrace. It is said here, it will be corrected by the Legislative Committee. Well, the Legislative Committee can't correct the stupidity that this law will comply with a law that doesn't exist. What kind of a Legislative Committee can correct that nonsense. That there's something in common with something that's not there. What magic wand can correct that nonsense. Well, it's quite clear that first one law should be passed and then this law. Listen to excuses for the government can be found. It can be said that this is the kind of thing I don't know about plays. But all the allegations of what they say here, the representatives of the proposing committee, colleagues of Lucin, have accepted as correct. No matter what my colleague Markovanovic says here. Your government's representatives accepted it and said it was, Tomljanovic, that it was true. If that were true, therefore, there's no point in asking the government here for some kind of apology, professional services, some excuse for this kind of sloppy work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10383	The second replica of Mrs. Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10384	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Honorable colleague Stazic presented a part of what he said on the Committee on Information and Media. And when he tells us here now that this law has also been supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I must remind him that the Committee, which he has also supported is the adoption of this Law. In addition to all the facts presented by my colleague Stazić, and my colleague Emil Tomljanović, as president of the Committee on Legislatives and corrected and resolved through the Committee on Lawwork, I believe that this law, the proposal of this law, can be adopted here because the way I want to replicate my fellow Stazic is the way we treat both the Government and the Croatian public here when we present the facts in such a way that they are irreparable, that the situation in the country run by this government is horrifying, irreparable and the majority in this High Croatian House guarantees that the picture and the situation is completely different. And that is why I propose that this law be adopted and with the amendments that, the amendments adopted by the Committee on Legislatives. And when we're talking about speed five, I'd like to ask a colleague of the government where his government was working at speed. It may happen, there may be a mistake, but the law that regulates the area of electronic communications is in preparation and will be here shortly before the Croatian Assembly and then it is possible when we work at the fifth speed, and we do, and that is confirmation, that these things happen to us, that we have put something in here and we haven't discussed it yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10385	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10386	True, it is true, the Media Committee has accepted, supported the bill. Why? Well, because the Media Committee as well as all the committees is put together so that the parliamentary majority has a majority on that committee. Of course, the Media Committee did not unanimously accept this bill because opposition representatives voted against it. Because we don't think this kind of bill can go through the parliamentary procedure, that they're unworthy to come to a plenary session at all. And before voting on the Media Committee, I warned the rapporteur without the presence of journalists, don't embarrass yourself with it, take it back right away, and no one will even know. What, the government withdrew the proposal, they're going to give it, they're going to fix it, and there's not going to be this debate. I well-intentioned them not to attend the plenary session, you were present and you heard it. But there is something about the conduct of the parliamentary majority that I do not understand. There's some pride in coming to a plenary session with a bad proposal, to be ashamed of him here. You know what? I'm going to keep this bill, I'm going to send it to law school so students can show it when they're taught to nomochnik how they shouldn't work. So on this example, the law of a generation of law students will teach what it is tossy work on nomotechnics, so this government will probably remain recorded in law school documents in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10387	Final review, State Secretary Tamara Bradović-Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10388	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and thank you for the proposal to refer this Final Bill to educational purposes at the Faculty of Law, given that I have graduated from it myself, I believe that as many practical exercises as possible to future lawyers, even if our final proposal will serve for a positive purpose. And legally speaking that there are nomotechnical inconsistencies that are not irreparable, I hold in my hand two amendments, two amendments that will correct the text. Yes, it is also human to pour ashes in the legal and professional sense of that word and to say there are nomotechnical inconsistencies. But there is also the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, there is something called the editorial text. There's a maneuvering room for repairs. We're not talking about a substance, a substance that will take effect, that will enable what this law really is, not 5a, 21b or 4c. The substance is to enable business. And if there is room within the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that allows us to repair. It's human to say there's room for repairs but it's also human to fix it through legal mechanisms, through mechanisms that this Parliament allows. In that segment, although the vote on this law will not be until tomorrow, I believe in the name of the Government, with the very insight into the substance of these two amendments. And on this occasion I say that we will not withdraw the final draft of the law from the procedure, I believe these amendments can improve the nomotechnical inconsistency that will enable it to be, and that is the content of this law to live, to live in practice. And a review that has nothing to do with the final bill but has something to do with what the government is very committed to myself. For the last 5 years, nothing has really been done in the process of joining the European Union because we are today a candidate for membership. That is why we are a step to the "road map", which is why we are a step by the end of June. That is why next year we will have a date of entry into the European Union. So we open the chapter, we meet the standards, because in five years we haven't done anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10389	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10390	It's quite an incorrect allegation that the substance of the law, could, the bill's proposal, be good if the nomotechnics are bad. That substance cannot be realized. Watch out, there's no substance that's going to be worth, I don't know, a butnea 8 that's not there. You can't do that when you, we can't get to the substance. When you make the bill so sloppy. So don't, it's nice to be back here with ash on your head and in public. You didn't need that. You didn't need that, you could have avoided it. You could've sent him to the next session we've had fixed, and this whole disgrace of yours and the government wouldn't have come. But you can't defend yourself... /The speaker's off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10391	And a second correction by Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10392	Well, I'm only going to correct one incorrect allegation, and that's that the government didn't do anything. Yeah, the government did something. But you know what she didn't do? She hasn't fulfilled her own plans how many laws will she pass in four years? And since she didn't meet her plans, we couldn't adopt those laws. Now we're going to pay the price of speedy lawmaking in a way that we're going to get disastrous laws like this. I could count some more, but there'll be opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10393	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10394	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on electronic trade, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 81. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. Please, Madam Secretary of State Tamara Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10395	Thank you. The government accepts the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10396	Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10397	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10398	Accepts and becomes an integral part. And the Legislative Committee, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10399	The amendment shall be accepted by Mr. President with the correction of errors, so that Article 16 instead of the figure "1". You have to write the number: "4" [[Intruder: Accept.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10400	The Legislative Committee shall adopt. So as the secretary of state here said. I therefore propose the final draft law to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. What's the score? This law was adopted by most votes, 84 for, 5 abstentions and 35 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10401	Let's go to 3rd, next item: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 82. The Proposer of the Law is the Government. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by committees on legislation, European integration, agriculture, fisheries and rural development. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Representative of the Proposer, State Secretary Josip Kraljičković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10402	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. Let me briefly present to you the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties stems from the need to regulate the field of protection of intellectual property against real, created plant varieties or create legal frameworks for the protection of individual rights. The existing Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties is in line with the 1991 UPOV Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties. UPOV is an international union for the protection of new plant varieties. By adopting that law, the Republic of Croatia has met the conditions for access to UPOV and has become a full member of UPOV on 1 September 2001 and as such, as the Republic of Croatia recognises and confirms the 1991 UP Convention. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties will make the necessary amendments and additions to the existing legal text with the aim of: First, to make the necessary corrections to the text. It is fully aligned with the current UP Convention for the Protection of Plant Varieties. Secondly, in order to supplement the legal text, the harmonisation of the EU Directive 98/44 on legal protection against technological inventions and the installation of so-called "Technological Inventions". peer review under the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties as a form of legal protection of biotechnology inventions. Third, to address the issue of jurisdiction under this law in a way that the Ministry of Fisheries and Rural Development is appointed as a central and co-ordinated and administrative body responsible for law enforcement and that the Institute for Seeding and Dispersion is run by professional, technical tasks in the system of protection of plant varieties. The adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties will fully comply with the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties with the existing UP Convention on the Protection of Plant Varieties, resulting in the obligation of the Republic of Croatia as a full member of UPOV. We're prepared for your questions and suggestions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10403	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on European Integration? The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10404	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State allow on behalf of the SDP Club to give a review of this law and these amendments to this law. It is precisely the proposal for this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties with the Final Proposal for the Law that regulates the way and the procedure for the protection of varieties of agricultural plants. Procedure for the acquisition of the processing law and protection of the holder of the processing law. The need to regulate the field of protection of intellectual property against created plant varieties or protection of processing rights has been resolved so far by the existing law and rules and is in line with the 1991 Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties. The importance of the laws so far is that the Republic of Croatia with its 3 thousand, 3 million 156 thousand hectares of agricultural land, of which a million 484 thousand hectares of oracies and gardens, is 75% of the working areas of which 10% of the population is engaged in agriculture and of which there is 11% of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia must certainly be interested in planting seeds of plant varieties created by their own brains and experiences that have a 100-year tradition of production in these areas. We have been dealing with these affairs for over 100 years in Croatia. So it is commendable to say that today we use declared seed at 90% of our agricultural surfaces. However, based on observed and acquired experience in nature, man has just begun to select these fruits from the seeds of "better uses" and the first population in the further stage of cultivation or fertilization led to the creation of the first original types and varieties in our fields. In the time between the two world wars, the production of plant varieties was conducted on the scientific basis in the areas of Zagreb, Križevci, Osijek in scientific institutions. However, the development of seed plant varieties has been accelerated since 46th since World War II. It continues with the same move by establishing both seed centres and businesses. In addition to these scientific institutions on the surfaces of agricultural companies, science is associated with practice and new varieties are obtained and they contribute to the additional capacities of Belje, Vupika, Kutjeva, Đakova, Vinkovac, Osijek, Slatine, Donji Miholjc, Koprivnica, Križevci, Zagreb. It is in these centres that an important branch of agriculture called the seed industry is created because it meets the need for seed in the Republic of Croatia, especially in eastern Croatia or Slavonia and Baranja, which has over 50% of the war production of the Republic of Croatia. This Croatian seed industry has significantly raised local selections and processing houses in Zagreb, Osijek, which have followed world trends and goals resulting in the integration of domestic processing projects into international selection projects and the inclusion of the Croatian seed industry in exports and production of seeds on the international market. Today, some 200 thousand tonnes of seeds used in the production of Croatia are produced in Croatia, Croatia is also going for export. But what makes the creation of new varieties important? So because we produce 18 kinds of seeds in Croatia today. Compared to one Austria that produces as many as 40 species, it is indicated that we are not using our potential and tradition to create new plant varieties. In Croatia today, the most grown corn seed is worth about 250 million kuna, wheat 100 million kuna, barley 25 million, soybean 25 million kuna. However, the most imported seed potatoes could certainly produce more, sugar tails and sunflowers. The importance of these amendments on the protection of plant varieties primarily refers to the harmonisation with the EU Parliament Directive 98/44 and the legal protection of inventions in the field of biotechnology. I think that this is certainly why it is necessary to pass a law like this, but it is even more necessary that we increase certain stimulations to our own mind that it is used to create new varieties and thus produce and process seeds for our needs and exports. What does that mean? So the amendment of this law will need to amend the Regulation on the level of the costs of the process for the acquisition and duration of the processing law because, following the amendments to this law, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development as mentioned here and also in the material becomes central, coordinating and administrative body competent for law enforcement. And the Institute for Seeding and Dispersion in Osijek will run technical activities. So far, it's been run by this office. The Bureau will run the application register. The other registers, the Register of Procedural Rights, the Register of transfer of Procedural Rights, the Register of Procedural Procedural Rights and the Journal of Representatives will be headed by the Ministry. Why am I saying that? Well, that's the rulebook that says all of this has to be paid. And for these first items until seed production, it is necessary to pay a thousand 750 kuna. That's why I think it's teaching what I said as creating a single stimulation to produce our own plant varieties, and I think it's also an opportunity to reduce the obligations that geneticists and fertilizers have under the rules for new varieties that they create. So far, these costs have been paid to the Institute for Seeding and Dispersion in Osijek, which is all business and radio and is now an opportunity to reduce this because the job of the office is reduced, the ministry is taking over some of the jobs, and this is the way I think the state will show that it is interested in developing new plant varieties from our producers in our fields. Why is that necessary? Because the work that geneticists and pronouns do is one long job, professional. The question of success is always uncertain and the issue is especially obtained because, also under the rules after payment of these access payments, annual compensation is paid for the duration of the processing rights from the first to the third year 250 kuna, and everything goes to the 14th year 800 kuna and of 15 thousand kuna is paid for a particular seed. Okay, that's the period when that seed is used and it probably brings some profit, but you need to pay off all of this before and the question is what will be the result. And finally, I think that this is certainly necessary because in the last fifteen years the production of seeds in Croatia is 50% of the real possibilities that we have in view of favourable and agro ecological conditions, I especially consider it in Slavonia and Baranja, knowledge and technology for the production of varieties, high genetic purity varieties and additional capacities that can give quality seeds to our fields and exports. Therefore, we support amendments and additions to the law, with the hope of respecting the needs of the amendments to that Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10405	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk? Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his word. Would you like a final review? Yeah. State Secretary Josip Kraljičković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10406	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to thank you for the affirmative presentation of Mr. Parliamentarian and the proposal. On behalf of the Government, we accept the two amendments that we have received, which I hope you have on the benches and the reasoning that you have received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10407	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10408	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 82. The debate is closed. The draft law has adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and they have become an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was unanimously adopted by 122 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10409	Next item - Final bill on medical products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 83 The Proposer of the Law is Government. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Ante Zvonimir Golem will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10410	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The issue of medicines and medical products in the Republic of Croatia was governed by the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Products adopted in the Croatian Parliament in 2003 and then in 2004. And which at that time was in line with the applicable European Union directives. By adopting a new directive to which the issue of medicines is regulated by the Directives, so-called the old approach, and the problem of medical products, new access directives have shown the need to separate the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Products into two specific laws. Although, in principle, it is the same approach to the problem. On this basis, the Croatian Parliament adopted in 2007 a Law on Medicinal Products that is fully in line with the European Union directives, while medical products remained regulated in part of the earlier law. This legislative proposal addresses the problem of medical products. Subject law regulates the definitions of what medical products are, in which medical products are placed on the market, determines the body that monitors and regulates the transport of medical products, prescribes the obligation of clinical testing to protect public health and procedures for the authorisation of clinical trials, determines the conduct of the eyewitnesses both the manufacturer and the product. An assessment of the consent, the consent documents as well as the consent and technical characteristics, the records of adverse events and the behaviour in the event of adverse events, and the supervision of the implementation of everything on the side of the pharmaceutical inspection shall be introduced. The proposal for a law gives additional powers to the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, the introduction of an eyewitness and the verification of compliance with the same monitoring of the use of those products and the possibility of incorrect and harmful influences. The draft law in question is in line with European Union legislation by harmonising the right to exercise competition law and rules, as well as normisation, measurement, authorisation and assessment of consent. Parts of the proposal which are not fully harmonised in the part will be harmonised by the adoption of sublegal acts on the basis of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10411	Thank you. The committee's reporters? Legislatives? European integration? The Committee on Health and Social Care, Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10412	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. At its meeting, the Health and Social Care Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Medical Products with the Final Proposal for a Law as a parent body. In the opening statement, the proposaler's representative explained the reasons for the adoption of this law in 2007. The European Parliament and the Council have adopted new directives that have conditionaled on and adopted the new Medical Products Act. They have implemented all the directives of the Council of Europe's recommendations in national legislation. During the debate, committee members unanimously supported the adoption of this law. Since medical products are of particular importance for human health care, the establishment of quality assurance rules and safe medical products is a quality of newspaper in our legislation has been highlighted by committee members. The debate stressed that medical products must meet the essential requirements of taking care of the foreseeable purpose which contributes to ensuring the safety and efficiency of medical products. During the debate, it was warned of a certain uncertainty of Article 54(1) of the Law and raised the question of what are the adverse events in a clinical study of medicinal products for which there is no obligation to report what the legislator will complete by means of a sublaw. Special attention during the debate is given to medical equipment. The provisions of this law refer to medical products, not medical devices, or medical equipment. Since this is also an extremely important area in the Law of Medicinal Products and this law makes up a whole of the board members have suggested that it would be useful to pass a special law on medical equipment. With unanimous support from this law, the members of the board were of the opinion that the sublegal acts to be adopted here 21 should be adopted as soon as possible. The relevant rules should certainly specify in more detail what damage these are from clinical trials of medicinal products for which there is no particular need for registration, and should clarify the system and jurisdiction of the pharmaceutical inspection which would constitute a wider range of experts. After extensive discussion, board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Medical Products Act. In conclusion, it is recommended that the Government of the Republic of Croatia propose a special Medical Equipment Act as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10413	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10414	Thank you very much. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Medical Products which is particularly important in the framework of the adoption of new laws that should be provided in our healthcare system as much as possible guarantee that new medical products, and that many of them will be secure by geometric progress not only for those who are intended, but also for all those who are in the chain of how imports, transport, before and at the end of the production of the products themselves. Why the new law? In 2003, we passed the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Products in which we first regulated this very important problem in a way that was then common in the European Union countries. In other words, the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Products was based on Directives 20 and 83 of 2001. So we have implemented the directives very quickly within less than two years. However, the European Union has amended its directives and has therefore joined the adoption in 2007 and adopted the Law on Medicinal Products. This law introduced new Directives Nos 24 and 27 as well as Regulation 141 which strictly dictated the conditions of transport, testing, import, production, sales and handling of medicinal products. However, that law did not amend the provisions on medical products because the European Union Directives for this area were in place and therefore leave the provisions on medical products in force until the adoption of this proposal for a law. In September 2007, the Council of Europe adopted Directive 47 laying down a way of selling the turnover of records and everything else that ensures the safe application of medical products, and this Directive is the one incorporated into this law. This law includes other recommendations, other directives and other specifics relating to in vitro diagnostic products and those medicinal products made from animal tissue, animal tissue. I would highlight several important parts of this law, which is modern, which is in line with European guidelines and will certainly mean a new step in the quality of the entire health system. The definition of a medicinal product is very broad and one of the possible definitions is applied here, which determines that instruments, devices, devices, programmes, materials or other products for human use which do not achieve their primary purpose based on pharmacological, immunological and metabolic properties and which are used alone or in combination with the software support necessary for its proper application. Therefore, it is a wide range of different products that excludes only medical equipment or medical apparatus that will be specially regulated, which does not mean that it is now outside certain regulatory standards. In the general part of this law, the first part of this law sets out general requirements that must be met by a medical product, which is that they do not, first of all, endanger the health and do not endanger the safety of the patient. The Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Products responsible for the eyewitness is hereby identified as responsible for the overall problem, so the register of all products that pass a certain verification procedure, for the monitoring of these products, for the monitoring of clinical trials, and is also responsible for the withdrawal of those products from transport under certain conditions. The withdrawal of the product is precisely defined and the withdrawal is reported by the European Commission, and the European Commission also reports on the measures taken. Chapter 3 is specifically introduced and precisely determines the clinical study of medical products and this is a big newspaper. In fact, the task of a clinical trial is to prove and verify whether the product meets essential requirements in order to protect public health and is carried out by a legal person who fulfils the conditions laid down by the Minister of Health. The clinical trial approval shall be given by the Minister on the basis of full documentation and a positive opinion of the Central Ethics Committee. The documentation is very complex and the whole procedure depends on this documentation, and therefore the special regulation of the Minister of Health and Social Care prescribes the documentation to be followed by each medical product. What is particularly good and important is that in conducting a clinical trial, as well as for medicinal products, a contract is concluded with a legal person who will conduct this examination by that institution, this legal person must again meet very strict special conditions that the health minister also prescribes because this is a fundamental condition that he can conduct such complex and responsible studies. It is also good that it has been found that all material costs are strictly signed and determined in that contract, we know that in this sense there have been some irregularities in the past years that have now been corrected, and it is obvious that this provision will not be passed on to the examination of medical products. In particular, an entry in the eyewitness is an important item. This entry into the eyewitness draws upon itself and the obligation to report any change. Therefore, if a doctor and other healthcare professional who in contact with a medicinal product user, any participant sells on a large or retail basis or anyone else in a chain passing a medical medicinal product notices an irregularity is obliged to report to the Agency in writing. The Agency shall have the right to delete the product from the eyewitness if some of the provisions of this Act are found to be non-compliance and if harmfulities have been identified or if the data entered do not correspond to reality, they are therefore not correct. Chapter 5 sets out the conformity assessment, considered to comply with the essential legal provisions. Until the entry into the European Union, the Minister of Health may authorise a body, a legal person who will assess compliance, after entering the European Union, that legal body will apply to the European Union for the purpose of obtaining an identification number, and after that, the legal body will be equally with other bodies which determine compliance in the countries of the European Union. I would also point out Chapter 6 which states that all legal persons for the transport of medical products must meet the criteria which the minister also adopts with a special sublaw, and this applies to legal persons who will have a large and small trade. There will be little traffic in pharmacies and special specialized shops. In particular, it is established that the Agency will withdraw the marketing authorisation from the medicinal product if it no longer meets the prescribed conditions and there are also exceptions, except where imports of a medicinal product not registered in the register serve for research purposes. So that's the exception to that rule. In a clinical trial of new medicinal products, since the new product, of course, cannot be entered into the eyewitness yet, but the possibility of exceptions in different emergency situations is also foreseen when an urgent need for a medicinal product that cannot then pass the phase of clinical trials could occur. I believe that this circle of exceptions is very narrow, limited only to the most important and urgent situations. Those that should still be pointed out here, it is in Chapter 8 that everyone who notices the malfunction of the product is obliged to report to his agency. In the event of an invalidity of the modification of characteristics in relation to those which were registered by an eyewitness, an incorrect labelling of the product or an incorrect product instruction, in all cases the Agency shall carry out an analysis, have the right to delete the product and report to the Member State of the European Union in which the product is manufactured. It may be only at the end of one small review of clinical trials, Article 54(1), which determines that a healthcare professional participating in a clinical trial as an investigator, and of course he must meet certain criteria, is obliged to inform the MAH of any adverse occurrences unless the study plan so requires. So there are exceptions where there is no need to be informed and there have been discussions on the committee and the ministry has accepted that these exceptionally more precisely define by a sublegal act which this article is already governed by. A minor remark could also be referred to a well-placed surveillance, but it is determined to be carried out by a pharmaceutical inspection. The law states that in a pharmaceutical inspection other than pharmaceuticals, there should also be experts on other profiles, so we have suggested that it be more precisely defined in the sublegal act, a rule to which this article is called simply because it is so broad that it is difficult for one, two or three experts to give an assessment for that wide range of products. Therefore, all possible experts that will be designated for each type of medicinal product should be defined there. And in conclusion, we believe that this is a significant and major step in setting general security and the general security framework in our health system, that one area that has not been resolved to the end is being resolved, and we expect that the Ministry will continue to pass another important law, the Medical Devices Act, the apparatus that we are now using, and not all of them are ultimately harmonised in all cases with international usual regulations. I therefore believe that, on behalf of the club, I declare that this law is very high quality, that it was adopted in time, that it is in line with all European requirements and that it should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10415	Thank you. SDP club, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10416	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a medical product law is ahead of us and harshly speaking in medicine there are three large groups. The first group are medicines, the second group are medical products, the third group is medical equipment, and so all arranged countries, and Croatia becomes more organized and more regulated year by year, have three laws. The drug law we've had for years, the Law on Medical Products, which is currently under way and unfortunately we don't have a law on medical equipment. Hebrang, of course, left two important things in his presentation in the end, which are at least somehow from the position of the SDP representative’s club, still questionable in what sense to solve, that is, Article 54(1). On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I will try to clarify what these are clinical trials and why it is very important to us that they take place transparently and that this Article 54(1) is corrected under the legal act of the Regulation. And secondly, and not less importantly, which is why it is very important as soon as possible, and we asked the Secretary of State yesterday on the Health Committee within a year or two, but it would be good to pass the Medical Equipment Act within 12 months. Our primary mission of health care professionals is not to harm... means first not to harm the patient, the citizen, and help as clearly as possible in accordance with the progress of medical science and medical professions. [[You don't understand.]] That's why the key word and this law is basically security, firstly the safety of our patients and secondly the effectiveness, if clearly it can be achieved. Therefore, Article 54(1) I will repeat it unspecified in the sense that the healthcare professional participating in the clinical trial should immediately inform the holder of any adverse events other than quotes in the event of adverse events for which the test plan and the test guide plan do not require it. This is definitely unarranged and I ask and we will insist that the health administration as soon as possible clarify the issue through the obligation to apply either by sublaw or in a different way. Otherwise clinical trials are essentially something that is definitely to be welcomed both in Croatia and in the world. Why? Because they're multiple. Multiple useful. Unfortunately, in the last few years, the number of clinical trials in Croatia has fallen if combined with previous years for a number of reasons partly objective, partly due to indeterminateness, but are the advantages I will set out the following four. The first is an advantage for a patient, a patient who is unfortunately ill and who, most often, is suffering from patients with malignant disease, should receive therapy that is recent, which is modern and which is being studied throughout the world. In other words, clinical trials allow our citizens, our patients to get the cure the same week, the same day that this medicine is given to a citizen in New York, Washington, London or Italy. What is very important, this medicine is bad and this medicine allows and allows our citizens to be treated according to the progress of medical science. The second advantage is for healthcare professionals, for nurses, our brilliant nurses and doctors who participate in this clinical study because they allow them to be in touch with their colleagues in Los Angeles, Washington, London, Italy, to participate equally with them and therefore to hold a voice on the merits of Croatian medicine and on the merits of Croatian science. The third benefit is for the hospital where this clinical trial is being conducted. When you are investigating a medicinal product or in this case a medicinal product, most commonly since it is a new medicine, you should monitor the concentration of this medicine. You must also get the equipment to be adequately controlled. The equipment's getting the hospital. He gets badava, he has to get badava, and when he gets a hospital, whether it's a hospital in Požega, whether it's a hospital in Dubrovnik or Zagreb, so all of our citizens get it. And fourthly, and not less importantly, the benefit for society as a whole is the benefit for the insurance company, while the insurance company health care company in Croatia is called HZZO - Croatian Health Insurance Office. Why? Because these doctors, or those patients who are receiving this medicine, do not need to get it from HZZO, but get it bad. So I stress, the benefit is multiple for the citizen, for the doctor and the nurse, for the health care institution, for the hospital, for HZZO and for the state. It is therefore very important to cultivate, respect and encourage our Croatian medicine to be involved in clinical trials in a clear, transparent way, respecting, stressing, primarily safety, "received niyl nocera". The other thing that is partly unspeakable or absolutely unspeakable is medical equipment. However, Article 2 emphasizes, mentions the word device, the medical product quotes "an instrument, device, device, programme, material or other product for human use etc.", finished quote. It's the only place he mentions the device. If it's not read well enough, then it's thought to be a device essentially equipment. The device in this case is, for example, a pacemaker which is essentially a device, but is not diagnostic equipment and it is therefore very important as soon as possible, and it would be good within 12 months to adopt a Medical Equipment Act which must, of course, comply with safety and efficiency standards. But all the organized countries in our environment, so in Central Europe, Southeast Europe, without talking about Western Europe and the United States, they have this law. And finally, but no less important, this law requires the adoption of 21 sublaws. Respecting the health administration of the Ministry of Health, it is a state secretary as a continuity, though he was a minister, but as a continuum of the previous ministry we are not happy with previous laws that have not adequately followed the adoption of sublaws and regulations. We also expect to speed up the adoption of these sublegal acts, 21 regulations, because if we do not have an implementing mechanism that the law will be implemented daily in its work or our citizens, and we say brings a number of positive benefits, then this large part of the positive things of this law, if I may say so, will not be implemented. So we expect that, unlike the previous years, when the rules have been passed with a significant delay, and some have not yet been passed, this 21 rule will be passed within about six months. Eyewitness, the database is something we need. We all emphasized that on the parliamentary committee, we all emphasized that in the SDP's Club of Representatives, because regardless of what so-called. paperwork rarely burdens us in our daily clinical work, whether our doctors in primary health care, hospitals or clinics, without good eyewitnesses, without a good file there is no progress in medicine. Unfortunately, we witnessed, for example, two or three months ago that some forms that have been in law since '97, '98. They must be met during some hospitalizations they have not been brought into practice, so I hope that the eyewitness, the forms will become a daily part of the standard procedures of our healthcare professionals, but I also stress the health administrations. And in the end, we can pass great laws if we don't have an inspection, if we don't have a good pharmaceutical inspection that we need, and that's where we're going to give support, to the administration to increase their number that will daily carry out the inspection of our health care institutions, then unfortunately, our pharmacy won't live. Therefore, we will support this law, but with observations, the championships from clinical trials and medical equipment. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10417	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10418	Dear Mr. Vice President, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. We said "repetio six mother studiorum" so I'll discuss the proposed law P.Z.E. 83 start with an explanation of the medical product, as described in Article 2(1) of this Act. It is defined there that the medical product is an instrument, device, device, programme, material or other product for human use which does not achieve its basic purpose on the basis of pharmacological, immune or metabolic properties and which are used on its own or in combination with the software support necessary for its legal use. To whom is the medical product intended? It is intended to diagnose, prevent, monitor, treat, relieve the disease. Then, diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, control, mitigation or elimination of physical damage or deficiency. Then study, removal or replacement or alterations of anatomic or physiological functions of the organism, control... On 21 June 2007, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Medicinal Products, and the provisions of several directives were transposed into national legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So Directive 2004/24 of 31 March 2004 concerning traditional herbal medicines, then Directive 2004/27 relating to the area of placing the finished medicinal product on the market, as well as Regulation 141/2000 concerning the group of medicinal products for the treatment of severe and rare diseases. This law entered into force on 1 October 2007, and with this date of entry into force of the law, the provisions of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Products of 2003, 2004 except for articles relating to medical products have ceased to apply. Those articles shall cease to apply on the day of the expiry of the period of one year from the entry into force of the Medicinal Products Act, i.e. on 1 October 2008. Some other provisions are also taken over by this law. Directive 98/79 on in vitro diagnostic medical products, as well as the provisions of Commission Directive 2003/32 relating to medical products produced by the use of animal tissue. The proposal for a law on medical products brings quality newspapers and this is by laying down rules for the provision of quality and safety medical products as a product of particular importance for human health protection. What exactly is being determined by this law? Requirements for medical products, clinical trials of medical products, registration of medical product manufacturers, conformity assessment, conformity marking and registration of medical products, then transport, advertising and notification, vigillation and supervision of the medicinal product shall be established. Noting some articles, who, for example, Article 6 says that medical products can only be placed on the market if they do not endanger the health and safety of the patient, users and other persons, and if they are properly produced, placed, maintained and used in accordance with their purpose. As regards clinical trials on which there has been a lot of speeches, Article 17, which says that the approval for a clinical study of a medicinal product is given by the minister on the basis of full documentation and a consistent opinion of the Central Ethics Committee. As far as his supervision is concerned, see Article 56. The supervision of the implementation of the provisions of this law and of the census adopted under this law shall be carried out by the Ministry's pharmaceutical inspection. The competent authority of the Member State of the Member State concerned shall ensure that the competent authority of the Member State of the Member State of the other Member State of the Member State of the Member State of the Member State As regards the transitional and final provisions of Article 76 of the Regulation for which the adoption of which is authorised by this law, the Minister shall be obliged to adopt within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. The Croatian Democratic Community will support this law because we find a range of quality to be done for.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10419	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10420	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. There is another law before us that harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union in the field of health. In this regard, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Medical Products which is a very important and important law for the best health protection of the population or determines all relevant areas of production, the area of clinical research, the entry into the register of manufacturers, storage, import and export of medical products, and finally regulates the final distribution itself, the application of the conditions of the disease. As is known in medical practice, the basic rule of each treatment is based on a long-term and clear unambiguous message "to receive non-nocera" which means no treatment procedure, and so taking medicines must first not harm those who take it and of course this applies to the area of medical products. This law prior to us harmonizes us, we can say the relatively good legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, which gives us additional safety in health care that we have already heard about. I'm going to look back here in my presentation at some very important specifics of this law that I find really good because it regulates all areas of medical products. In the first instance, it should be said that the medical product requirement provision itself states that the product can only be used if it does not harm human health, if properly and in accordance with the law stored, distributed and, of course, if all phases of the clinical trial have passed, and that all data on this medicinal product are transparent. This law further edits the field of clinical trials we heard, Mr. Hebrang and Professor Ostojić said, and I would, since I am a clinician, say a few things about a clinical trial. Therefore, it is explained that under the concept of a clinical trial, any examination of a medicinal product is meant to determine whether the product concerned meets essential requirements in order to protect health. Thus, Article 16 of this Act states that a request for a clinical examination is submitted by a legal person who fulfils the conditions laid down in a regulation adopted by a minister. This Article shall also be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union. In fact, such authorisation for a clinical trial is granted exclusively by the Minister of Health. Article 17 on a clinical trial also regulates when the minister may grant approval, i.e. what previous actions or procedures are necessary for the minister to decide on approval. It is primarily necessary for the request to contain complete documentation but it is very important to approve the Central Ethics Commission and at the same time we all know that each health institution also has its own hospital ethical commission which must also give its preliminary opinion on each clinical trial. It is also stated in this article that within 60 days, the minister must make a solution either positive and allow the examination or negative. If, during this time period, the minister does not provide an explanation of the application, the approval shall be deemed to have been positively resolved. The Minister shall provide for documentation, procedures and conditions for the examination of the medicinal product. From these few specifics we see that the role of the Minister of Health in the clinical trial of medicines is far the most important and all the rules that were said here are 21 arranged and brought by the minister. Article 18 of the clinical trial refers to the informed consent of the person undergoing the clinical trial. Here we must be clear and say that so far in the Republic of Croatia all clinical trials have been conducted on the basis of the medical profession and with prior approval of the Central Ethics Committee. It is important to say that clinical trials in children can only be conducted if the effects of studies on adults cannot produce relevant results that would be relevant in the use of one medicinal product but that informed consent should be given to parents or guardians. Furthermore, Article 18 clearly states that clinical trials cannot be conducted if the risk of testing is greater than the possible medical justification, but that assessment also again brings back exclusively to the health minister. This article clearly states that the test must not be conducted on prisoners because their position could affect the granting of consent for clinical trials. Article 19 sets out the unambiguous financial background of the clinical trial and clearly states that the applicant or the clinical trial officer must provide financial compensation to both the subjects and the persons conducting the examination, but it is very important to say here what the law does not say to the Secretary of State that a single price for all health institutions in the Republic of Croatia should be considered in the regulation in future clinical trials. So far it is arbitrary, hospitals themselves prescribe how much money goes to a legal person and how many healthcare institutions. Therefore, I would ask Mr. Secretary of State to keep an eye on you when you do the rulebook together with the Minister to make sure that there is one single price list or regulation for the entire health system of the Republic of Croatia. Article 21 determines the ministry's conduct in the event of a denial of the authorisation for testing or the termination of a clinical trial for the purpose of assessing that there is a risk to human health. In that case, if the situation arises, the Member States or the Ministry shall, with due account, inform all Member States of the reason for the clinical interruption of the study. Of course, it was quite said that prior to the use of medical products, a product should be entered in the eyewitness and the enrolment carried out by agencies that can also deny registration. It is important to note that each application on a particular medicinal product already registered in the register must be re-declared to the Agency and the Agency is obliged to re-analyze and re-enter the database. In the parts of this Act, Articles 36 to 51 state indeed all the provisions on the transport of medical products and the basic start of the release into the market of a medicinal product if it has passed all the stages of the enrolment, to compliance, through a clinical trial, but clearly states under which conditions a legal person may carry out the traffic and the authorisation of the Agency as we have heard it. Almost all articles stress again that all regulations and permits with the agency are passed by the minister to the rules. And in the end, I will look back in my opinion on perhaps the most important part of the law, which is supervision. It is known that the best laws are not in practice good if they do not have enforcement supervision. Article 56 states that surveillance is carried out by pharmaceutical inspectors of the Ministry of Health, whereas Article 57 states in which cases inspectors have the right and obligation to exercise supervision. Like that. have the right to temporarily prohibit the supply, use or advertising of medical products if there is reasonable doubt that the medicinal product is not in conformity with the prescribed requirements or that it will have a protective effect on the health of the population. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thus, it is said that it must have a high professional medical or other orientation, five years of work and passed a professional exam. But I wonder, though, what are those highly educated people who, let's face it, for a really low salary at the health ministry are going to work at a pharmacy, when at the same time, for such a job in pharmaceutical houses, they can get more money. And I think that if we want to have effective supervision and we all agree that we have to find ways to make experts in the state administration really good and pay. And then if we pay them well, they can be maximum independence in their work, and for us, in inspection supervision above all, it's important that we have independent experts. And in the end, I will absolutely vote for this bill because it gives greater security in protecting our citizens' health, introduces an additional provision in which the future health ministry rules, i.e. the minister, will settle the issues and which are today highlighted in the debate as controversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10421	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10422	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By definition, the medicinal product is an instrument, device, device, programme, material and other human use product which does not achieve its basic purpose based on pharmacological, immunological and metabolic properties and which are used alone or in combination with the software support necessary for its correct use. And it's meant to prevent, monitor, treat, relieve the disease and everything that's been said here. And I quote this because so far it was mostly a medical product that was synonym for orthopedic and other aids. And it's obvious from the debate that it's very broadly undermining coverage, to express myself so to the football dictionary of the current these days. So a very wide area from the surgical end to the pace maker, of course orthopedic aids. Of course, the legal framework also covered this area very well there. So again, let's mention the 2003 Drug and Medical Products Act, which was updated in 2004, which was incorporated into this directive by the 20th. 83nd and 42nd so I don't repeat myself. However, as the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on Medicinal Products in 2007 which also incorporated these Directives 24 and 27 that would cease to apply. But it also does not apply to medical products, it is necessary to mention it here. However, as the European Parliament and the Council of Europe have adopted a directive this 47th on the amendments to this particularly important directive 42th, we must, in accordance with this, put it in our national legislation, and we are doing so with this law. Of course, it will also be necessary to bring those 21 sublaws that will further regulate this area. So much for this legal framework, I think a lot has been said, but surely in that part we are all interested in what news it brings and what improvements it brings to the law in question. Therefore, the proposal for a medical product law brings quality newspapers, by laying down rules for ensuring quality and safe medical products as well as products of particular importance for human health protection. It's very important to mention. And the proposed law is conceived and contained in specific areas, which also enables easier application of the proposed solutions. Some are mentioned here, therefore, about clinical use I keep unnecessary really on this, especially coming back. But it's safe, I want to look back at maybe two chapters in that section and that's the chapter of the medical request. Therefore, it is also necessary to mention here that according to those directives it is regulated that medical products can only be placed on the market if they do not endanger the health and safety of patients, users and other persons. and, if properly manufactured, placed, maintained in accordance with their purpose. It's very important to mention that. And so, importantly, in the clinical section, it's mentioned in the surveillance as well. But one very important moment at a time, one chapter, this is the V. that was also spoken about, so conformity assessment, evaluation and registration of medical products. In accordance with the medical product with essential requirements, it is confirmed that the conformity document has therefore been said in previous discussions that this will be regulated by the agencies until the entry. The Agency shall, in the course of the registration procedure, recognise documents on compliance and the conformity mark provided by the competent authority of the Member State of the European Union with the prescribed requirements which are appropriate to the requirements laid down in this law and adopted under this law and regulations of the European Union. So these are the things that I want to concentrate on, but it's obvious that each area in a special way contributes to the improvement of this important area and I believe that we will support this law by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10423	Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10424	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I will also join and support the adoption of this Law, not only because it is a law that is in line with European Union legislation but also because it sets out rules for ensuring quality and safe medical products that are important for human health protection. This law defines both medical products and clinical trials as we have heard so far of medical products, the register of medical product manufacturers reviews and conformity markings and definitions of traffic, advertising, notification,... and supervision of medical products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is most important is that medical products may only be on the market, if they are used, if they meet essential requirements and where their compliance is established according to the prescribed procedure, and if they bear the conformity mark in the manner prescribed and if they are entered in the medical records of which I have previously spoken. What is most important is that medical products do not endanger health and that they are safe for the patient, for the user and for other persons. However, it is necessary, in particular, to take a special place in this law, to take medical products produced by the use of non-lived animal tissues or non-living products derived from animal tissues which must meet essential requirements regarding risk, transfer, transferable spontigious encephalopathy to patients or to other persons. That's what this is about, that famous "cow madness". A detailed clinical study of medicinal products has been developed, and what is the same here already said about who is allowed to conduct a clinical trial, who gives approval? And we saw that the minister has this major post and that he has to give it within 60 days. However, it is very important to me that a clinical trial of the product can be carried out only with the informed consent of the person to whom the examination is carried out. Therefore, this person should be well informed about the medicine, the possible consequences and what is expected of the medicinal product concerned by the clinical trial. Of course there are children. However, children may only be subject to an examination if they cannot be provided with adequate results in adults. Of course the same with a good explanation. We often hear that clinical trials are performed in patients with mental disorders, however, on minors, there is a need for the same informed consent given by a legal representative or guardian. A clinical trial should not be conducted if the potential risk of the use of a medicinal product is greater than the health justification of the medical examination of the medicinal product, which is again being re-assessed by the minister and should therefore be particularly stressed and particularly cautious. The clinical study of the medicinal product is highlighted in Article 19, with respect to the principles of medical ethics and the obligation to protect the privacy and data of subjects in accordance with the Regulation on the clinical study of the medicinal product and the good clinical practice of the minister. We've all been in situations where there's been a clinical trial and there's an ethical commission of the hospital itself. The provisions of this law apply also to medicinal products intended for use. We often say whether a medical product can also be a medicine that we've seen it can and there was a question about what the device is, and what is the apparatus? And that is why it is really necessary not only to have the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices but also the law on medical equipment or apparatus that we expect in the future. If the medicinal product contains both the medicinal product and the medicinal product makes up the whole and is intended for use only in the given combination and cannot be reused on this product, then the provisions of the Medicinal Products Act shall apply. However, if the medicinal product includes a medicinal product which can be used separately and which contributes to the action of the medicinal product on this medicinal product, the provisions of this law shall apply, and the medicinal product shall be subject to the provisions of the Medicinal Products and Regulations adopted under this Act. What we need to know is that this Law and the provisions of this Law apply not only to medicines but also to cosmetic products, human blood, products of blood, plasma and human blood cells, and to products containing such products from blood, plasma or blood cells at the time of their marketing. It shall not apply to tissue transplants or cells of human origin and products which include as their component and to tissues or cells of animal origin unless the medicinal product is produced or made from non-living animal tissues or products made from non-living animal tissue. On personal protective equipment and means in accordance with specific regulations. The main purpose of the product determines whether any product is a medical product or it is really not a medical product. Article 5 is not mentioned here, but I think it is very important under this Act, which is to remove and collect and use tissues, cells and substances of human origin, in accordance with the ethics of the principles relating to the application of biology and medicine listed in the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of Human Beings as regards the application of biology and medicine as well as the latest regulations and as we often encounter in practice in the hospital. This Law has been very well elaborated on all and negative phenomena of medical products that are referring to reports of side effects that must be reported and what must be decided then by the Agency. However, it should be pointed out that, in addition to a healthcare professional, this application must also be made by a wholesaler, producer or holder of a medical product registration. So you're an eyewitness. And all legal and natural persons who come into contact with the user of the medicinal product have the same obligation to report the harmfulness of the medicinal product. Therefore, after all this is behind it, the Agency which can delete this medicinal product and inform the European Commission and the Member States. The law is really great. He's being implemented, and I believe he'll be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10425	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10426	Dear Mr. Vice President, after the praises we've heard about the law a little bit and criticism about the bill. First of all, the legal proposal is something we have finally needed in Croatia for a long time. We have the Drug Act and we need the Medical Products Act because medical products are not only used throughout Croatia but there are about half of the budgets spent on medicines and medical products. So about half of the budget itself is spending on medical products, building materials and all that is used in medicine. The law itself is something that the European Union has recognised long ago, and in accordance with this, we must adopt this law, but it has tried to reconcile pears and apples in some way, and the part that speaks of research and medical products used in clinical research has become entangled in the law. Therefore, this one illogicality in Article 94 has been undermined. I think it would be much simpler for the law to determine which medical products fall under the clinical trial regime. These medical products should simply be based on the Medicinal Products Act and said that these medicinal products should be performed in clinical studies, such as clinical trials in themselves, in the drug law itself. The second thing missing in this law is the procedure to determine when a medical product in Croatia enters the Croatian market as much as the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and the state costs. So, we should have an independent body called Health Technology Assessment in Europe, and that agency would be an independent government institution that would help us assess when we are offered a medical product or equipment to know that it is for the Croatian market or not, and how much it will cost us. It's usually when we're offered products from the outside, then it's clear everything's beautiful and beautiful, and nobody's thinking about how much it's going to cost in itself. Naturally, the assessment of the very weight of the costs of the apparatus entering Croatia is also related to the accreditation of hospitals, but we believe that the assessment of the weight or impact of the apparatus on the health budget should be independent of the Agency for Accreditation and categorisation and should be a special and independent agency. A large area has been abandoned, the medical apparatus area has been left out, means medical equipment, and that part should also be resolved as soon as possible by the legal proposal so that we do not get into Croatia the appliances that are made up into garages or appliances that are made up somewhere in some countries that we know have insufficient quality and knowledge, and neither the products that are built into these appliances. And what's more important. These 21 sublegal acts that go along with this law are one of the most important lists of building materials that is a pandan list of medicines and that will allow for more order to be introduced into the market of medical products and that the Croatian state pays cheaper medical products than it pays now because the definition of the price of medical products is left to a higher verse and it is formed in a way that is not transparent. Probably a list of building materials to be brought to the Croatian Health Insurance Office will bring transparency into the system itself along with the process of enrolment in the eyewitness, which is actually registration, the pandan registration of medicines in this section dealing with medicines. So, I plead that this section on clinical research is better defined in the law and that it is said which devices and which building materials fall under the Law on Good Clinical Practice and that the Law on Medical Equipment is adopted as soon as possible and after the adoption of the law itself, I think that within 6 months, a list of building materials should be adopted at the latest so that the following year could be done more transparently in the Croatian Health Insurance Office and in the hospitals and health institutions themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10427	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10428	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for supporting this legislative proposal and allow two things to just point out further to everything that has been said today so that they may not remain unsaid. Clinical studies should be looked through the context of positive and useful, but not through the context of so much positive and useful for the rapid approximation of certain technologies or, as mentioned in the second law, medicines to patients of the Republic of Croatia, because then it would be best if clinical studies were not available, so we will quickly come to a drug that has passed clinical research in Germany, England, America or anywhere, but just the other way around. Its greatest benefit is that no matter how much development and progress are monitored and in the development of medical equipment, and also the development of medicines is always new knowledge, so it is true that Croatian experts in their clinical studies make a significant contribution, so knowledge of existing medicines, existing medical products and on the basis of certain clinical studies, which is recognised and undertaken in the world. For this reason, clinical trials as such in the Republic of Croatia do not serve as a means of obtaining treatment as soon as possible, but are used to ensure that in the Republic of Croatia we are sure that our citizens are offered quality, the best possible means helping through medicines, through medical products to protect public health. For this reason clinical research should, but they should be clearly prescribed and must be known what will happen to them. Accordingly, there may be some confusion, and the following article 54 should be further clarified on several occasions. Proposition on the reporting of adverse events in a clinical study of a particular medicinal product will therefore be prescribed by a special act prescribed by the Minister as regulated by the Drug Act and as we already have good practice. The purpose of article 54, which defines it, means that it will prescribe the minister is to make certain things additional to what they would say firmly legal provisions that are things. Among other things, paragraph 2 says keeping records, applying, within which time and how it goes, and paragraph 1 which has become a little unclear in terms of this article of the law is a key word right now, so I would add it a little bit to make it clearer. If a healthcare professional participates in a clinical trial as an investigator, he shall be obliged to cause adverse events or suspicions of adverse events related to medical medicinal products immediately, it shall immediately inform the marketing authorisation holder of a clinical trial, except in the case of adverse events which do not require the examination plan and the directions of the investigator. What was the point here? Here is the essence of any adverse event and so it is resolved in medicines, so it will be resolved and by means of a sublegal act of medical products must be reported. There's no dispute about that. It is only questionable that adverse events should be reported immediately. If there are adverse events observed in world clinical studies, they occur. They must also be registered in Croatia. But then they do not have to be specifically indicated in the interviewer’s instructions that this means immediately, for the word is immediately crucial. So it happens that within the shortest time possible, as soon as it has been observed or suspected of reporting. Accordingly, within the meaning of this law, the draft laws and this Article 54 and this provision in the Statute, in the first paragraph and for that reason, it does not need to be corrected, but rather what we have said we will do, which is the development of a full application, the manner of application, the application forms, all of which are reported, to which all copies go, in which way the holders of the approval will report to the Agency. How will the Agency inform the European Agency? Because we, in line with the European Union, will also have the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, as the English say, "pocal point" in the Republic of Croatia to co-operate with European agencies in the field of medicines and medical products. I believe that, therefore, the proposed law has its absolute meaning, we cannot accept the time to be late because the system of medical products was still regulated by the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and there was no legal void when the Law on Medicinal Products was passed, and the law of this kind of problem, which still falls within the category of professional laws, where sublegal acts with lists, so medical products, species, categorisation of medical products and everything else, is a comprehensive law which should certainly be regulated that, by example, we have absolute, it is called control of the traffic of all that benefits human health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10429	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10430	The esteemed secretary of state said that clinical research into medicines in Croatia serves to prevent the entry into Croatia of medicines that have not been studied enough, i.e. that medicines that have the right to effective action should come to Croatia. When I talk about clinical studies, it is not the intensity of clinical research to have medicines being studied elsewhere in Croatia, but it is the urgency that research into phases 1, 2 and 3, means the initial phase of clinical research, which would then mean that Croatia is recognized in Europe and that our patients can get this medicine examined, which at the same time they get it in America and Europe. It means that there is no need for today's patients to wait about 6 months, a year for this medicine to come to Croatia, especially in cases where there is no adequate treatment for a particular disease and when we talk about a harmful event, the adverse event is a harmful event and I think with this article we will allow the researcher to assess what is a harmful event or not. We refer to the drug law, and I would like you to consider making a simple pandan of the Drug Act and, as in the Drug Act, you have a report of a harmful event whether or not it is related to the drug or whether it is related to the medicine. So, if someone gets hurt in a car accident, and in a clinical study, it has nothing to do with the cure, but you report it as a harmful event, let's not leave in there the possibility that I'm a researcher assessing whether what happened is a harmful event or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10431	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10432	Final proposal of the Medical Products Act, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 83. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. This law was adopted by most votes, 119 votes for and 3 abstentions. The Health and Social Care Committee has proposed to the Assembly the following conclusion: It is recommended that the Government of the Republic of Croatia propose a special Medical Equipment Act as soon as possible. Let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 114 votes for and 8 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10433	We're going to the next point. On the agenda is the Final Proposal for a Law on Officials and Landowners in Local and Regional Self-Government, but the Government has sent out an indication that this law is going in 2 readings, so it is not going, when setting the agenda we agreed to go according to an emergency procedure, and now the proposal is to go in 2 readings of this law, so it goes in the first reading. - Final bill on officials and tenants in local and regional (regional) self-government, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 80 Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Administration, Mr Pavle Matičić will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10434	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The Law on local and regional regional self-government stipulates that the rights, obligations and responsibilities of officials and subsistence officers of local self-government and regional self-government units are governed by a special law. Until the adoption, i.e. the entry into force of a special law on the rights, obligations and responsibilities of officials and deputies in the administrative bodies of the units of local self-government and units of local and regional self-government, they shall be subject to the provisions of the Law on civil servants and subsistence from 2001 which remained in force in relation to them and after the entry into force of the State Servants Act of 2005 until the specific law addresses this issue. The relevant application of the Law on civil servants and tenants is not appropriate to the needs and specificities of local self-government and has led to a series of doubts that cause different interpretations and different practices in practice and a constant source of legal uncertainty. The draft bill, apart from the regular government procedure of delivery to the opinions and national associations of local units, means the association of associations of municipalities and associations of cities and the Croatian community of counties and the union of state and local officials and substitutes of the Republic of Croatia, which are also the proposals to the greatest extent accepted, incorporated into this text of the bill. The bill itself is a kind of build-up of good solutions from the 2001 Law on civil servants and tenants as well as the Law on civil servants of 2005 and experience in the regulation of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of civil servants in accordance with the good practice of members of the European Union, in particular as regards tender procedures, etc. "system measures" and because of candidates towards knowledge, skills, the fight against corruption, the resolution of a potential conflict of interest, the decision on the rights and obligations of local officials and deputies. As far as the bill is concerned, the question has been raised whether this law applies to all employees of local and regional self-government units? Although the general trend is to single out and apply general rules on the work and national associations of local units and trade unions, it has been stated that the law should apply to all employees of local and regional self-government administrations, this means both officials and subsistences, which is not the case in the system of public administration, because the Law on civil servants applies there to civil servants, and to civil servants in the civil service, the Law applies to general labour regulations. It also raises the question of who decides on the rights and obligations of local officials and how to ensure two degrees in deciding on those rights. The draft law proposes a solution to decide on the rights and obligations of local officials in two degrees in a way that is decided in the first instance by the head of the management body and in the second instance by the municipal head, mayor, or mayor, and only when deciding on the rights and obligations of the head to decide in the first degree the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor. As far as official courts are concerned, it is also proposed that local units at the county level have their own special official courts, and in the second degree, for the sake of harmonisation or harmonisation of practices, it is proposed to decide a senior official court set up for civil servants. In the case of job names and salaries of local officials, only minimum standards are proposed, meaning the indicative name and jobs that are classified in seven classes, minimum conditions for the schedule and the range of coefficients within the class with a view to establishing the exact names of jobs, the conditions for the schedule and the coefficients for the calculation of wages by local units. In this way, certain limits are set, i.e. to bring practices into line with these issues, but with respect to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, guaranteed the independence of local units in the regulation of its internal administrative structure. So the adoption of this law for the first time since the establishment of a local self-government system in the Republic of Croatia since 1992 and 1993 would regulate the working status of local officials and tenants in 429 municipalities, 126 cities, 20 counties and the City of Zagreb. So somewhere around 11,000 employees and tenants. As Vice-President Seks said, on the basis of the proposal and the initiative and the opinion that the working bodies of the Parliament and the Economic Council, the government has accepted these initiatives that this law is going into regular procedure and proposes that this be the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10435	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We'll have a club debate first. First is the club IDS, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10436	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Under this law, the Economic Social Council was held. This Economic Social Council was held on 26.7.2008, so that was three days ago. What was mentioned on this "economic social" council I will quote an article in the business journal published on May 27th of this year, and the consequence of this Economic Social Council is that this law, regardless of its bearing the label P.Z.E. And what was supposed to be the final draft of the law is going into the second reading, and as Vice President Shakespeare mentioned earlier. So local employees pay more than the state's, that's the title. And now it is said here that more salaries of local officials than their colleagues in the state administration were encouraged by members of the Economic Social Council on Monday to remove the emergency mark from the new Law on Local Officials. When they saw the proposed remuneration coefficients for local officials, they agreed to organise a debate between the two parliamentary readings to compare domestic solutions with better foreign practice, the GSV will seek the co-operation of central management offices. It is said further, I cannot, quote: Local officials in some cities, for example in Zagreb, and I will add in Buzet, making more money than civil servants, said William Ribičić, representative of the union in GSV. According to him, in the state service, experts are increasingly missing, as except for private businesses, they flee to local self-government. The state administration can barely get a lawyer because no one wants to work for offered salaries. The paradox is that better salaries from the state administration give even units that are receiving support from the state due to insufficient incomes, Ribicic said, asking for a model of some of the developed Western countries to be applied and then to skip it a little bit, in Zagreb, employees in museums are paid up to 50%. Officials at the city museum have higher salaries than colleagues in the same state-owned museum said Ribic had problems with the escape of experts from the public administration before the GSV meetings were warned by employers, their President Ivica Mudrinic several times advocated the model of additional rewarding the best in public administration, explaining that citizens and the business community could have far greater profits soon than that, and so I agree. But I absolutely disagree with the union's position. What they're going to do after this is a good part of the people, meaning local employees who are involved in the union, after these messages they have the opportunity to hear, will come out of that union. Why does it care the union to cut someone's wages, say bodies or people who work in local self-government? I'm really asking myself that as a fundamental question. Their work, so the union's job should be to raise salaries and civil servants, not to fight to cut wages to local employees now. If their wages collapse, say local officials, then we're kind of tearing down local self-government autonomy. I don't think it's a constitutional intensities, it's certainly not the law on local and regional self-government, and I don't think it's a union job either. The truth is, there's no dilemma, no salary in civil servants is appropriate. They're small, they're unwarrantedly small, and there should be a union job to make these salaries bigger and not to make them all pay to local employees less. The truth is, in one Osijek, Slavonski Brod, I don't know Požega, Knina, maybe everyone is rushing into these state services, into the police. In Istria, everyone is running away from these services because the salaries are really insufficient, so then we have another paradox to say in those services the locals don't want to go so that in the police I know I dare say, 75 means two-thirds of the least of that I'm sure, the people of the police are on the side rather than Istria. It's more or less the fate of developed, the fate of developed environments. In one Poreč, you don't have a man who works in state offices, for example. on the issue of local, construction permits and therefore it is certainly good that we recently changed the law in that part of local and regional self-government and left these jobs to the local administration. So what should be the intensity to raise wages to civil servants, but also to keep this minimum local autonomy in our cities, municipalities or counties entirely. On the other hand, life costs are not the same in one Poreč, Opatija or one Slavonski Brod or I don't know in one Kumrovec. For the autonomy of this local self-government, it is clear that we should fight, but also for this one distribution of salaries, and this will be possible if we leave as many jobs or obligations from the state to the local self-government. However, today local self-government according to the 2007 audit find has only 15.8% of the budget revenues made at the level of some 560 municipalities, which cities, which county plus the City of Zagreb. In fact, the City of Zagreb as a unit of local regional self-government achieves in that distribution about 5% of these fiscal revenues, in fact somewhere around 540 which municipalities, which cities somewhere around 9%, are below 2%, and they are at the moment when we are talking about these financial capacities certainly in the most diverse and absurd, to correct myself, the situation. Just a year ago, so 2006 according to the State Audit, local self-government had 16% of these revenues. So these revenues from local self-government as times change decline instead of growing, but that's why on the other hand the powers and obligations of local self-government are increasing. Now will be corrected soon and this non-taxable part from 1600 to 1800 kuna, again at the expense of local self-government even though we have the opportunity to listen and today it should be at the government starting at 12.00 hours in order to make part of the income tax of 3% for cities and municipalities, 0.5% for counties, 3.5% for the City of Zagreb, should be directed towards local self-government in order to eliminate the loss of the increase in the non-taxable part. On the other hand, after amending the Tax on Profits Act, which is now being held by the state in a 100-percent amount, I read it somewhere yesterday, only 4 major units of local self-government lose revenue compared to what they had previously achieved. Most of all, it loses a clear town of Rovinj and Istria County, meaning as a unit of local regional self-government. The town of Rovinj loses about 25 million kuna, Istria County itself with its 250 million kuna income lost, we just spoke to the head of finance 27.1 million kuna on that basis. On the other hand, clearly, at least from the state budget returns to the County of Istria or to one of the units in the district of Istria, which again fills the country's largest budget. That's why, in my court, this House needs to be fought for as much autonomy as possible by local self-government, but not by shutting down that autonomy, for example, by local self-government in this segment of wage-determining. Those who seek it or who would insist on it in legal solutions, such as the aforementioned trade unions, are destroying this local self-government primarily because of their inconclusiveness. The local self-government, in my court, should have freedom, freedom of organisation, freedom of performance, autonomy and the availability of financial resources, and therefore must have autonomy about determining wages. Other solutions are more or less correct, I agree that it should be improved or corrected in some way. But now let me just quote some legal provisions, for example. Article 34 of the option to carry out additional work, here is literally stated, quote: "... an official may, outside of regular working hours after prior written approval by the head of the management body, carry out his or her own affairs or work with others if this is not contrary to the service..." etc. I think that should be very precise or indicate where, when, in which case. It is then stated here in Article 35 that an official is not allowed to open a trade or establishment of a company or other legal person in the field of activity in which he is employed as an employee, or in the field of activity related to the business of a part-rounded administrative body in which he is employed. Article 36 speaks of the duty to declare a possible conflict of interest which he is obliged to, means the official, by means of written notice to the controller, means of financial or other interest which he, his or her spouse, child or parent may have in the decisions of the managing authority in which he works. It shall then continue, the official shall, by written means, inform the head of the administrative body of the natural and legal persons with whom he has been in a business relationship for a period of two years prior to his admission to the service, and according to which the administrative body in which he operates administrative tasks, etc., etc. What I think may also be to install into this law, not to touch their wages, but to certainly install them into the Institute of Property Cards. Today, I dare say, there is far less crime among the most exposed individuals in power, in the Parliament here you all know nothing to provide for yourself, no matter what we are constantly pulled out of the media, etc., but with the executive authority, in public enterprises, regardless of whether it's an executive authority in a municipality, in a town, in a county. You see, or, for example, whoever issues a building permit, it's very likely to do something for itself and its own, so I don't think it would be bad if the data on his property could be traced through these property cards. That's why I personally advocate, the more transparency this will be, the less abuse of the law. And last but not least, Article 75. These are the classifications of the posts of the officers of page 29. So it's about the classification of the payment system. I consider it given the opportunity in Istria, not only in Istria but in a whole series of units of local self-government of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, in the city of Zagreb that you should think that these coefficients simply increase the situation so that tomorrow's best staffs leave the local self-government as at this time the best personnel leave the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10437	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10438	Well, I want to correct Mr. Caine, and he's a little bit in Zagorje. Life in Zagorje is neither a kilo of bread nor in Kumrovec, nor in the rest of Zagorje is cheaper than in Poreč but therefore profit from tourism and other activities is immeasurable and incomparable and then I think that these partnerships with Zagorje are not exactly relevant regardless of the friendly city of Poreč and my dear friends there, but I must mention, let it change the geographical position in comparison.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10439	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ Club and Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10440	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Secretary of State, Your Honor, Commissioners, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. We have before us a bill on officials and tenants in local and regional (regional) self-government that will apply in 429 municipalities, 126 cities, 20 counties and in the City of Zagreb. As already said in this law, around 11,000 employees in local and regional (regional) self-government will be covered. Each day, the need for the adoption of a specific Law on the Rights, Obligations and responsibilities of Officials and installed in the administrative bodies of local self-government units, units of regional and regional self-government which will respect the specificities of local self-government. The relevant application of the provisions of another law which does not know and respects the specificities of local self-government for years has led to different interpretations and different approaches in practice and is a constant source of legal uncertainty. The proposal for this law was drawn up on the basis of text and earlier proposed laws on officials in local self-government, experience in regulating the administration of obligations and responsibilities of officials, officials in accordance with the good practice of the European Union, and the text of the proposal for a law on officials and tenants in local and regional (regional) self-government created by a working group appointed by the associations of cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Draft bill... The opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Finance, the National Associations of Local Units, the Union of State and Local Servants and Deputys of the Republic of Croatia, the ministers who were mayors or mayors, and the comments and proposals have also arrived, have been accepted and included here in the proposal for this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd just like to mention some of the questions that need to be settled by this law. Definition of the concept of officials and subsistence, decommissioning of the tasks they carry out, admission to service, rights, obligations and responsibilities of officials, basic classification and system issues, professional training and training of officials, evaluation of officials, method of termination of service, status of subsistence, supervision of the application of laws, criminal provisions, status of officials and subsistence in the transitional period etc. This proposal defines the concept of officials and subsistence in accordance with Article 56 of the Law. The law on local and regional (regional) self-government according to which the administrations of professional and other tasks in the body of local units of the district and regional self-government shall be carried out by officials and subsistence officers by carrying out administrative and professional tasks from the part-round bodies in which they work and the subsistence shall carry out accompanying and auxiliary tasks. In order to remove current doubts in practice, candidates who have not passed a state-run expert exam could be admitted to the service. The new draft law states that persons who have the necessary working experience in the relevant jobs do not have a state-run professional exam to be accepted in the service and deployed to the workplace provided that the professional examination is passed within one year of the reception of the service. This law introduces a commitment to the so-called law. merit to the system. Thus, it is a system of merit, or according to abilities, so candidates with the best competences are accepted in the service, which is determined by the previous examination of the knowledge and ability of the candidates. For example, testing, interview and, where appropriate, checking practical work on certain jobs. In contrast to the applicable law on civil servants and tenants, the probationary work for officials who are admitted for a certain period of time for a foreseeable duration of service of at least six months is envisaged because, in practice, the need for trial work has been demonstrated to check the ability of officials admitted for a certain working time over a long period of time. The rights of union association officers and collective bargaining are also laid down. The law stipulates that an official may, in the form of a solution, carry out his or her duties on his own or in his or her own behalf if it is not contrary to the service or if the special law is not otherwise prescribed and does not constitute a conflict of interest or an obstacle to the orderly performance of regular tasks or damage to the reputation of the service he performs. The official may also publish professional articles and other copyrights without the approval of the head of the body, or occasionally lecture at seminars and consultations. The law provides that an official is not allowed to open crafts or establish companies or other legal persons in the field of activity in which he is employed as an employee, i.e. in the areas of activities related to the business and part-round of the administrative body in which he is employed. This bill also provides for the classification of the posts of the officials themselves. Officials' posts in the administrative bodies are classified in 7 classes and minimum conditions are laid down for work schedules and indicative wage coefficients range. The representative body of the local unit shall, by means of a general act, prescribe the names of the posts in the administrative bodies of the local unit and the precise conditions of the professional arrangement necessary for the schedule of jobs and the coefficients for the salary calculations. Afterwards, the holder of the executive body in the local unit of the body's Internal Order shall establish the need to be specific, the posts of the administrative bodies shall lay down the conditions for the schedule to work in accordance with the general acts of the representative body of the unit, the local units and may prescribe other conditions for the schedule. What is important to say, the law gives autonomy to local units in prescribing the name of various places and conditions for the schedule, and determines the coefficients for calculating the salary of the tenants. The value of the coefficient is calculated, for the calculation of the salary of the furniture can range from 0.50 to 1.25%. The salary of the employees, i.e. the tenant, is a multiplier of the complexity of the job where the employee, or the undersigned, is assigned and the pay base is increased by 0.5% for each completed year of work. The basis for calculating the salary is determined by the body's head's decision, meaning the mayor, mayor or mayor, if the collective contract does not provide otherwise. With this bill, officials, deputies can be rewarded for their success in the work, in particular to advocate and achieve top-notch results in their work. A written award decision shall be made by the head of the body. The level of the prize can also be given during the calendar year, which can be up to three average salaries of officials and tenants and is paid according to the salary for the past three months. In order to prevent the shagging of officials, it is prescribed that an official cannot be moved from one job to another without his consent and who has more than 20 years of employment or if I move significantly worsen his family opportunities. Administrative oversight of the application of this law as well as the rules adopted under this Act shall be carried out by the Central Authority of the State Administration in charge of official relations. The inspection of the implementation of this law and of other laws and regulations applicable to officials and subsistence officers and their rights in the service shall be carried out by the administrative inspection of the Central Authority responsible for the official relationship. These provisions also exist in the current Law on civil servants and tenants. Local units are obliged to adopt or comply with their acts with the provisions of this law within 6 months of the date of entry into force of the law. Officials and deputies found working in legal bodies and local units on the day of entry into force of this law shall continue to work on their current posts, and shall retain both wages and other rights towards the solutions so far, until a solution to the schedule of work is reached in accordance with the general acts of the local unit and the internal order regulation in accordance with the provisions of this Act. On the date of entry into force of this Act in relation to officials and temporary staff, the law on civil servants and tenants of 2001 shall cease to apply in the administrative bodies of local units. Due to all the above and provided for in the draft law in Croatia, the democratic community will support the adoption of the Law on Officials and Landlords of the District and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10441	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10442	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, it is good that this Law on Officials and Furnishers is in local and regional self - administration in two readings. And then something in principle. What's most important for every administration, especially if it's a public service. Well, the most important thing is that she is fair and just in legal conduct and that she is not dependent on anyone but the law and the legal order. Despite the good intentions of this bill, without a fundamental reform of the state public administration as a whole, this law for citizens will not produce almost any positive effects. The lack of consistency between government policy and infancy, insatiable and politically dependent state and public administrations in general does not meet the needs of citizens, slows down investment trends, does not undergo efficiency and does not ensure the competitive capacity of Croatian society and Croatian economy. The reform of public administration is a condition for the progress and growth of Croatian society and Croatian economy, and it should be added immediately that without decentralisation of the state, citizens will not benefit from this law or from many other laws that regulate the work of the state administration. This obligation awaits this Government of the Republic of Croatia, not because of demands and promises to do so before the European Union, but because of the need of Croatian citizens and Croatian society. True, local self-government needs to be made, local self-government needs to be passed by law and by law to ensure that it independently, professionally, independently implements laws and decisions by respecting the rule of law, sticking to the principles of legality in resolving the demands of citizens and parties as a whole. Second. It must be ensured that it can monitor analytically and professionally propose the implementation of decisions for local political authority. The responsibility of local self-government for the proposal is in expertise, and the decision of the political authorities is to make a concept and be responsible for it. Both of these functions must be fully secured, guaranteed independence and employees of local self-government. We must admit that management is indeed the service of citizens and legal persons. If so, then it must be so no matter what political option in power was in local self-government, either at the state level. Is that how citizens feel about us? Therefore, the administrative function in local self-government must be secured and protected by law against political power by any representative body of any executive authority. Is that what this bill provides? In our opinion, no. Why? Well, because several solutions are envisaged, which are decided by the head of local self-government without the right to verify that solution in a court of full jurisdiction, full of jurisdiction. Therefore, the head of local self-government makes a decision on admission to the service, and there is no appeal about it but only administrative dispute can be conducted. And you know that the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia does not have a court full of jurisdiction. It is therefore necessary to predict, predict, that this has two degrees and that it can be complained at the level of local self-government. That's why I said it was good that the law was in two readings here. For example, we have an example to ensure by law, this bill ensures the closure, the infatuation of the administration. It is foreseen in Article 9 that the work experience in the relevant jobs within the meaning of this Act is a work experience achieved in a working relationship now beware in the national service or service of the administrative bodies of the units of local or regional self-government. Work experience outside these units has no quality proposal as a working experience in local self-government units or state administration units. I even think there, there will be, there I will have the support of citizens and the professional public that for state and local administration sometimes it is more important to have experience out of work in the services of local or state administration because it is also important to know how to evaluate living circumstances because they do so in solutions and determine. It must not be an administrative worker, an administrative employee limited solely to interests, interests to say to the authorities in local or state administration. That's why he has to be autonomous, independent, politically independent. When it comes to the bill of law, I see something that's built in like it's said in the people of the holes in the law. This is an article 14 that provides that this is often due to the need for work, that workers are received indefinitely. It's supposed to be here without a public competition. No restrictions whatsoever. So you can accept according to the bill's proposal in the local self-government of employees regardless of which place for a certain time without a public tender. Why would we open this whole press and give it a chance to manipulate itself? There has to be a specific reason when it seems to be. This is the urgency of a job or the inability to get a suitable expert, so the solution can temporarily be done. So the unsustainable are the reasons. There is, there is, the question of pay here is mentioned. That's an important question. And for citizens, this is important because the employee must be both economically independent and must be protected and that is the most important right. The question here is whether it is necessary to allow the pay level of each individual employee or individual group of employees to determine the local self-government. So, absolutely liberally, we put the problem in place and we tell everyone in the local administration how he can, as financially strong, hard, be able to make economic payments to his employees. I don't think it's very liberal for the state, for society. But it must be possible for different units of local and regional self-government to vary and reward because the interests, the needs of citizens and the development of units are very different. So one small one is envisaged here to say that the possibility of paying is indeed determined through the establishment of the budget base of the local self-government unit, which then gives the possibility that all employees of a local or regional self-government unit are better rewarded but does not open up the possibility of competition in local self-government or regional self-government and even in state self-government. It is not a solution to bring employees of local and regional self-government to a low level of salaries of the state administration. That is, the Uralwolf and the sense of justice draws us to it, but if we have decided to favour the knowledge and independence of employees of both local and regional and state administrations, then we must also open up the possibility but also the responsibility of being able specifically for specific programmes, so not every administration is just to enforce the laws. There is you, the obligation of the administration to implement some programs, so there's always a problem with whether it's a political programme or whether it's an administrative programme. Therefore, the law must also enable experts to work in individual local, regional and regional self-government. This law has not been settled. An editorial is foreseen, and as far as I am concerned, it is discriminatory or bad for us in the SDP to be prescribed by the State Office for General Administration or as it is said among politicians by Paralic's legislation. This may not be a solution well and in principle, because the ministry also provides for administrative inspection and inspection for the implementation of this law. So it's a classic problem. He's going to bring in the rules of design, about jobs, so to speak, and at the same time he's going to send his inspection to see if that's the case. This inspection is directly responsible for him, and this opens up the possibility of the committee, because they are a wider door to political pressure. Because we know this from practices in government in the state and in government in local (area) self-government already know that different treatment is being done who is where in power. It's not a secret. Of course we won't agree, especially those in power will say no. We are righteous, righteous, legal, etc. But if we were to watch individual communities develop and how much money goes from a budget where, then we could come up with clearer indicators of how it's done. Therefore, this circumstance does not give legitimacy that the state administration will be able to respond to the task of controlling whether the spending of the budget money was in line and rewarding was in line with the law's intensities. So, rewarding for the job done, for the up-to-date, for the independence and what everything is asked of the state and local employee. All I have to do is repeat that it's good that the law goes in two readings. It is very good for employees of local and regional self-government to regulate the matter by law, but we need to decentralisation the state because we do not exist for the sake of these employees and for our sake, but to ensure that citizens have as easy access to their rights as possible, and it should be increasingly achieved in units of local and regional self-government, not in the state. So, it would be important to bring this law in line, even with the intensities that we are looking for in decentralisation of the state government and the state administration. So we support law-making, but I think we should see by the second reading what is the concept that will follow the development and regulation of the state administration as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10443	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS club, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10444	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed promoters, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. With the proposal of this Law on Officials and Landowners in local and regional, or regional self-government, the Republic of Croatia is harmonising its legislation with the legislation of the European Union. Also, thanks to the government for allowing the emergency procedure to carry out the first and second reading, because I believe that, after all those comments on the boards, the law will be completed and even better. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia adopted in 1999 established the basic principles and definitions of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. After the adoption of the Constitution at the end of 1992 and during 1993, other organic laws were adopted with the basic Law on Local Self-Government and Administration and necessary for the establishment and operation of local units. The adopted laws further elaborated issues of importance for the establishment of local self-government, and then the adopted laws prescribed the authority and powers of the body of units of local self-government, mutual relations and responsibilities, the basis of the electoral system and the choice of representative bodies, the regional structure, and the financing of units of local self-government. However, the adoption of a specific and comprehensive labour law and rights law on the basis of the work of officials and subsistence staff of local authorities was lacking. The draft law governing the working legal status of officials and deputies in local self-government was also implemented in 2002. But the law to this day has not been passed. Therefore, the 2001 Law on civil servants and tenants, which ceased to apply to the administrative bodies of the local and regional self-government units, shall apply to the 2001 Law on civil servants and tenants which ceased to apply to those same civil servants and subsistence, by way of effect and by adopting a new law. By adopting, or by proposing this law, the legal status of officials and subsistence officers in the administrative departments and services of the unit of local self-government, the unit of the regional self-government will be fully governed with respect to the needs and specificities of the service in local self-government. The units of local self-government and local self-government units themselves will be empowered to prescribe and develop specific issues of importance for official, or labour relations. The adoption of this law will stop the need for proper application of the Law on civil servants and tenants, which as we have said was amended in 2005. At the same time, the implementation of this law will not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget, as funds for the salaries of officials and subsistence in local and regional self-government are provided in the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government. In other words, the adoption of this law is necessary, because it solves relations, and the rights and obligations of a large number of people employed in units of local self-government and regional, or regional self-government, and so does the figure that we have heard here about 11,000 people working in these areas. Namely, from the very definition of the name of the clerk and the undersigned, I will read the official definition here. Therefore, officials are persons who, in accordance with the Constitution and the law of the local authorities, carry out tasks in the self-government work of local units and the tasks of the state administration entrusted to those units, and in accordance with the Constitution and law, as well as persons carrying out general, administrative, financial, material and financial, accounting, information and other professional activities in the administrative bodies of local units, as well as persons who carry out technical and other tasks in the administrative bodies of the local authorities, whose conduct is necessary for the purpose of timely and uninterrupted conduct of tasks of the part-oring administrative bodies of local units. It is evident from this that without these people, local self-government units could practically not function, and I, as head of one of these units, welcome the adoption of this law. Several questions have also been raised in committee discussions, and one of the issues we have heard here on behalf of the IDS and SDP Club is the issue of classification and payment systems. For example, Articles 74 and 75 that regulate the name and place of work, the technical equipment and the range of coefficients. We who work and at lower levels must say that the practical battle is in some way lost from day to day precisely related to the wages that these tenants and officials receive and should neither be hypocritical nor ashamed to say that the high salary is no shame and that all those officers and deputies who work in units of local self-government or area deserve absolute and higher wages, but not in a way that compares only to civil servants, that units of local self-government, or people who work there are reduced, and from certain disproportionate relationships between one and the other. So, with this range of coefficients that allow practically the local self-government unit to choose from minimum to maximum, there is that part of the base that we are really struggling for because we believe it can be dealt with precisely in the wages of the tenants and officials per unit of local self-government. And before the end of this debate, on behalf of the HSS Club, the debate on the very application of the law was also opened precisely because in the fifth month there will be elections for units of local, or regional self-government and a question of relations between the directly elected head, in terms of the mayor, mayor and mayor in relation to this law. Since the law will go into second reading, I believe it will be passed before the 2009 elections, it means in the 5th month because it will also make it very easy for those directly elected to work and regulate the relations and rights of officials in units of local and regional self-government. Therefore, the HSS Club will support this bill, and I believe that from these discussions the motionor will take everything that is good and complete this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10445	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10446	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is good that this law goes into 2 readings, and otherwise we were very dissatisfied with the proposal to pass this law by an urgent procedure, as well as most laws affecting the fundamental rights of national minorities for simple reasons why such laws should certainly have a greater time of opportunity, a greater time of debate. There is still one big misunderstanding in national minority laws, in laws affecting national minorities' rights directly, such as this one. Whether these laws or at least parts of the law are possible, but these laws should be passed according to special provisions that are inquerable to the decision-making of national minorities. If laws matter to national minorities, the constitution says they should be passed with 2/3 of all votes of this parliament. I'm not saying that this is the case of this law, but we should start thinking about that there are laws that directly affect, where the title does not say national minorities, but that directly affect some fundamental rights of national minorities and start to think about whether these laws are actually passed by regular procedure or should be adopted by procedure which is typical and appropriate for the laws of national minorities. This law is a law which, not only in our opinion, but also in the opinion of European institutions, is a law, i.e. an area which affects directly in the exercise of the rights of national minorities. For employment, for use of language, and for other elements I'm going to talk about. Also, this law treats one issue that is important because it is a close area of human rights. It's no secret that most of the plays we get today and about human rights violations are about the relations that the administration has with citizens. State administration, but also administration, i.e. staff of furniture officers in local and regional self-government. When, I'll use the term administration. When the administration becomes self-sustaining, when the administration is not the service of the citizens who pay for it, it seems that citizens are the service of the administration, in these cases we are actually hurting the basic human rights of people who then have long-term procedures, who have an unkind relationship, who have to have an unkind relationship for something that is only clear to spend both days and weeks waiting in line and for something that in order countries, for example, for permits that in certain countries and for decisions that are made in regulated countries, in fact almost computerically, almost with you going through a terminal, get into a situation and solve it with us who knows for what reasons and who knows that these reasons are all fair in every respect of these words, you have to wait for a time that just means that the rights of these people are deeply injured. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities gets the most of today's performances due to the relationship between the administration, the judiciary, in this case the administration according to their rights. In the proposed text of the law, however, if we want to go more directly to the area of national minorities now, but human rights are also important and we start to think about the administration really doing the service of citizens who pay for it, I repeat, paying for that administration, and it must feel like it's looking for a service, and it's actually asking for me to get back what he paid for. As regards national minorities, the proposed text of the law should more specifically address issues related to the exercise of the right of national minorities to be represented in the administrative bodies of units of local and regional, or regional self-government. Namely, you should consider the following facts. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities has been established that members of national minorities are given representation in the authorities of the unit administration of local and regional or regional self-government in accordance with the provisions of a specific law governing local and regional (regional) self-government and according to the rights acquired. This law would be one of those laws that should talk about it and not talk. On the basis of the pre-mentioned provision of the Constitutional Law, the Law on local and regional, i.e. regional self-government with amendments was amended later. The provisions which have been established that members of national minorities who, in accordance with Article 20, are members of national minorities. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities shall have the right to a proportionate representation in representative bodies of units of local and regional or regional self-government. It's not my fault if the name for self-government, or for regionalization, is so long in our Constitution. So they also have the right to represent themselves in the administrative bodies of those units. It is prescribed that the obligations of the headship of the unit of local and regional etc. self-government, that the service admission plan determines the fullness of the administrative bodies and plans to employ the required number of members of national minorities in order to achieve guaranteed representation. It has also been established that units of local and regional and regional self-government are obliged to employ new officials or officials who are admitted to certain places in a way that will ensure that the rights of national minorities are respected in accordance with the constitutional law. We at the National Minorities Club think that and in this law there should be talk about it. In order to mention the right of national minorities in practice, it is also necessary to regulate the adoption of plans for the reception of officials and subsistences in the administrative bodies of local and regional self-government in a similar or identical manner as laid down for civil servants in the Law on civil servants. In law, it is necessary to specify the obligation to plan the reception of officials and deputies in the administrative bodies of local and regional self-government and content of reception plans, the preparation and adoption of these plans, the period to which they relate, the obligation to publish them in the "National Journals" and in other votes. When it comes to national minorities, this is also important because the exercise of their right of representation in the administrative bodies of the local and regional self-government units would be systemically, systematically or planically, because it is a problem that needs to be addressed in the long term, this will not be resolved from today to tomorrow. In addition, if the administrative bodies of the unit of local and regional, or regional self-government are not guaranteed the guaranteed representation of national minorities, that fact should also be compulsoryly indicated in the published text of the tender in order to supplement the proposed text of the law. In this way, candidates from the ranks of national minorities would already be informed in the text of the competition that they have a basis to apply in their applications in the text itself, in their applications for competitions to their minority rights. Whether they're going to call or not, that's another thing, but they must have clearly indicated this right. The issue of representation of national minorities in the administrative bodies of local and regional self-government units should also be seen in relation to the exercise of minority rights in the use of language in employment, and this should also be indicated in front of local and regional self-government authorities. This should in particular be taken into account when it comes to the employment of officials and deputies in units of local and regional self-government in which the basis of the law guarantees bilingualism and the Constitution of course. And this applies more precisely in this case to Article 8 of course we will for the second reading and again, we have, we have been prepared, and we have made a proposal to postpone this debate if there is no second reading, since it will come if I understand correctly until the second reading we will of course give the amendment then. There, when indicated, when the general conditions for admission to the service are defined, such as adulthood, Croatian citizenship, health care ability to perform the jobs of the place of employment where the person is admitted. I'd notice one thing. In European countries, in many European countries, permanent residence is a condition for employment. The permanent residence is also a condition for voting in local self-government. The permanent residence is a condition and to be elected, not citizenship, a permanent residence, but I guess we'll come to that too slowly. In Germany, we can vote foreigners who have a permanent residence and can become councilmen and can also get a job in the administration. That is why I see no reason to write Croatian citizenship here, but in the future we will see whether we will change it or not. Everything can't change overnight. In this Article 8, except for adulthood, residence or citizenship, the health capacity to carry out jobs and these specific conditions, it is necessary to include among these specific conditions for local self-governments which have, in their statutes, the intended use of minority language, that the knowledge of minority language is also necessary for all or for certain places. It's a thing that's self-comprehensible because that's what the statutes say. But I wouldn't be surprised if they were going to change the statutes because it's not in the law, so they're going to have to write it in the law. So the National Minorities Club supports this proposal for a law on officials and tenants, of course not with a final bill but as a first reading and will give appropriate amendments to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10447	Thank you. At 13.06, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. It's Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10448	Mr. President, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Like what my colleague Furio said, I'm not going to be able to prove in the name of the club a wide-ranging analysis here, we've had a bit of a time problem. The text of this law deserves a broader and more thorough debate and I think it's a good thing that this is a decision that he goes in two readings. I think that way it'll be a better law. I'm here on behalf of the SDSS Club to present four things that are important to me and seem important to me, of course not important, but here I am able to process those four things and here I'm going to present them as a suggestion first thing, the Deputy Secretary of State has defended the argument here that despite the Law on State officials and tenants we now have to pass the same law for the level of local and regional self-government. And I'll agree with that because in the area of local and regional self-government, we actually have the largest number of items, the largest number of actions that decide on the rights and obligations of citizens, and that's the level that deserves to be defined separately and that kind of special attention is given to it. On the other hand, that is why, and to such an extent and greater responsibility is to regulate this substance precisely because of this right and the obligation of citizens as best possible, not to have any doubts and yet again because of what my colleague Furio said, each administration, and especially this at local level, is a service to the public and it legitimateises the state in this respect to the citizens, and it has to legitimise it in good faith and in the best possible way. It seems I need to tell you because it seems to me that it's in practice now that it's not really happening. The other thing to say here, I'll say it seems to me that's what's key. When we talk about administration, especially about this administration in local and regional self-government, then it must have several next attributes. First, it must be highly professional, it must have a decision-making independence, professional independence in decision-making in a way that realizes what the law says. He has to have a responsibility to act by law and I'm saying it all because of what I'm about to say. It must have protection against political influences and improvisation. It seems to me that this freedom and that autonomy is now gone and should actually be explicitly, I can't quite say exactly how, but it's possible to explicitly guarantee it, and if I can say so in this law. I also have some ideas about it, I can't say them here, but the law has to say this kind of autonomy and responsibility to be strictly governed by the law so explicitly. It must be from the spirit and from the text of this law. I know it's easier to say when I'm invoiced this as a task, it's not that easy to do, but it's just because of what someone here said today. We seem to be going into one process of decentralisation, which means that units of local self-government, local and regional self-government are getting in the way, those for citizens in terms of solving rights and obligations are getting to the point and it is therefore important that it be done professionally, that it be done without any objections to protection and that it is done, that what they do, do without any lateral influence. The third thing I need to say here, and something about it is that my colleague Radin was talking about. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities determines and guarantees some kind of scope and some kind of right to members of national minorities. We have been discussing the realization of these provisions, the provisions of this law and of this place, and it seems to me on many occasions because we have been interpreted so. The constitutional law and its provisions cannot be implemented unless those provisions have been transposed and governed by specific laws. Two questions, probably more, but I'll mention two questions here. On the issue of proportionate employment, on the question of bilingualism, probably on some other issues which it identifies and which the Constitutional Law indicates as the realisation of the rights of minority members, it must also be incorporated into this law. I have in that respect, I'll tell you here, a text that if it isn't accepted in this work until the second reading, we'll give it to the SDSS Club and the National Minority Club, so we agreed, in the form of amendments. But to be perfectly precise, in article 8, which speaks of terms of employment, you have three points. We think it is necessary to add a fourth that would read: Units of local and regional self-government in which there is a commitment to the relative employment of members of national minorities in accordance with Article 22. Constitutional law, etc. At the time of admission, the service will take into account the appropriate representation of minority members in the total number, etc. If this provision is not incorporated into this law, then we cannot implement the provision of the Constitutional Employment Law, and it is tangled here by minority members in a very high amount. Therefore, simply to say so, this law must not be passed without the installation of this provision and, of course, it is not necessary to say it now, whether it will be incorporated depends on our vote for or against this law. The fourth thing I want to mention here is the question of no competition. Article 14, I'll read it to make it clear what it is and what I have my own attitude or what it feels like to us. According to paragraph 2, the invitation to tender shall not be effected in the case of reception in the service of persons employed by a state body, a legal person with public authority, the administrative authority of the same or other local unit, or in an institution or another legal person whose owner or founder is a local unit. If this remains in this form, then the possibility for a horizontal circulation of personnel in a large number without competition and knowing both habits and practices is opened in a large number of local environments and in the heads of a large number of people, so the practice we have, which people are used to doing, then this formulation opens up the possibility that in at least 50% of cases you get a job without a competition, or you get a job in those places that are important, that important and for this representation of minorities that will be filled without competition or traineeship, or by practicing or by this circulation of various titles that are local character because it allows this provision and allows all of this to be agreed by one head and there by some other man who manages those bodies, and it is actually legal. And from the point of view of legality, it is not just and it prevents us from paying attention here. Some other things about this law will give us a chance to discuss in another reading. For now, I'd like these remarks that I've made here on behalf of the SDSS Club to be respected and as much as possible to be incorporated into this law. And if the story is both debate and text goes in this direction we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10449	Thank you. An individual debate. The first is Mr. Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10450	Thank you. Mr. President, honourable promoters, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs. Let me say a few words about this topic in general, then a little life practice that paints and adopts this law. Therefore, the proposal for this law on officials and tenants in local and regional self-government is also part of the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and the basic principles and provisions of the development of local self-government have been implemented through the Constitution since 1990. Following the 1992, 1993, the basic Law on Local Self-Government and Administration was adopted where both the jurisdiction and the authority of the local self-government body, their mutual relations and the responsibility of the basic electoral system, and the choice of representative bodies, the regional structure and the financing of local units alone. In this context, the adoption of a specific and comprehensive labour law and rights law on the basis of the work of officials and subsistence staff employed by local authorities was lagging behind. The change of the Constitution in 2000 created a constitutional legal foothold for major reforms of the local self-government system. In 2001, the constitutional changes that were then made created a prerequisite for the adoption of a new Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. This is prescribed that administrative, professional and other tasks in the bodies of the units, local units of the district self-government are performed by officials and subsistence officers with a clear distinction that officials are in charge of administrative and professional affairs and subsistence staff. It is also prescribed that the rights, obligations and responsibilities of officials and subsistence officers will therefore be prescribed in the bodies, the administrative bodies of the units of local and regional regional self-government will be prescribed by special laws. And until such a law is passed at the entry of a special Law on the Rights and Obligations and Liabilities of Officials and Detentions in the Administrative Authorities of the Units of Local Self-Government, Units of the Regional and Regional Self-Government will apply the provisions of the Law on Civil Servants and Detentions, and this very present proposal of the Law, which we have heard goes into two readings, is part of the effort to confirm and adopt such a law. A few days ago here in this assembly, we witnessed the adoption or acceptance of additional points of acceptance of the European Charter of Local Self-Government with one important indication that we are also accepting some new provisions at the present stage of democratic development. And precisely the specifics that are then accepted are related to what is fundamentally related to the citizen himself or to the approach of the citizens as close as possible to him and it is clear and unequivocally clear that these bodies are local self-government councils or municipalities and cities themselves, with the fact that there is also a certain autonomy that, in the conduct of business and tasks from their own circle, they are maximum independence, that they can do so in the best, most qualitative and most effective way, of course, in accordance with the legal rules. Also, when we talk about the implementation of this new law in practice, it is clear and unequivocal to say that this creates assumptions but in every unit of local self-government. Whether it is regional, regional or only local depends on the work on the field and the situation found as well as in the most qualitative way through this adoption of this law can work with officials and tenants the best quality of work in a way that is maximum rewarded for a job that works in quality. Yesterday we also had a discussion in this assembly about discrimination on different grounds. So why not mention that, in the context of working in local self-government, we have both employees and tenants with different backgrounds, different degrees of education. So, in some ways, we must take care of the existing administration workers on the one hand and, on the other hand, we must respect the provisions of the law on the necessary professional shift and the qualification structure itself. I'm going to touch a little bit of this moment from the very segment about competitions and one new role of local self-government is not for the reason I said before, and this is the descent of all those functions of ordinary citizens, however close, but I dare say that much of the municipalities and cities today are engines and development generators in the areas where they are located, that together with the authorities actively create, both through spatial planning and through large... the activities, especially those which are an essential prerequisite in their domain and are created as an essential prerequisite for the development of space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will say today that, in the context of keeping people in those places, only a quality salary with maximum responsibility is a guarantee of the development of these local self-governments. And that's why I support classes but also independence in deciding about the pay levels themselves. I will say one more thing, yes, certainly when it comes to self-employment and it is related to point 9. I would ask the Proposer to determine closer and better quality work experience in the relevant jobs because the very term that the SDP colleague said is impossible to do, to run for part of the job related to the head office or the other is something that can't be done. I would be extremely happy today if several graduate engineers of construction with or without state exams could be admitted to their city headship but are not present. Which means we need to set the assumption that quality personnel and professions, which are needed in... be possible as potential candidates here anyway. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And given the time not to be too long. I believe that the practice of our municipalities and cities has shown that with few people, with quality and with great desire we achieve exceptional good results. I hope and believe, and that is why I will certainly personally give the support of the bill's proposal that its adoption will also be an important contribution to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10451	Thank you. Now we're gonna break up. At 3:00, we resume the session. First Mr. Branko Box, then Dragutin Lesar, then Denesh Shaw and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10452	We're continuing the debate individually. And he's the first respected representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10453	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and adopted in 1990 established the basic principles and definitions of local self-government in Croatia. In late 1992 and in 1993, other organic laws were also necessary for the establishment and operation of local units. The adopted laws further elaborated issues of importance for the establishment of local self-government. However, the adoption of a specific and comprehensive labour status law and rights law on the basis of the work of officials and subsistence staff of local authorities has lagged behind. The changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia during 2000 have created a constitutional and legal foothold for major reforms of the local self-government system. These constitutional changes provided the basis for the adoption of a new Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Article 56 of that Law provides that administrative, professional and other tasks in the bodies of units of local and regional self-government shall be carried out by officials and subsistence. Under the proposal for a law governing the working-law status of officials and deputies in local self-government, a parliamentary procedure was implemented during 2002 but the law was not passed. Indeed, the need for the adoption of a special Law on the Rights, Obligations and responsibilities of officials and deputies in the administrative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, which will respect the specificities of local self-government. The relevant application of the provisions of another law which does not know and respects the specificities of local self-government for years has led to different interpretations and different practices in practice and is a constant source of legal uncertainty. For this reason, the use of the example is done in Article 10. The bill's proposal to remove current doubts in practice whether candidates who do not have a state expert's examination can be accepted in the competition, states that the person who has the necessary work experience in the relevant jobs and who has not been given the state's professional examination can be admitted to the service and deployed to the workplace under conditions for the examination to be passed within one year of admission to the service. We have a whole series of issues that are covered by the proposal of this law, starting with the definition of the concepts of officials and deputies, the admission to service, rights, obligations, responsibilities and all the way to criminal provisions. By adopting this Act, the legal status of officials and temporary staff in the administrative departments and services of units of local and regional self-government will be fully governed with respect to the needs and specificities of the service in local self-government. The units themselves of local and regional self-government will be empowered to prescribe and elaborate certain issues of importance for official or labour relations. In Article 5, which states: “Occupied reception, work schedule and other rights and obligations of officials, as well as the termination of the service, the head of the management body or the person for whom he has written authority.” I think, working for 14 years in local self-government, given the responsibility of the mayor or mayor, that they are directly responsible for the functioning of the local self-government, that they should also be empowered and able to participate in the reception of those employees. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10454	Thank you. We're continuing with our distinguished representative. Dragutin Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10455	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, when we started discussing this bill only at that moment, we first orally and later found out in writing that the government had changed its mind and that this law had actually put into the first reading even though it was also listed in the consolidated agenda as the final draft of the law. It was not explained why, but only from the discussion of colleagues from the National Minorities Club did I realise that the only and most fundamental problem was their dissatisfaction with the proposed legal solution for the employment of officials and deputies in local and regional self-government because they believe that we should also introduce positive discrimination measures in this law if it could be so expressed in favour of national minorities. I am not personally convinced of this because if we continue to do so then we will also have to put those same measures into collective agreements because I believe that under the Law on the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities as regards formal protection measures, the system is set up in my opinion quite well. What I want to say about the text of the law is that I again express my dissatisfaction with the fact that, in writing, the Government did not state whether consulting with the social partners within the Economic and Social Council was done or not. We only had the opportunity to find out by verbal reasoning today at the beginning of the debate. And I reiterate my wish and hope that the government will accept regular practice to write about the legal proposals that have passed the Economic and Social Council. The opening argument also states that when this bill was drawn up, the Government also used the proposal for the text of the proposal made by the Association of Cities. I do not know in what way and to what extent the Community of County has participated in the preparation of this Law but the Community of County and works. There is a new president and how much they have shown interest in this law because, by the number of employees and problems regulated by this law, I think the counties should be very interested in this regulation. Furthermore, it was said in the introduction that after initial doubt whether this law was only for officials it was decided to refer to all employees of local and regional self-government. I must say that the Parliament discussed yesterday and will probably also pass the Law on the prohibition of discrimination and warn that certain provisions of this Law contain discrimination within themselves. And I will try to prove this and offer a solution: first, Article 3(2), which provides for the possibility of entering into collective agreements and for employees in local self-government and regional. However, there are no provisions here on signatories or parties to collective bargaining. And I think there's a point 2 here that needs to be complemented by who's signing collective agreements. I wrote and handed in the amendment procedure when it was still a final proposal and an emergency procedure, and I believe that the powers of collective agreements to municipalities, cities and counties should be given to the mayors, mayors and mayors, not representative bodies. That's my opinion. You'll probably have a debate with your social partners on the subject by the second reading. They will certainly also make their point on the subject. But this law requires the signatories of the collective agreement to be established given that for the first time in the next year we have direct elections, a new way of relations between forces and decision-making and the powers of representative bodies and leaders of local and regional self-government. The second, in my opinion, is a rather strange approach to law writing, Article 26, or Chapter 4, which speaks of the rights and obligations of officials. Article 26 says: “The officers have the right to union. Officials have the right to collective bargaining that they achieve by intervening the union." What about the tenants? Do they have the right to trade unions and collective bargaining? This law applies to all employees. In certain provisions, both officials and tenants are used, and in particular officials and third groups are those provisions which apply only to the householders. The right to union association cannot only belong to officials, but also to tenants. The right to collective bargaining may not only belong to officials but also to tenants or to the first article of the law state that, under the terms of the wording below, when you explain to whom all applies, that only the official is used in the text, the term official, although that would not be appropriate. Article 75(3), for me, is also very important, as this article, among other things and most of all, places of work, determines the necessary professional arrangements, the range of coefficients and prescribes other conditions. I hope that this is paragraph 3. states: “The representative body of the local unit, in accordance with the provision of paragraph 1 of this Article, prescribes the names of posts in administrative bodies, etc.” Therefore, the power to adopt a general act of the internal body is given to the representative body. Why the representative body? Under the law, mayors and mayors, municipal chiefs can dispose unless I'm wrong as much as a million kunas of one-time value. And more than that under certain conditions, and here a rule on the establishment of a single administrative department of the municipality with 1000 inhabitants is given to the representative body. There are new relationships from May next year, and that's why I've given the amendment and I suggest that we put in either a general act or a collective contract behind the representative body. Why not allow both the municipality and the city and the county to establish and develop the matter of Article 75 by collective agreement between the trade union and the head man. It's allowed everywhere else. And here if we don't write it, it won't be possible. In the following paragraph. The Internal Order Regulation lays down the necessary posts in the administrative bodies again in the jurisdiction of the representative body. Article 76 of the representative body of the local unit shall, by means of a general act, prescribe the names of the seat-holders. Therefore, this Article 76 refers to the subsistence and here I have suggested that only with a brief addition that, after a word in a general act or collective agreement, the same law and relationship would be put by officials and subsistence officers and local self-government to choose whether it would be determined by a general act or by a collective agreement. I want to believe that unions will have enough interest to be collective agreements. Where this fails, there goes a general act and finally another remark. This necessary work experience of five years for the front post in my 7-year experience often leads to negative staff selection. Because any employment with a person who has no law prescribed a minimum of work experience that can often be purely formal and those five years of working experience on similar jobs really means nothing, because we don't have any other headmasters from private companies who would bring them back at five years. There is no school that would be called or interested in the head of administrative departments and I suggest you shorten those five years by the second reading and allow people who have completed schools, colleges, acquired a certain experience and quality. Let us not slave for these years of working experience, and then we have a situation that even with judges of the Constitutional Court under the years of work experience we take something that has nothing to do with the right and legal profession. Let's get freedom to the local and regional, and let's take these restrictions off 'cause the quality frames don't have enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10456	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10457	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would like to refer to this exposure by my colleagues to Lesar when he talks about how certain acts related to the systematicisation and employment of workers in those units will be identified in units of local, regional self-government. In fact, if we take it adequately, we should apply it adequately to the Parliament and the Government then it would look like this so that, in addition to our passing the Government Act, we should, in short, also have to prescribe all the jobs in the ministries and their jobs here, it literally says to specify the conditions of the technical arrangement necessary for the schedule of jobs, and the coefficients for the salary calculation. Or, moreover, when it comes to what the body, or the representative body, should also adopt the Internal Order, and in other words, when it comes to Parliament, we, in relation to the previous law that we have discussed, should be adopted in addition to the law and the 21st Implementing Act. Then what would it look like in the representative body itself, or in parliament? In other words, we here in some way show mistrust either to the head of the local unit or in this case how we have a particular chapter now, that they have no competence over bringing the Internal Design Regulation, to determine what qualifications they need to perform certain tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10458	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10459	That is exactly what I am, my colleague Zgrebec, preparing for the debate, comes to the conclusion that, following analogy then we here in the Assembly should establish, not only for executive power, but also for here in the Assembly all jobs, professional arrangements and conditions. However, there is something else that goes in favor of this proposal that I have made. Under a proposal for this law, the election of candidates for officials and the authority of the head, the decision to elect candidates for the head is on the mayor, mayor and mayor. So that's where we trust them and give them the right to choose their associates and employees. In the part where a rule is adopted on the formation of 2 or 3 jobs in small areas or a dozen in the middle or twenty in the larger, then we transfer it right to the representative body. It's like they don't have to deal with more important things and topics, so we have to... The head of the municipality, mayor and mayor since May next year are what they were. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's keep it in the executive office, let's not put pressure on local parliaments, under quotes and stuff like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10460	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. The word has a distinguished representative of Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10461	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to engage myself with a few words in this debate without the intention of repeating anything that has been said here by the representatives of the National Minority Club, which we agreed on. In addition, yesterday on the Committee on Local Self-Government, the material was discussed and in the debate I participated in, we made some proposals that were recorded in these materials, but there was no final consensus. In fact, I'd limit myself, if I didn't repeat what my colleague was saying, which I agree on in principle, I'd like to stress the following. In the interest of local self-government, i.e. municipalities above all, and possibly small cities, we propose a certain change, i.e. enlargement related to Article 75. This article discusses working places on this classification of these posts, especially when it comes to the jobs of the head of certain administrative departments and given the situation we have below, we propose that in Article 75(2), a new paragraph 3 should be added to the formulation, which should read as follows: "Extremely from the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the representative body of the local unit, if it is intended to be the mayor, or executive authority in a municipality that has less than 10 thousand inhabitants, may, by means of a general act, prescribe different conditions of professional training and professional experience for the jobs at which the administrative body is managed, but not lower than the professional arrangement which corresponds to the professional name of the university senior, professional first-rate or professional accessor. I would ask the representatives of the Government and your colleagues and colleagues to consider and appreciate this moment until the second reading because, given the situation on the ground, in particular the Osijek-Baranja County, the situation in small municipalities in human beings is such that this could cause very big problems. I can also say that, specifically when it comes to Baranja, 6, 7 municipalities in this case would have great difficulties because I can say that a graduate lawyer, according to that new classification, a magistrate, if he does, we have so far recorded three cases from the city, from Osijek and competing, competing for the post of headmaster, usually being two, three months, possibly up to a year until he meets the problem, doesn't get a certain experience, and the first time he gets a chance and a moment to get a better job in the city environment, possibly better paid job, then he leaves that job. So that represents one particular problem. Of course, I must stress here that it especially makes the whole situation more complex and complex in those environments where, in the overall structure of employees in these bodies, the single authority of the administration must be kept in mind about the multiethnic environments and the national composition of all employees there, and the head is one of these employees, so I would ask in this regard to show understanding and that this formulation, possibly with minimal modifications, takes into account and take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10462	Thank you. Dear Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10463	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Here in this assembly, we who come from local areas, there are also mayors, there are mayors, former mayors, and there are representatives who worked in the bodies and heads of units of local administration and self-government and regionally, we are very interested in the proposal of this law, and I think it is good for me to make all the remarks that we will make during this period to install them in the bill so that it will benefit all units of local administration and self-government in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. When we've waited so long, it's not too late to arrange it properly, the way it suits us. The '92 law. For years, he prescribed what officials and tenants do, what kind of jobs they do, what they do by following other jobs, but ladies and gentlemen of '93. The Croatian state is set up in municipalities, cities and counties and there is one need for us to pass this law so that we do not have to fully apply the law relating to civil servants and tenants. So in 2002, a procedure was carried out, as my predecessors said, but there was no law-making, so that the adoption of the law in 2005 would put the 2001 Law on civil servants and tenants into an ad act. Therefore, all the conditions for the adoption of this law have been met. The basic issues that need to be regulated by this law are defined in 20 points, in my opinion from defining the concepts of officials and subsistence to the status of officials and subsistence during the transitional period, mainly in terms of admission to service, professional training, status of trainees and volunteers, evaluation of officials and subsistence who, in my opinion, were introduced in some 95, 96, and where the personal record was fully conducted and progress where the official could have progressed in the profession, and of course, would have been reflected in the payment bags at the end of the year if it was assessed as excellent three years in the order in which that Regulation stood. By passing this law, I would get rid of the working status of officials and tenants and would be fully decorated with respect to the specificities on the ground because we know that we have both islands and mountainous areas and various to regulate and adapt these services to the needs on the ground. The units of the local self-government unit of the regional i.e. Regional self-government will be authorised, i.e. to resolve certain issues concerning official relations, working relationships, etc. by adopting their acts. By passing this law, they would place an ad act on the 2005 Law on civil servants and tenants. And as it is here on page 3 of the proposal of this law, in paragraph 3 that the implementation of this law will not require almost any, i.e. No additional funding from the state budget because we know that local officials and tenants are financed from the budget of municipalities, cities and counties. I am pleased that people who have worked on this law, possibly in 2002, and so in 2005 and now in 2008 that they have used those positive elements and have installed them in this bill and have not been chatty with the offices and office law, and have proposed it to the Government, and the Government has already consulted us, as colleagues here have said, with the association of cities in the Republic of Croatia, and have also consulted practice on the ground and I believe, in most cases, respected the proposals of people who have worked for years, there are from 93 to today in units of local and regional self-government that they have contributed to the adoption of proposals of this law. So I repeat once again that I am not taking up precious time for everyone, that we will personally, because I have had the opportunity to be the head of one county, to come up with a proposal and also to invite you all to pass within a reasonable period of time a law that we already expect from at least 2005 to this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10464	Thank you. We're continuing, honorary representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10465	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Of course, it is good that the Proposer has decided today that this law is going into another reading, because as much as he is in some things of quality and who after so many years finally regulates relations in the local self-government unit in one I would say in a relatively good way and experience as it is here and mentioned, however, there are some issues that are not well solved and I believe and I am sure that not only a part of the parliamentary representatives who were or were still active or mayors or mayors or former mayors, by their contribution that you will naturally respect this, but above all improve this law. But first of all, I would like to ask if anything else that, since the law had very little time, it was very short for local self-government for them to get to know him and that all those proposals of this law, the improvement of the bill, were very late delivered. I think it would be good to do so before the second reading once again, and by referring to the European Charter of Local Self-Government that we have fully brought if I am not mistaken and consult the Association of Cities, the Association of Countys, because they exist, to see if we can see whether one consensus can then, in the end, be through the Charter, is also the obligation of the legislator and then try to see whether there are any issues that are obviously still controversial. And I agree with a colleague who said that if we had waited 15 years for a whole law that would regulate relations in the units of local self-government and administration, then there would be no rush and that it would be good to have all these different thinkings and that would aim to improve this law, because of those people who would apply this law and to whom it would apply, that then it would be respected in the second reading of the observations which the associations of cities, associations of municipalities and the Croatian community of counties would have on this bill. I'd like to know here's a clean one I got on the desk now a report from the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership that says the same goes for another reading, but it only confuses me a little bit, because even though this law is wearing the P.Z.E. label. does not comply with European Union directives because it already relies on good European practice, is it then a law that is not P.Z.E. Or P.Z.E. Why do we have so much of the Committee's thinking and the Proposer's, so I'm asking him to sort of get along? And I'd also like to say that what's the problem with this law that I'm seeing, is in three things I'm going to say. In the field of vocational training and training, only one article of the draft law and the basis of Article 56d of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government has been established, the National Strategy for Training and Training of Officials in Local Units, and the proposed law has not established fundamental rights and obligations relating to this significant area. The draft law requires the establishment of the rights and obligations of officials and senior officials related to participation in education programmes which acquire professional skills and skills for the performance of jobs, the obligation to adopt a plan because we have so far done so by virtue of the Law on civil servants and officials, the Education Plan, the Rights and Obligations of officials on the burden of the budget of the local unit, etc. So that should somehow be understood as an observation and then install it more precisely into this proposal for a law on officials in local and regional self-government. Also, this bill did not establish the possibility of filling jobs with an internal ad, which we all do together in local self-government units, so it would be good not to be a mistake to leave that possibility behind later. And what I think might say is that it is irrelevant, it seems to me, because I worked in the local self-government unit, that the obligation to adopt a plan for admission to service is good and should not be left out of this law if it was good in the Law on civil servants and officials, because we now have the right to local self-government only for practitioners of such plans. I think it's a good thing that we can sort of see where the ship of local self-government of a local self-government unit sails. And what is obvious to all the former or current speakers has said is that, in the light of the bill's proposal, the chapter "The basics of the classification and payment system" is in line with the project of the assessment of the wage system, the compensation and that I am not reading it any further, something that the CARDS programme seems to me is something that the Swedish government has been involved in. However, I would ask a question and local self-government units are asking whether a range of coefficients should be prescribed for local units, future pay base, salary supplements and the like, local self-government determines autonomously. So I would also read something that seems to me to be in the charter that we are fully, about local self-government, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which we have fully adopted, and it says that the provisions of the European Charter are of paramount importance, for example, a provision that restricts the relative importance of the administrative supervision and intervention of the supervisory state authorities of interest that is being protected. So I think in that segment, we should allow the local self-government unit to regulate it on its own. I think the people who work in the local self-government unit, the choices that have come to the local self-government unit, are mature enough in these 15 years, are responsible enough to be re-elected and that they certainly need to have faith and trust in them that they will not extort and that they will not be nakaradically. Finally, there's always that control that needs to be done, that you're supposed to be doing in the end. Of course, it still seems to me that Article 5(1) has been resolved. The final proposal for this law regulated the question of admission to the service, the schedule at work, and other rights and obligations of officials, and the termination of the service. I think it's on these issues next to the head of the Management Department because we're just finding out that he can do it, that it would be good for the head to be who he is for, to be the whole person, to mean both mayors and mayors, and not to be kidnapped by the head and then to be able to work without the knowledge of the mayor or the mayor of the municipality. I don't think it costs anything, that they have to cooperate, that in the end they are a team and they will be a team by these other elections and that it would be good for them to share these powers and that they should decide in an appropriate way both the municipal commissioners and the mayors and the mayors. I also think that, somehow, what is written in Article 119 should be thrown out of this law. It states that the Head of the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for official relations will, within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, adopt: the Regulation referred to in Article 92, which will lay down the criteria for the evaluation of officials and the way in which the evaluation is carried out, and the Regulation referred to in Article 115, which will prescribe the content and manner of the conduct of the personal eyewitnesses of the staff and of the furniture. Please, we also had a discussion yesterday about discrimination. This is one discriminatory provision that reduces the importance of the local self-government unit, so we need some kind of rule, and we need someone else to do that because obviously we're not the adultess in that local self-government unit so we can do such a little thing ourselves. I also think that when I've touched the evaluations, the evaluation of the officers and that regulation that you're about to adopt, I think that the evaluation of the officers has a purpose only in the case of quality and clearly established evaluation criteria. And the quality and clearly established criteria can only determine the units of local self-government for themselves, and not that someone else does that to them, because if such criteria don't turn it into pure form, implementation and evaluation is a demanding and extensive job, we'll still hire a mass of people, and the purpose will not be achieved by the highest grades, I know that it is, not only are officials who deserve it by their work, but then others can go. So, I would like to leave it then, in a way, that the adult units of local self-government in which people who have practiced democracy for 15 years, who have for 15 years and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia deserve the right to be treated as one serious partner, and not that we still think that we are not up to the units of local self-government to pass laws, I would say, in the units of local self-government and will not prevent the development of units of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10466	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10467	So, your colleague Denon, you called on the Charter of Local Self-Government, saying about how this bill regulates the basics of the classification and payment system. However, our Constitution also states that local self-government is autonomous in its decision-making, in articles 135 to 137. It is said that units are local and regional or regional self-governments have the right under the law to self-organise the internal structure of their statutes, and the law is, the Law on Units of Local or Regional Self-Government. It is further said that they themselves have, that they have the right to their own incomes and have the right to have autonomy with them. Therefore, such a regulation of the wage range, the determination, even if it will establish a basis for many units of local self-government, will actually mean additional financial expenditure, and then it will not stand for this finding that it will not be necessary to bring, or to allocate, additional funds. Because Article 137. The constitution says the state is obliged to assist financially weaker units of local self-government in accordance with the law. Therefore, much should be changed, or added to the second reading, by prescribing and fine if it is established that the salaries of employees in local, regional self-government are not established in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10468	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10469	Well, of course, fellow colleagues that, what you noticed, of course, the legislator also had in mind because, in the light of articles 74, 75 that treat this matter very clearly and precisely, he said that in the framework of the system assessment project that I am not now counting it with Swedish, with the gift of the Swedish International Development Agency which gave general recommendations that, when regulating the classification and payment system, respect the constitutional principle of free availability for racial incomes so that I do not now list it further as it says. And the argument that such an approach will ensure a certain balance with which a sufficiently flexible system of regulation of fundamental issues concerning officials, units of local and regional self-government will be established on the one hand. On the other hand, ensure the autonomy of those units to affect the classification payment system of their employees in accordance with their own economic strength and performance. So that's what the law says, but then we put the tables in the law and we do these restrictions as if we don't trust the local self-government unit to be able and able to just do it the best possible way. Also, compared to the solutions proposed in Article 75 of this Law, we have the views and opinions of the two committees who are trying to say that the article may need to wait a little longer and talk again to associations of cities, municipalities and Croatian counties. Because the proposed coefficient and the ranges should be reviewed given their height, with particular emphasis on the high number of coefficients in the first class where the administrative body is managed, which is the head of the administrative body in the city of Zagreb, the big city and the county. Well, I'm asking that then what the committees said and what you wrote in the light of the law that we try a little bit with the units of local self-government to correct that, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10470	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10471	Dear Vice President, representatives of the state office, colleagues and colleagues, here we have welcomed one topic which I am pleased to conclude that there is no passion, that there are no even significant differences, which they will say is a real life theme and in which everyone has one of their own life, one, so you can say a half-life experience spent in local self-government. I, like everyone, welcome the passing of the law. But I will make a few remarks, regardless of what we have discussed within the association, with the representatives of the office and several times on the subject in recent years. It is certainly good that it is accepted to go to another reading and thus further improve communication with those who may not be informed about the content of the laws that certain remarks have. Because the fact that Croatia has really different situations in these 600 municipalities and cities. And here, we were on the board yesterday talking about whether this is per bologna, what are those names, and what is a colleague... said, we have a community where it's impossible to get a man with a college, full of four-year-old or a master's degree in new that I'm not saying that you can't get some financial services except I speak in old termological terms with a higher school person who's willing to work, run municipal or city finances, because if he has a certain experience and practice right now on the labour market can get a better, more attractive, more adequately paid job with a card, with a car, a cell phone and similar things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why I think it is necessary to make sure that this range and some of these details are a little more flexible, i.e. to install a longer period of transition. On this topic, when we talk about a transitional period, there were discussions on the board yesterday, and I am a fan of the fact that perhaps another reading will appear in the autumn. Maybe we won't have it on the agenda in this last session until summer break. I think the change should come on, I'm trying to improvise, say it should take up to 1. Seven. In 2009. Why? We will now enter, if it is 6 months in reorganization, work schedule, deployment, solutions. Elections will come, new or the same mayors will come, but new conditions will come, changed conditions, certain acts will be brought into line, and where the change occurs, it will turn out that someone has prejudged the results of the election and has agreed things on its own. In most municipalities and cities, especially smaller to me, that's impossible. We also have a problem with this employee schedule because we have one contractor for one kind of job. Most executives who do and yet diversified jobs in the accounting financial section. The communal director, the communal reference officer. If I give him five, I can't transfer him as headmaster because I only have one headmaster or senior advisor. So these things I don't think we should standardize everything, big cities, okay, they have space, there's reasons, we should give people a chance through evaluations to have the opportunity to advance. It may also be less for us if someone wants to move to another unit of local self - government to carry with them to say the history of sickness, its virtues, or less. But in conditions where you don't have room maneuvers for anything, you're in a situation where you're actually going to cause what was going on, I remind those who were at that time, Mr. Shime isn't here right now, in local self-government, causing a lot of bad blood why I got good blood and this other one got very good and that nothing really important had changed for them, they stayed at their same jobs and kept the same pay and stuff. When it comes to coefficients and criteria, then I am giving one support to this approach and this is about supporting that state in the situation if the municipality or city is unable to ensure such conditions according to certain criteria which must be even more than the Ministry of Finance worked out that it has the opportunity to say they do not have the possibility to provide in the municipality of X for the functioning of the municipality enough money from its budget of the state will help with this administrative capacity with so much and so much money to that limit. In order not to happen what happens in smaller municipalities that actually the municipal administration is its own purpose, that there is actually no more money than just to provide wages and for some little gravel for the roads and the story is over. If we've determined that we have 600 municipalities, if we've given them consent, this House has given them the consent to establish themselves, then I think the state should also secure that minimum standard, and then I agree that the law finds that space. About these other things that were said here and colleagues from HSS and not to mention, now we're all actually more or less at the same wavelength with smaller or larger differences just as much from which environments we come, whether big or small. I think it's good, and here's what I'm suggesting is that after the election, it's actually a deadline for the execution, for the full implementation of the legal norms that will be adopted so that we don't put people in a position to be stressed twice. Because as soon as you announce a reorganization, it's a stressful situation or whatever the occasion is, what a change. And now that the election comes, everyone will be in a stressful situation again, as it will come to them, not from which party, but from what party. Whether one who has an understanding of the administration or not will have no understanding of the administration, whether he will be a dictator, a sheriff, or a friar. Here, a little joke at the end. But specifically, I support and suggest that the deadline be extended to one year conditionally as of today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10472	Thank you. Dear representative, Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10473	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, the honourable lady and the gentlemen of Parliament. I will begin by saying that I am actually pleased that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to the Croatian Parliament that this law discusses, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in the first reading, because it is a very important law, so I will also immediately say from the title of the holder of the public authority and mayor of the large city that this is actually a major contribution to further reform of local self-government, staff and financial strengthening units of local and regional self-government, while respecting their specificities and specificities of each individual, is socially sensitive to existing employees and also to young people who enter the local and regional self-government system into the status of trainees and, especially when it prevents corruption, provides justice, provides and provides decentralisation and economic development for the area of local and regional self-government. In fact, constitutional changes during 2000 have created a legal foothold for a major reform of local self-government, i.e. The adoption of a new Law on Local and Regional Self-Government followed by a procedure of decentralisation of business and powers in certain activities. It is important to say that the adoption of the Business and Overall Labour Legal Status and Rights Act is lacking on the basis of the work of officials and subsistence staff in the administrative bodies of local units. And it's the law that's in front of us right now that solves it. For reasons of clarification, officials shall carry out administrative and professional tasks from the work of the body in which they work and the furniture shall carry out auxiliary and accompanying tasks. So, we have before us a law that will essentially edit this whole space, respect the specificities of local self-government with all its specificities, so there will be no differences in interpretations and practices in practice, thus disappearing with automation and legal uncertainty. It should be said that the implementation of this law is, in fact, in relation to the application of the practice so far, in line with the good practice of the members in the European Union, working groups appointed by the associations of cities in the Republic of Croatia that we have already heard from earlier discussions in the debates of distinguished colleagues. This bill definitely does not draw a hand in the pocket of the state budget but provides funds in units of local and regional self-government. The rights, obligations, responsibilities of officials and deputies in units of local and regional self-government are therefore governed by law. The step certainly represents the mandatory reception by so-called. the credit system i.e. According to abilities, candidates with the best competence are definitely accepted in the service, i.e. not only through some formal fulfilment of the conditions but also through pre-testing, interviews and, where appropriate, practical testing on certain tasks. This law adopts a newspaper because it provides for probationary work for officials who are admitted for a certain period of time for a minimum duration of six months because it has been shown in practice that time actually checks the ability needed over a long period of time. He's got to tell her and the more economical she prescribes a shorter deadline by appeal. He reduces it to only eight days and the appeal does not delay the execution of the solution. It is important to highlight and protect actually the official who reports corruption so-called. whistles other than protection rights in the event of threats or other forms of endangerment. Of course, officials are also protected from false reporting, that abuse of the obligations of officials is not reported, justified suspicion of corruption is ultimately the cost of carrying out official duties. The paper is also to apply the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act instead of the present Criminal Procedure Act as procedural regulation for serious infringements of official duties. This is the decision on the implementation of the official duty, and then it is an administrative act, and it is assessed that the General Procedure Act is an appropriate procedural regulation with all the necessary institutes and that there is no reasonable reason for the application of the Criminal Procedure Act. In view of the appropriate application of the Law on State officials and lodgers in the proceedings of serious breach of official duty, officials shall decide to establish civil servants and, in order to make the fight against corruption more effective, it shall be proposed to withdraw from the service when the procedure for the offence or serious violation of the official duty with the characteristics of corruption has been initiated. This law also provides for a balance on the one hand of a flexible system in the fundamental issue of officials in local self-government units. On the other hand, it guarantees the autonomy of these units of local and regional self-government and, in accordance with their own economic forces and performances affecting the payment system. Therefore, local and regional self-government units receive autonomy in prescribing job terms and conditions for determining the coefficients for the calculation of employee salaries. Also, officials protect themselves from chicane, so it cannot be moved from one place to another without its consent, under certain conditions, so 20 years of work experience, or if this significantly worsens the conditions, and its family situation. It also protects officials who lose their jobs by deploying to other jobs for which they meet the conditions. And the advantage is an officer of course who has had better results in his work and shows greater efficiency. Here are all the reasons why I welcome the adoption of these provisions in the first reading of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10474	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the Honorable representative Krešimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10475	Your Honor, Vice President. Here's what I'd like to do with my colleague when we're talking about a job classification. So I'm going to say from the experience I have here as head of the community when we formed municipalities we specifically in Bistro in 1993, 1995, some in 1993 had little choice when we hired new people. And then, here we were, detaching ourselves I don't know from the Zapresic municipality we had to take because of that separation, we had to take a number of employees who had medium professional equipment. These people of the first days meant gold to us because they knew the profession, knew the profession, and they did the hardest and most important jobs in creating and forming here are our units from municipalities to cities. And now it's happening that we're having a mid-sectional background I don't know a reference that's here in seventh grade, an accounting reference, and there's no I don't know that's supposed to be from 1 to 1.25. That it's almost the same as a substitute I don't know in a utility company there or I don't say communal director or anything like that. And I suggest that we try to think about it a little bit because it's impossible, it wouldn't be right if now those people who were in charge of us when we were, the main help when we were creating here we were bringing the first and the foundations of these municipalities and the cities that now here they are because they have medium professional equipment and they're already in some remote age of 30 years, almost before we retire to putting them on some seventh class and giving them salaries I don't know any minimum, and they have a lot more experience. No, no, no, no, no, I think we should take care of these people so they don't end up in seventh grade. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10476	Thank you. And another replica of the esteemed representative, Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10477	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Reputed representative of counterpart Klaric pointed out that it was built anti-corruption to say the position in this law. I would say that a legal warning is in place do not play with reporting corruption because paragraph 4 or Article 5 of Article 28 says: "No stretching, so anyone playing with corruption if they do not prove this will have a serious violation of official duty." So the law, the legislator warns an officer, do not play with reporting corruption in his... 'Cause we could lose our jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is so hard written that it leaves no, no doubt that this is a warning do not report it and no, report it. And secondly, I wanted to say to those who praise or demand that the law stipulates that the chiefs, the chiefs, the mayors, decide to join the service because they claim that they must have an influence on who is working for them, are actually fighting for the unconstitutional position of officials. Because he's not a mayoral officer. He's a citizen. He must have the freedom to execute his decisions autonomously. And let them seek for themselves counsellors in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10478	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's Mr. Leco's actual experience, his reading, his interpretation of his provision. What I definitely welcome in this one provision of this law is, on the one hand, a violation of the official's duty if the official has certain evidence that he is working and expressing suspicion or musing suspicion of a criminal offence and is making it more difficult for the official to do so on the other side of the evidence, and that official, who will not be or will consider that he, on the other hand, is deposing his fellow official in criminal law, of committing a criminal offence. I am so concerned that it is from one protection that it is about the protection of whistlesmen and on the other side of the responsibility of officials who report corruption and who must be sure that they can prove that it is definitely that part of the penal act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10480	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10481	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot of things that's been said today. Maybe just a few more words. In fact, I would disagree with my colleague, Lek, because everyone actually creates their own team. If the headless chieftain and the mayor clearly mayor in the future does not have a team to work with, because he will determine who else is coming and I think it's very bad. Next, we talked a little bit about a complaint to appeal to the Administrative Court or someone else. Who should I complain to? I really don't know if the city council, the council. So we can expect after the adoption of this bill, or the Law on Elections, that in many cases it will be the mayor, mayor, mayor of one option, and the council of the other option, and that will clearly make it easier than this appeal, because clearly another option will accept any complaint just to show that the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, was wrong. So if we want to be someone who really will manage the municipality, city or county for the satisfaction of the inhabitants, he really has to have a team he trusts and works for. I think it's normal everywhere. If we look at it a little bit, I may be wrong, but often the mayor, the mayor, can be compared to the manager, because they finally function equally. The goal is for the municipality, the city, the county to make as much money as possible, and that money needs to be clearly spent very well in order for people to be satisfied. So every time we look at it that way, every manager has to have a team. I think he'll be able to do very little. As for the officers themselves, the tenants became many in '93. when a huge number of municipalities were formed. We have over 400 municipalities, a series of cities. All of them have studied together and should give them a final or a lot of praise because they have very great merits that many municipalities, cities and counties have developed normally and have actually proven that it is good that they are formed, which exists and it is good and very well there should be commended to the government that the law has finally been passed and where they are actually getting their own law. In that law, I think there are a lot of conditions for pleasure. I finally gave my team there in the city chiefship the law. They studied and watched a little. I think she's both a qualified and quality team and they're happy with the law. Clearly, the law is in the first reading. A series of remarks we've heard here from practice will probably be brought in. In fact, any law regarding local self - government should say that such a law is written for both small and large cities and small and large municipalities. It's very hard to let it all go under the same thing. They can all be found here with clear some additions to more laws, and that equally everyone will function and it's very difficult. In fact, in the units of local self-government there are and we know a lot of cities, municipalities, where in fact, where three, four years are actually different, I'm again saying political options fight for power and such municipalities and cities very difficult and slow progress and normal. There's not much we can do to help. We'll see if after the next election it'll be different. I'd just like to say a few words about decentralisation. A sang decentralisation which is so much, for which we cry so much. Maybe we should list what's in that decentralisation, do a poll of 400, and I don't know how many commissioners, between 100 and 40, are the mayors that they mean under decentralisation. I personally claim, any further decentralisation will again bring the most money to large cities. The little ones who have already received almost everything from income. What else is there? What can I get? I can get help like I get help now. What needs to be decentralisationd really still needs to be defined whether it is the military, the police, the Croatian railways, the judiciary, because the opportunity for decentralised education has many. Thirty cities of everything and I don't know 31, 32 cities took that opportunity. The others aren't. You should ask why they didn't, even though they're getting something out of income. Fire department too. Decentralisation is in one part of here health care, for example, and both education and secondary education has been transferred to the county. It can't be me, I mean all these small units of local self-government. So decentralisation is in one part done. What part of it should be made clear, and not every time we listen here in the exhibitions should be without decentralisation. I mean, it's become really political stories and politics, because without a concrete proposal on decentralisation, we all act unconvincingly here. Well, the fact is, we can only talk a little bit more about the salaries of finally state, or local officials and tenants. As a rule, I think they're bigger than the state services, because the market's starting to work. Until '93. I can tell you there was no problem getting lawyers, or building engineers, for example, or a good accountant or anything like that. Now it's extremely difficult, and if you don't give them adequate pay, people will move on. I've had plenty of opportunities already to see that we're coming. Come on, our entrepreneurs, our quality entrepreneurs, and offer our employees to come to me, you'll get almost double the salary. And now find a motive to keep them? So you have to clearly adjust that pay here. I think the proposal here is a good coefficient here. There's even a little bit can be varied by that, so there's a lot to be done there. Here's to not talking. They'll say another one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10482	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is the esteemed representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Markovanovic has the need to say that local administration is not the service of citizens, but the service of the commissioner. If you were to interpret it as you suggest then at the state level, the minister should change all the references, so the one who punishes you on the road would depend on who the minister is, not how the law applies. Well, the finance minister would have to create a team for himself, so he'd have all the tax references, so it would depend on who's in power, what your tax is going to be. That's about the same if you think a team of political executives is equal to the government. That's why it's not possible to stand up in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10484	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10485	I think that we in the rule of law must first of all stick to the law and do everything, talk again about local self-government that the municipality, the city, the county that works well. But the way you're interpreting this, I definitely wouldn't agree with that. I think here, especially those stories, that I don't know has to work for the citizens and not for the chief of staff, it definitely doesn't stand, I don't think that there, come on, I don't want big words, we're colleagues at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10486	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10487	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's what I'd like to say very briefly and thank Mr. Markovanovic when the head of the unit of local self-government sees as a manager, it's definitely about, therefore, a responsible person who is obliged to create conditions, i.e. to create assumptions that the economic, social, cultural and sports development of the unit in which the holder of public authority is. I would like, very modestly, to add to such one reflection another expression that I can definitely confirm by my work, by bearing responsibility for my city, the town of Sibenik, so I would say that this management would add a specific strategy because definitely, in addition to the reform of local self-government in which we can testify that the developed democracies in Western Europe were the process in which they worked for several decades that, besides the reform of local self-government, we also have strategic provisions that we have to change concretely further development and even, I would say conditionally resuscitating the city. So specifically for my town of Sibenik, from the city of the black heavy industry, which is strategically determined on another branch of the economy where, besides small and medium-sized enterprises, the main word would be tourism. So, with management and strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10488	Thank you. And a third replica. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10489	So I'm surprised that colleague Markovanovic's decentralisation only observes through the fiscal incomes of local self-government units. Well, then we say we've lowered the maximum income tax, so it's not enough for some units either. Decentralization is far more than that. Decentralisation means that putting down certain jobs to local units most efficient at this level can be achieved to benefit citizens, followed by a certain and fiscal decentralisation, i.e. the reduction of funds. What's the problem today that we have that kind of thinking? It is precisely because the current structure actually makes it impossible in one part of decentralisation because both fiscal and humane majority of our units of local self-government are actually limited. When we were in '93. In the years passed by the Law on territorial structure, neither the economic power nor the fiscal power of future units of local self-government were taken into account, so the municipalities in any segment or cities because everything was centralised at that time. It is therefore necessary to start an analysis as well as talks in some countries that last for a decade on the new establishment of local self-government units, i.e. municipalities and cities. There is a possibility that those who are able to perform certain tasks, who are better at that level, are doing so. So, a year, two years ago, we brought some changes to the functioning of local self-government units when we transferred to some of the cities, and we transferred certain powers to the county. So this should move on, continue the work, and those who cannot do it will then come to the conclusion that such a municipality that cannot be in their position will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10490	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10491	Well, here you go, dear fellow, I think there's a lot I really wouldn't agree with. In fact, transferring jobs has to go parallel to fiscal decentralisation because actually someone has to do them, finally. If we speak again, if we return to cities and municipalities, in many cities and municipalities very, very few employees. So they already have enough work to do, so without some transfer money, it's hardly going to happen. But again what we don't agree on. I'm speaking again in general. Decentralization, decentralisation, what decentralizes? What jobs? I think now, here, urbanism has been passed on to big cities. Small towns or small municipalities could hardly take over urbanism. So, what's left? I agree, one should really talk about it and let's see what it is. I think we'd probably agree on a lot, but we certainly need to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10492	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10493	Here, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will try very briefly to say something about the very proposal of the Law on Officials and Furnishers in local, or regional self-government. First of all, I will say that I welcome the adoption of the law for one basic reason why we have been waiting for 15 years, until now it has been applied or is now applied to local officials and deputies of the Law on civil servants and tenants, which has caused a lot of doubts and different interpretations, I would say once and for all, the inability to conduct an administrative inspection and lead to litigation and certainly one such bill that goes to another reading is one new quality and importance which, I would say finally after 15 years, applies to local self-government. I will say that I would be pleased that, with this bill, as we have a statement of compliance with the acquis of the European Union, we also have the views of the associations of cities and municipalities, i.e. the Croatian community of counties as a contribution to this material in view, and that is what the Charter of Local Self-Government, which we have recently accepted, has already said. Well, here I would ask the promoter that since the law goes into second reading, then we also get the views of municipalities, cities, or counties, because these are issues directly affecting the working status of officials and tenants and the rights resulting from them. Certainly, since there have been talks here and the decentralisation of the European Charter obliges us to carry out public affairs at the level closest to the citizens, and I personally think that there is a lot of room for functional and fiscal decentralisation. What has been said so far is that in 2001 it has started with decentralisation in health, education and social care, but I would say that in fact the authorities of cities and counties have been transferred, and this has not been followed and fiscal transfer means original revenues to counties and cities so that we know that today's government decisions by minimum financial standards whether in education, health and social care are financed, so we can talk about some decentralisation in the clues that I call it. What I would also say about the Law on Officials and Landowners in local self-government is that it is necessary in this second reading until the end to so say to consider Article 75 relating to the classification of employees' posts in local or regional self-government precisely because this also affects the fiscal capacity of each unit of local self-government, i.e. regional self-government, and indeed it would be good to use this time together with cities, municipalities, counties that these range of coefficients that are here are maximumly consistent with realistic possibilities. We know we have small municipalities, for example. I will mention in Istria and in the municipality of Lavsce with 400 inhabitants, and we have large cities also that have over 50,000 inhabitants and certainly also the conditions of professional preparation, but also the coefficients that are here to give are one to say the area where we should use this time to the second reading and maximum harmonisation of this law. I'm glad there's one consensus on the bill. We will strive to make amendments wherever we can to make proposals to improve certain things in the bill itself, and we will certainly support adoption on condition that certain things are improved through other readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10494	Thank you. And we still have our distinguished representative, Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10495	Dear Vice-President, proposing representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will focus my very brief discussion only on Article 75 and Article 78 of the proposed law. I would like to say that in Croatia, we have 540 cities and municipalities that have very different fiscal capacity and because of this fact, a greater number of units of local self-government could, because of the application of the Article 75 which we have in the law, therefore, have major problems in fulfilling its legal obligations aimed at meeting the needs of citizens, which is why these units of local self-government have been established. On the one hand, to municipalities and cities in the decentralisation process, it lowers more and more complex jobs for which it is necessary to provide professional staff. On the other hand, it is really hard to get em because we heard what they are not on the labour market, because it is difficult to provide the necessary financial resources to pay the salaries given the really limited budgetary opportunities. That is why I support the view that a number of my predecessors have said in their discussions, that for smaller units of local self-government, I mean municipalities below 5 thousand inhabitants, so that they have been able to identify more flexible conditions for the employment of officials especially for the jobs of the head of the administrative departments and for professional education and for the coefficients. In this regard, I would like to point out a particular problem related to Article 78(2) which determines that the basis for the calculation of wages determines by its decision the municipal head, mayor or mayor, unless the collective contract clearly sets out otherwise. In practice, this basis is actually a big problem, because a significant number of municipalities, i.e. cities, have in their internal acts, so in the rules on salaries as a basis for the payment of salaries and material rights of their employees, built-in average salaries in the county, because they do not want to bind salaries to national averages, they want to share the fate of local, or regional environments. And that information, therefore, is not officially published by anyone at the county level so that unofficial data is used by any county statistical offices, either FINA or in some other illegal way obtained data. Therefore, it should also be resolved that, at lower levels, I am primarily referring to the county, setting out an obligation to make official publication of the information on the average monthly salary paid as the basis for paying the salaries of officials in regional and local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10496	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Pavle Matičić, Deputy Secretary of State of the Central Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10497	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Very shortly first of all, thanks to everyone who discussed this bill and supported its adoption to both committees and all working bodies and committee clubs and certainly representatives and MPs. From all this debate, we can conclude that unanimity is a commitment and a position that it is necessary to pass the Law on local officials and tenants, I don't think there were any disputes. In particular, I would like to point out that the Government took care when proposing this law to ensure the independence of the units of local self-government established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the European Charter of Local Self-Government. In the part where some things are in the government's view needed to be more detailed in that part, certain provisions are more detailed, but where special diversity of local self-government units, their size, fiscal and economic capacity is less. In fact, this law also relies on the Law on local and regional self - administration. When we talk about the structure of the administrative bodies. The Law on Local and Regional Self-Government has arranged for the establishment of administrative bodies, such as administrative departments and services, to be governed by the general act of the representative body. So that part we have arranged for the general acts, so the general act on the formation of whether some unit of local self-government will have five, six or ten or eleven, or twenty administrative bodies and the administrative departments is a matter of the representative body, that's arranged. And internal order regulations are passed by executive bodies. The internal order rule is not a general act. It's an act of internal formation, and it's only brought by the mayor, the mayor, or the mayor. And in that body are also these provisions on the trail and existing provisions that we have governed by other laws. As far as this problem of expertise and expertise is concerned, and if we have personnel, that's certainly a problem, and there's a local problem in the state administration as well. However, if we are leaving the possibility of legally exercising citizens' rights, then it is one issue that is equally complex in all units of local self-government. It is equally complex to adopt statutes, budgets, tax decisions, decision on municipal compensation, decision on municipal contribution in both the small municipality and the large municipality. To make a solution to the communal fee, the communal contribution is equally complex whether you make 100 solutions or 100,000 solutions. The volume is larger but the complexity is the same. Not because it's a small municipality, so the complexity of the business is lower. Even the other way around. In a small municipality, if you don't have personnel, then a single official has to do more work. In this regard, if we reduce the level of professional preparation, the question is how much we ensure that the administrative bodies of local self-government are legally employed. So it's not an intensities here in terms of creating some strict conditions, but it's the basic intensity of achieving or allowing citizens to exercise their rights legally. They can do that eventually when we have insurance and representation and expertise. In this context, we often refer local self-government units to one co-operation, agreements, joint performance. That part of the activity doesn't go too well if, in each unit, the question arises whether it must be the secretary of the representative body. It could have been possible that if we didn't have a lawyer, two or three units could be one person who would be doing these jobs, I don't know maybe some others, but that's the possibility provided by our Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. In that sense, we think that we need to have these elements uniquely so that we can also transfer this process of decentralisation to local self-government units. If we do not create conditions there is a question of who will be doing these tasks in the process of decentralisation. As far as wages are concerned, we think that in this example the government has very flexiblely or minimally arranged this issue. In the members of the Council of Europe, we have different examples of a very liberal approach to the application of the wage system to the entire public administration, meaning state administration, local self-government and public service. You have somewhere to apply the salary between local and state administration in the same way. We've basically left space here just for the independence of local self-government units within these minimum criteria that create the conditions that we don't have such a different system. And I mean, I'm going to end up with all the comments and suggestions that have been made that will be welcome in the second reading to propose solutions, and that we're going to show ourselves to all these remarks, but that we all try to see something together that we still pass this law and it is necessary in order to meet these political criteria in this part too, because we do not comply with European Union regulations, but we are harmonising it with the political criteria within the framework of reform of the system of state administration and local self-government or public service, and I think that's how I'm going to say we're going to meet that political criterion. And in that sense, the government will most likely not wait until autumn to propose a final bill. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10498	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, tomorrow, on Friday, we'll have one part of the work session right away at 9.30 p.m., and that's what we've predicted now is just a vote on the debated items of the agenda and then at 12 o'clock in the second part, it's going to be the annual session of the Day of the Croatian Parliament on 30 May, so please let us take care of the tables, unnecessary papers, etc. Because there will be guests here tomorrow. So tomorrow we'd start voting at 9.30 p.m., we'd have one break to sort out the space for this solemn session. I'm asking clubs to take care of the little eye. I am also concluding a formal debate on this agenda item. We'll decide most likely tomorrow. Final proposal of the Law on officials and tenants in local and regional (regional) self-government, in first reading, P.Z.E. No. 80. The debate is closed. The government has proposed that this law be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the First Reading Rules of Procedure which we have done. In accordance with the proposal of the Government and the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusions: First, the proposal for a law on officials and tenants in local and regional (regional) self-government is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Let's please get involved and vote on this conclusion. The result? This conclusion was accepted by the majority of votes, 120 votes for and 5 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10501	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me give you a brief explanation of the bill. During the last amendments to the Law on Fundamental Education, one conclusion was reached in the Croatian Parliament, which said that a new law should be passed, on the basis of this and on the trail of the plan, the document of the development plan from 2005 to 2010 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we propose this law to the High House. This time we have laws on education and education in primary and secondary schools for the first time as a single law, as part of a single system of education and education. The important news we bring in this law is this. First, the adoption of a network of school institutions and programmes in order to ensure the availability and rationality of the attainment of the educational process is arranged so that it is determined by the founder, and it gives its consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry. So far, this has been resolved differently in these two laws in the case of primary education, which was done by the ministry on the basis of a proposal from the founders, and in the case of secondary schools, the founder forwarded it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is now uniquely resolved, therefore, that it is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a proposal from the founders. Furthermore, we introduce external evaluation and self-valuation in order to monitor and improve the quality of primary and secondary education. Important regulations allow this in high school and not in primary school. So now we're doing it uniquely in both of these systems. The external evaluation of education has already started in 2004 with the adoption of the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education and the implementation of the first national exams in secondary schools in 2006 in May. Furthermore, here we find that the national high school graduation and four-year vocational schools have been attended by students since 2010, since school 2009/2010, more specifically since May. So, education ends with state graduation in high school and four-year vocational and art schools, but the possibility is open that four-year vocational arts schools unless they want to continue their education in the educational verticals can pass their professional exam and go into the world of work. If they want to continue studying, they have to pass state's graduation and move on to the educational vertical. Furthermore, according to this proposal, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports adopts the National Curriculum, and schools are obliged to bring their school curricula. The protection of the rights of pupils and the obligation of the school director to inform the competent authority of the violation of the right of care and other competent authorities is also defined. A common electronic register of school institutions and queens with belonging records shall be introduced. A licence shall be introduced for the work of teachers, teachers, professional associates, and the first licence shall be considered a professional examination. The license is all due to be renewed every 5 years after the entry into force of this law. All teachers, teachers and professional associates who have passed a professional exam are also considered to have their first work licence. Of course, this will be settled under a legal act, or regulation, but now I want to say that after the first license, and we said that this is their professional exam that they pass within a year of their first job, that in those five years they need to win a certain number of loans. Of course, we're not going to go too far, but we're also going to open up an additional deadline that's going to go beyond the scope of these five years. We want this to be flexible because of what can happen to someone for really justified reasons of prevention, whether it's a longer disease or something else, to open it up to them. In this way, we really want everyone to follow well and have the appropriateness to work in school institutions. Furthermore, classroom teachers in primary school who acquired higher professional training before '92. Years and teachers in primary school who acquired higher professional training before '91. years can still be teachers in their schools. So their acquired right is not questionable. Unlike the current situation, therefore, when directors contracted with everyone, whether it was work indefinitely, whether it was work for a certain time or for that intervention period when they hired someone for a shorter period of up to 60 days. We now propose a solution to continue to be made by directors, but in cases of employment for a certain time and indefinitely with the consent of the school board. In cases where there is an urgent need to engage someone for up to 90 days, given that such situations in our schools are common and that it is difficult if a week or two days are lost to compensate for lost hours, the possibility of hiring for up to 90 days is open and the principal does not need the school board's consent in that case. When I mentioned the directors here we tried to go with better solutions than these so far we had. You all know that the current solution was next. The director was elected for four years without being able to return to his original post, so up to 3 years someone could work for a certain time, after which no longer and rarely happened that after the end of the term of office, unless they were re-elected, they had no more jobs in their school. I would quite say an unfair solution to the fact that many times it has been done for people who do not have many years until retirement, for example, between 55 and 60 years and at that time, it is really quite difficult to look for another job, and if the director has been chosen by those candidates who were the best who competed, who wanted to compete, then he really shouldn't be thanked in such a way that after the term of office, you will end up on the street. For these reasons, we have opened up the possibility for directors to return to their post after the first term of office and, most importantly, after the second term of office, to return to their post after the second term. After that, if you take the third term, we no longer guarantee it, we think this is enough. We also propose a solution that the mandate lasts 5 years as in most European countries as opposed to the current 4 years. Of course, this is a suggestion. Furthermore, we also propose on the basis of previous experiences that the director who has been resolved that for the next 10 years cannot be the head of an educational institution. So, unfortunately, so far, we have had in rare situations "the truth God" of such decisions by the school boards. The principal's been relieved. He was dismissed for breaking the law, and he came to this place to enforce the law and to be re-elected by the school board for its resolution as acting director and then re-elected after the competition. So it's really an extreme situation that we have to disable by law and for these reasons we've decided to do this. So not to prevent him from never being a director again in his life, but for a certain period of time, it must be said clearly that such behaviour at the head of an educational institution is simply not allowed. We are also introducing an institution of consent to the appointment of a director by the minister on a proposal from the three-member commission. This means that the school board chooses the principal and the minister gives consent. In most cases, the estimated deadline is considered to be a consensus, and perhaps in extreme situations, if it is similar cases that I mentioned earlier, that consent may be denied. So this is a kind of protective measure so we don't have any unwanted situations. We are convinced that such situations may be very rare but in any case we had to predict it. Allow also in the last discussions when we talked about amendments and amendments to the Law and on secondary and primary education there were such warnings in this House that there should be some way to consider consent to these appointments. Furthermore, in our school institutions in elementary schools, we have first of all over 40% of the principals who have higher professional training. We now propose that since 1 January 2012 they can only be persons with high professional equipment. We leave enough time for all those who want to upgrade their education so that they can do so and can compete evenly after this deadline. Similarly, this required level of education and licensing will apply from 1 January 2012 to prepare the system for a higher education standard. We further propose here to change the structure of the school board, and during the last discussions we talked about it, and often we were able to discuss this matter with the members of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture. We now propose nine instead of seven members of the school board so far. We suggest that the structure be the following: that one member be directly appointed by the Working Council or by workers directly in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Law. That the other 8 appoints a founder in a way that appoints 3 of their representatives to the school board directly. To appoint two members at the proposal of the Office of State Administration. To appoint 2 members at the proposal of teachers, teachers and professional staff, i.e. teacher's, teacher's or raiser's council. And to appoint one member from the parents' order on a proposal from the Council of Parents at school but one who is not a worker of that school. Of course, we have our teachers working in schools that are parents, so they might be named from the ranks of teachers. So we're asking him to be a representative of the parents but who isn't an employee of the school. Since there have been a lot of objections that it is not the best in some cases the qualification structure of those on the school board we have now suggested that when it comes to the founder and his 3 members who are appointed directly to the school board that they have the least completed expert study and 180 ECTS. And also a proposal for 2 members from the Office of State Administration to also be the minimum level of expert study and 180 ECTS as a rule of teaching direction. In fact, we open up the possibility of really very qualified people being on the school board to decide on all those issues on which the school board decides as the school's managing body. Furthermore, the news is that we have expanded the possibility of progress. So far we have had an open opportunity for all teachers and professional associates to advance in calling mentors and calling counselors. Of course that's even cash quantified by 8 and 12%, respectively. Now we propose in this first reading that it be 5 levels of progress. So let's open up the possibility for young colleagues to advance into someone calling before calling a mentor, but also for others to advance into titles that will be higher than mentors and higher than counselors. We didn't say here what we're going to call this advance in calling, but I'm asking you to contribute to this with your proposals, to define this in the next reading because we want to make it very clear in the law what are the degrees of progress and the rule will determine what is the way to achieve it. So this whole procedure. This law is also partly aligned with the acquis of the European Union. So it is specifically about the directive and the education of migrant workers' children in such a way as to prescribe that equal availability and equal conditions of education for children of European Union citizens and children of Croatian citizens. The provision of special assistance in learning Croatian language and helping children of citizens and children, children of citizens of the European Union and children of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been educated in a Member State of the European Union and continue education in the Republic of Croatia is also foreseen. The right of children of citizens of the Member States of the European Union to acquire knowledge from the mother tongue and culture of their country of origin is prescribed. And in the end, I have to point out one more thing, given that there was a matter of this on the parent board, just to remind you. The government of the Republic of Croatia has determined that professional education will be governed by a special law and we have accepted the obligation to refer the bill to the parliamentary procedure in the fourth quarter of this year. Finally, let me say briefly that the necessary means have been provided for the implementation of this law, as established by the Parliamentary Committee on Finance and Budget, and that before sending to the parliamentary procedure by the motionors, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this should have been determined precisely. Had it not been established, of course, that this proposal would not have even come to this House of Commons, so the agreement with the Ministry of Finance found that 63 million to be missing for cross-border transportation of high school students would have been secured by budget rebalancing. So, by the end of the summer session of the Croatian Parliament, this will be the funds needed for those four months this year when we will cover the interurban transport of more than 5 km and students who will enter the second class next year, and the national programme of measures to introduce mandatory secondary education that you brought to this House last June 21st provides this as one of the encouraging measures. Finally, respected MPs and MPs, I would like to begin by thanking you all who will participate in the debate and who in any way will help us to improve in any way with your comments and your suggestions to help us improve this proposal that we have made in front of you and get better prepared for another reading. I am convinced that such proposals will be, because such announcements have been made, so all this that happens and beyond your discussions that you will have on behalf of the club, either individually if you have any other suggestions I ask you to deliver to us as promoters. Your Honor, Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10502	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the intention is to end this item of the agenda today. We have four clubs and 10 individual debates, for orientation, and please note that we would not forget the key to the vote in the morning at 9.30 p.m. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10503	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 5th session on 29 May, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the proposal for a Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school, P.Z.E. 84. Dispute him as a parent working body. As usual, the opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. A very extensive debate has been conducted, and I mean a very substantial debate in which a number of proposals have just been made in terms of what Mr. Secretary of State has said that this law, the bill, until the second reading as much as possible, is being improved. The proposer explained the need for the adoption of the law for a number of reasons, and the need to comply with the activities of primary and secondary education with the obligations to join the European Union. In this way, the law proposes a solution to the situation of the children of the citizens of the European Union Member States in education in the Republic of Croatia as well as the children of asylum seekers. The bill also introduces new solutions already normically established in the period following the last amendments to the laws that regulate the area of primary school and secondary school education, external evaluation, and some issues such as the promotion of teaching staff seek to regulate better and more gradually in favour of more ambitious teachers. The introduction of a higher number of titles as opportunities for advancement has been welcomed, but the proposal leaves an open doubt that should be precisely called. It shall be assessed as an acceptable introduction of the licence as a prerequisite for the work of the teaching staff. The position of the principal in the primary school as well as the composition of the school board also seeks to regulate in a more appropriate way, starting with previous experiences. On the occasion of the proposal, the administrative adopted national pedagogical standards for various levels of education as well as the obligations undertaken by the State in the area of the procurement of textbooks and the transport and accommodation of secondary school students were taken into account. The elements for establishing a network of school institutions are also given, the principles on which the network should rest, as well as the relations of the entities involved. This law, for constitutional and legal reasons, could not even the secondary school with basic education in terms of obligations. But the proposal takes care of the possibility and need of constitutional changes. Participants in the debate supported most of the proposed improvements in existing solutions. However, they pointed out the need to bring individual institutes in line with both the proposed law and the individual articles, as well as other acts in the first instance of state pedagogical standards and the Law on Institutions. A series of remarks and proposals have been made regarding the proposed solutions set out in this comprehensive legislative proposal. It is asked by the applicant to work towards the consistency and accuracy of the proposed solutions, and examples are given that part of the proposed solutions should be more thoroughly reviewed until the second reading of the law in order for the areas of primary and secondary education to be jointly regulated to a greater extent functionally and less mechanically. It is generally noted that too many issues are left to regulate sublaws. Therefore, too many issues are left to regulate sublaws, i.e. where such a solution is justified, the law must offer and establish frameworks, i.e. framework sizes within which sublegal acts adopted by the minister should be moved. On the occasion of the establishment of separate programmes for minority students, the proposal was observed to be heading towards increasing the obligations of schools and interested students. When it comes to meeting students with the language and culture of the national minority, i.e. the nation of origin. The issue is difficult to resolve uniformly, given the differences in opportunities and needs, but the applicant should work on finding the best solutions. The issue of the structure of the school boards has also been discussed, with an effort to suggest to the applicant on the basis of previous experiences the most appropriate proportions in the representation of representatives of school staff and local community representatives in these bodies. The need to appoint and recall the school's headmaster has been supported by the power to question the head of the school's mandate if it violates the law. Especially in cases where the school board has placed itself on the side of the principal, in which case, it is clear that the minister should have the possibility of intervention. Solutions have been proposed in relation to the distinction between professional and artistic schools. It has been noted that the net adoption of state pedagogical standards in two places is questionable by establishing that some of the solutions in the sublegal acts should be, in general, under quotes, rather than unconditionally in accordance with the law. After a debate was held with the majority of votes, 6 for and 3 against the next conclusion was reached. The Committee proposes that the Croatian Parliament accept the proposal for a law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. All proposals and remarks will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10504	Thank you. Do the other committees want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10505	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honorable representatives of the ministry, the secretary of state and the secretary of state, the honourable MPs, the honourable MPs. Let me start by saying on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community that this is the most complete, most complex and comprehensive Education Act in the Republic of Croatia since its modern existence. Why? Very simply, its 167 articles testify to the growth and modernisation of Croatian education, and if you want, by harmonising with the spirit of European experience, I will say to the spirit because there is no single system of education in Europe or in the world, we have our original Croatian and we grow up on it and we have added some content that we did not have in our system before. This law puts it in one balance, in one integrated whole, and therefore it is to be congratulated on those who have proposed it and to say that this is nevertheless a fruit of the long work of this government, which, in its fifth year, could have passed one such law. I'm going to show in the introduction here, which would mean that it improves what we didn't have. You see, here in one part we have a whole that provides a curriculum and a program and connects it to the school and national curricula, what is offered to Croatia has as its original approach and that possibility has been exploited. This is precisely what shows that the curricula and the programme and then the achievements that are given to education in primary and secondary schools have been linked to one whole and that there is interdisciplinaryism and conclusions with the national or national curricula. I keep it the most important here, and we certainly have to be patient here. That's why there are so many sublegal acts that are needed, which may be a little hidden here, but we have to believe that in the same spirit, the process will go further because this should now be brought back to life in practice. Therefore, this law offers what is offered as communication and puts a student in the middle of attention, opens and regulates all relations between schools and parents, schools and founders, schools and the surrounding community, these are the gains that need to be followed in detail. It should also be said that this law provides a clear network of primary and secondary schools. But let me have a little dyspression. The great wealth is in the fact that in Croatia, political elites have realised that for the future of Croatia it is very important to extend compulsory education, so that we get the situation that primary and secondary schools function as a whole, function as compulsory education and give their citizens a better chance. It's very important, so high school yet, we've heard from reason there are some obstacles that should lead to the end, but that intensity is safe and in that spirit goes. In this respect, this law is even more important because these two systems that may have seemed separate now make up one whole. That proposal can't come by finger-tiping. We have to be patient, we have to work on that merger. Because please, all sciences go into basics and high school, but they come in as refined values, so they're spilt, and you know that the greatest weaknesses are individual, which is partial, and in school is complete. Therefore, in communication those who do so can achieve more, it is possible to simply give it, it is possible to fix, it is possible to supplement. I want to say one more thing, that even the records that this law requires to be conducted, I can tell you, five years ago we didn't have a clear record of Croatian schooling, we didn't even know what numbers it was. It's being fixed now, it's being solved by electronic means, so we get those wholes. Secondly, the monitoring and evaluation of students finishing the state's graduation, a completely clear vertical is created. Also, independent external evaluation and self-valuation, also a new institute and element to be installed, to be revived, to be revived, to be brought to life. It's not little things. Because this High House will certainly be able to get reports about it in a few years, and then you will know where that money is used, whether it returns those results, whether those people who finish those schools have a better chance of living and can earn those rich pensions that Croatian citizens need, or whether they are those actors of life and creation in Croatia. I also want to point out here that in one part of this law, however, this law is harmonised and rightly carried by P.Z.E. Mark number 84 because it harmonizes with the European regulatory and legal gain exactly the part that is concerned with asylum seekers and the people who can come from the EU territory to live in Croatia and can give their children to education and administrative schools this law commits to support these people in getting to know and learning Croatian language in order to integrate better and faster into Croatian society, which ultimately makes Croatia the right European country as others. I will, in my presentation here on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, look at some specific situations and since this is about first reading, how should I pass such a complex law, suggest perhaps some small improvements that are seen, but I would like to put them somewhere and better standing so that in Article 4 where the objectives and principles of education that are fantasticly complex are discussed, I would suggest something else in point 5. Educational activity at the school institution is based on the partnership of all educational factors at local, regional and national level and I propose that the following be added "and the joint educational growth of all education subjects." That's what she feels like. And when it comes to this partnership, it's necessary. We have to cooperate because education enters every house. We have at universities, in institutes, in agencies, at the level of local self-government, the state administration on the ground, and we have people who do education, who need to know in that communication every moment that happens in order to be effective and this common educational growth means that everyone contributes to our ability to be better. It's not easy. This is not what we in Croatia learned to co-operate. And that's why, if you remember when we have a problem with education, we always say that a professional consensus is needed. I'll say the following on behalf of the HDZ Club. We should have a political consensus. Why? Because it's thousands and thousands of people specifically here it's about nearly 700 thousand students if we join a mandatory preschool, it's about 60 thousand teachers, teachers, according to how to exclude anyone. That's supposed to raise awareness, there shouldn't be a struggle. It also seems to me that the law needs to be fully harmonised, not specifically interpreted, sufficiently referred to as the state pedagogical standard where it regulates things. So we can simplify because the other day in this House we have brought a state pedagogical standard, which is an additional indicator that the political elite leading Croatia hold that engine in education, that power that Croatia can push forward. I would also like to commend these articles, Article 10, 11, 15, which discuss the network of schools, school institutions and the enrollment of students. It is very important and it is a very important dimension because with this boom of housing in Croatia especially here in Zagreb and some other cities, there must be clear proportions when, where and how to establish school and law gives these conditions and I commend it, it is useful and necessary. I am also particularly looking forward to this, and in the introduction I pointed out about the fact that the national curricula, curricula and the programme and forms of work is a special whole and very well-set Croatia has chosen to have a school, national school curricula, it is regional, it is not necessary for Croatia because Croatia is a small country and can solve it in this context. I would suggest here for article 27 where the curriculum and the program is spoken. Only one word that the proposer can integrate, and that is the word achievement. I'll say why, even though it's about educational outcomes and that's all right, and I'll say why achievements. We need to come up with one simplified form that the achievement of mathematics in the 5th grade or history in 7 or I don't know, must be clearly set in the curriculum and the program clearly in the textbook, clearly in the independent external evaluation, so we need to know what these achievements are. Some countries even have printed brochures so that they can give their parents what it is, but let us choose our way. Since we're at the beginning of this deep communication, then we can create these frames, we can do it according to our model. Here's what I'm proposing. And in Article 28, which speaks of school curricula and the annual plan and program of work of school institutions, I hold that it would be good to consider whether there is room here for certain modules. Is it possible that certain communities, wholes can have their module. In Istria, one of the possible modules is imposed, such as the learning of the verb and what it means, but Croatia, since I was in Croatian schools and saw, already have school curriculas, have its specialities because just through the school curricula mirrored the specificity of some space that is surely rich because Europe values diversity, Croatia appreciates its diversity and can be done. And if you all take a little critical view of Article 28, then you would ask the Proposer if he can see in paragraph 7. what all should contain the annual plan and programme of work of the school institution is determined place, time, way, executioner of jobs, etc. If it's possible to reduce this administration a little bit. I'm not saying this isn't necessary, but here it seems to me that given the practice at school that, let's say, some points might be reduced. Let's say the first point says that the data on working conditions describes all your data, I don't know if it's necessary until the end. There is this information about job performers, annual work calendar, daily and weekly work organisation data, weekly and annual number of hours per class and forms of work education, work plans of directors, teachers or teachers and professional associates. There's a lot more, but please, we've already introduced team planning to school. Therefore, both director and teacher and professional associate they understand what they want to do and we have introduced a practice of integrated integration of competence based on European experience. So the school already has that experience. Maybe it's possible to sum this up, I'm not going to say it's simple, maybe it's possible. Anyway, it's good that this is how it's defined. I'm not going to talk about organization of school work because it's very well done and I still have to mention the introduction of one word, one... home line. Please, it's supposed to have a school. That was, but the house order is as important as the ban on promotion and sale to schools of certain materials. We know that everyone at school was pushing us, and as a secretary of state, I know the ex, how much trouble some of them had to say no, how violent they were because school was a good bait to sell. School has to be one pleasant whole and some things can't be promoted there. It says here the promotion of political parties, it's the same thing I don't think is necessary in school to introduce politics. And that's good. I see here that time escapes, I commend the evaluation and self-evaluation of school institutions, which is a very important dimension that has entered the law. And one more thing. What I'm trying to say here is that article 112, which fell right into my eyes, is that I'm out of work. According to a school institution worker, the work contract ceases in accordance with the general rules on work. I think that's good because we've had it in the lex specialis so far that when we're 65 years old, the work relationship stops. That's how we kind of discriminated against people who work in education against others. But you know because of the 19 examples they abused I remember from that time we introduced that legal principle so that we solve it here. And finally, I want to say that the way you solve school management through the school board now through nine members and in another way modified could be very good, you could give better results, you could get involved because for the first time now you're also volunteering for the state administration on the ground, and so you put them in charge of school management. And I think the role and position of the principal is improving with this. I am very pleased that two terms of office are kept to the principal because that way we will get better quality people, more responsible people who will be able to devote themselves to their work, and that seems to me to be good here. And this institute that by 1.1.2012, those who have a higher level of expertise must make sure that they change that if they want to continue to run schools. It's an institute that's been set up as a benchmark for the principal. It also seems to me that keeping and stilling hours is beneficial. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of this proposal and all these proposals and remarks, I believe that the Proposer will consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10506	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10507	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The SDP club will not support the adoption of this law nor in its first reading, because the government again sends us a law that, by its nature, unites the current Law on Fundamental and Secondary Education but at the same time offers no further steps than a new concept of education. This also hides the main reason why our position on this bill is like this. A few arguments. We really expected the government to propose a roof law on education as it has been announced that should define the goals and principles of education and education at all levels, from pre-school education and education to higher education and lifelong learning, a roof law that should regulate all education support institutions and education infrastructures in one place, because we have from time to time a mode of setting up various agencies and that we have never actually drawn up the whole system in one law as well as general conditions for workers in education and education, issues of autonomy of schools and the like. Instead, we have received a law which, according to us, is a bad way of compiling the current Law on Primary and Secondary Education. We're asking a question that we're expecting a reasoned answer to. Why do these two laws come together in the first place? What does the system of primary and secondary education bind to justify connecting these two laws? If it's about compulsory schooling, we can say this is a mandatory schooling law. This is not because primary school is mandatory and secondary school is not in spite of all the announcements and the programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education. Is this about general education? No, because, in large part, high school education is not a general school education, and it is professional, and it is not a good part of this law. Thirdly, the entire system of education, due to the improvisation of the ministry and the need for PR actions, acts confusingly. Systemic solutions are simply missing. We brought the pedagogical standards here in the Croatian Parliament two weeks ago, so before this law, even though they should follow their nature from the law. The programme of measures to introduce compulsory high school education that we brought in less than a year ago is now being ignored in some way and becomes quite obvious that it was just another pre-election promotional activity. And before I go into any particulars, I would like to warn the promoters of the fact that the law is abounding with illogicalities, incomprehension, contradictions, bad definitions. A few examples. We do not know why school institutions are constantly talked about when it can be said simply to schools and then to define the concepts it is a chapter that is missing in the law to define what is considered to be a school, so it can also be added to dormitories. Article 69 speaks one thing and Article 142 is the exact opposite of one of these things, and this law should therefore be thoroughly worded by another. The introduction should also say that the law does not bring any conceptal and necessary newspapers. He just... an existing system of education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The school system continues to be very rigid, so eight plus four and three instead of modular. I am glad that on behalf of the HDZ, my colleague Šetic also mentioned the need to modernise all this together in some way. Mandatory and free of charge remains only primary education and no one in this context mentions secondary education anymore. The first chapter of this proposal redefines the objectives and principles of education. ... in the first article, in many places a syntagma of education has been omitted, and I think it is necessary to keep it because some bad definitions are really being created because of that reduction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the first objective of education is to provide a systematic way of teaching, etc. In our view, it would be logical for the primary function and focus of the school to be first learning and then teaching because the experiment must be on students because of them schools and exist. In Article 4(2), point 1 is said to need to be educated on values. The values are raised, educated in knowledge, and somewhat surprised that such mistakes occur in this extremely pedagogogistic law. In addition, this entire 4th article should be thoroughly reorganised and we believe that it would not be a bad idea to completely reject the definitions of the old laws because they, according to our estimates, were significantly better and more comprehensively defined the objectives of education. In Articles 5(1) and (2), they are in full collegiation and should be corrected. This law for the first time introduces the concept of curricula and tries to define national and school curricula. We welcome from the SDP the fact that in programming it is finally moving from the outcome of education but we do not understand why it remains at the concept of the curriculum and the programmes when, according to the theory and practice of the countries that have moved on to curriculative programming, teaching content is defined as recommended within the curricula because their purpose is to achieve previously defined outcomes and stop being alone for the purpose of education. We therefore do not understand why there is no courage to leave the old concept of the programme, but we are almost commonly offered in the law a specific Croatian creation that is a mixture of two equally opposed concepts. And an unfortunate question. What happens to the so-called HNOS is real and in practice as well as formally in law. Because the HNOS in the law as well as the pedagogical standards simply doesn't exist. In public, however, it has been said for months that it is the most important project to revolutionise our education. Either what's been said about HNOS in the last two years isn't true, or we're back on the operation of the otherwise rather common PR action of the minister. Speaking of what's up with the free high school textbooks that were promised. The Law on textbooks says that the state only obtains textbooks for mandatory and that means school. What about free high school textbooks? There is no dictionary in the law, and it is obvious that it was just another pre-election promise. The law does not encourage enough school and doactic pluralism and our school is placed again in the 19th century instead of the 21st century, all two lines are dedicated to the autonomy of teachers, alternative pedagogue concepts of decentralisation of curricula, or content there is absolutely nothing. The law in Article 49 states that school work is done on one shift if it is permitted by spatial, human, other conditions. As it seems to me that the need for one-way work is obvious and that it has consensual support, we consider a better solution that would define one-way work as a standard, as it is done with pedagogical standards, and then, in paragraph 2 of the same article, identify exceptions as well as the obligation to achieve work in one-off accordance with certain deadlines. So the government's declaration and promises would be weighty because without concrete legal solutions, it can be concluded that everything we hear from the ministry remains at the level of demagogy, floscule and empty promises. On the trail of conceptual wanderings and article 54 of the law, which says the minister prescribes the number of students in the classroom. The number of students is set by standard. We voted that two weeks ago, and otherwise it seems to us that, under the terms of this law, the minister brings too many sublegal acts. They are placed wherever they should and where they should not be, and should be thoroughly examined by the second reading. This morning we discussed this law, this health and medical code where they were able to count. In our law, it is almost impossible to count how many of these sublegal acts are to be passed by the minister. A few sentences about the student transport. It seems to us that in Article 69(4) and paragraph 142, they are in collegiate. After one interurban transport, the student is paid by the founder and by another country from the budget. I now remind myself again of this Assembly's adopted programme of measures by which the funds for free textbooks that no one now mentions, free transport for which it is not clear under the provisions of this proposal who pays it, and the accommodation of students in dormitory who, under the bill of law, should be paid by local self-government under that programme less than a year ago, have to be provided by the state. And not only that, but I keep hearing from the minister that he just provided funds for high school students, their free textbooks, transportation and dormitories. This is definitely now, according to the provisions of this bill, especially if it remains until the second reading only shows up as another promise, because if it weren't, it would just be nice and it would have been written in the bill. I'm not going to talk about State Prom here, we talked about it when they were standards, but I think it was an absolutely best lesson for the Minister himself, when he wasn't listening to what we discussed as advocates and advocates on the subject in 2004. I found these phonograms in preparation for this discussion and unfortunately, many of us who discussed it at the time proved to be quite good prophets, unfortunately. When we talk about school workers' provisions, the article of the 100th Law should also add educational work, as teachers, teachers, and other school employees do not just do education, but also raises, and social workers need to be added or returned to professional associates. We hear about many problems in families, hearing about how families can't or can't arrive because of these or those in my opinion completely unwarranted reasons to deal with children, but social workers too, the more we introduce social educators, the more we have to return as professional associates. Article 103 has one interesting formulation. He says the minister prescribes criteria for determining the number of executioners of administrative technical tasks in accordance, as a rule, in accordance with pedagogical standards. The word, as a rule with pedagogical standards, should be thrown out, they are repeated in several places in the law itself, because in standards these standards are defined and the minister cannot prescribe standards other than those set by the Parliament by the pedagogical standards. It's a good thing you've changed the rules for starting a working relationship at school. By 2005 the school board decided to establish a working relationship, then the HDZ majority decided here, despite opposition from the profession and from some individuals, that this authority should be transferred to the school director, leading to a number of problems on the ground. Me and us in the SDP are glad that you have returned to more reasonable solutions, although it would be better if you hadn't even experimented with professional advancement and licensing of teachers and teachers. The bill introduces a relatively new training term in this context. We don't understand what was meant by those terms because at the same time you wrote in the law that the condition for establishing a working relationship at school had completed at least the degree level of a certain qualified study. If training is needed, then it means that people who work in schools are incompetent, so we think it would be better to stick to the terms of professional training because it's simply about that. Speaking of professional training and licensing, we expected from the SDP that the law would be more innovative in this segment. He's partly prescribing old provisions, but conceptually he doesn't change even though he would have to. Permanent professional training of teachers and teachers is one of the fundamental assumptions of the development of Croatian education and we expected to step forward in the sense that in one of the agencies, so either the one for lifelong learning or the one for education and education, a system of accreditation and evaluation of the program of permanent improvement as well as the financing of these programmes will be established. In practice, so far, it has been all about how people went to paper training, that they were organized all sorts of things, and they were especially popular those organised by school textbooks, which is a particular problem and actually no one had any insight into the quality of the training program. We think it is a final moment to establish this programme on a more modern basis, that it is necessary for programmes to be accredited and valued, and to commit teachers and teachers to collect a certain number of ECTS points in professional training in three years or not. This would also in some ways be an anti-citation of European lifelong learning programmes and, in some ways, for those who practice education in the best way, I am actually a system of lifelong learning. About funding professional training unfortunately in our schools was largely dependent on the will of individual directors to send someone out of the classroom for training, and often teachers and teachers from their pockets paid for programs and this practice really has to change. We in the SDP think it is good to introduce a work license at school, but we think that the law, not the minister's rule, must define at least the outlines of the procedure, the way and the renewal of the licence. That goes for the principal's licenses, because they're not written in the law for anything but to exist. This bill redefines both the composition of the school board and not our best way. The school boards continue to appoint politics, as well as since the 2005 amendments, and the promoter persistently insists on these solutions, although practice in the last 3 years has shown that such a solution is bad, as many schools were hostages of local political sheriffs who refused to appoint members who did not respond to them for political likeness. I ask again what if the founder refuses to appoint members of the school board who have been proposed by the parent council, i.e. the teaching or teaching council? The law on that question, like that old man, doesn't give an answer. The new structure of the school board is and the number appointed by the founder is increasing and we will have a situation for the first time that most in the school board have policies. Teachers and teachers have been through a lot, they have a third, even though they have the most knowledge of the state of education. We regret that no step has been made here and has allowed, for example, members of the school boards to be offered a craft chamber or other institutions from the economy in secondary schools. We've talked about all this before. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SDP sees the system of education and education as the basis for the development of society and individuals and we are therefore extremely interested in all proposals coming from the Government relating to education. But here, from time to time, we discuss only the partial solutions of this segment or that segment, and in fact, we haven’t considered the whole system systematically and strategically. As a result, we come from the Ministry often unedited and contradictory suggestions, and we often wander from solution to solution, and constantly in school we perform some experiments that remind us of the visions of students who are simply not good for the system and children, and with such practice we simply have to stop. The SDP's final club will not support this bill because it is depreciated. He doesn't offer newspapers. And therefore, we do not feel that there is a need for the adoption of a new common law. The Proposer has a chance to correct the law by the second reading but if he does not experience important innovation he will not receive our support in another reading. In any case, in this form, the law is not acceptable, but we also find it difficult to fix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10508	Thank you. We have a correction of incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10509	... Mr. President, of a whole series of incorrect allegations, I will only be the one at the beginning who was told by respected colleague Lugaric that this is a bad build-up of current laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think colleague Lugarić this is a new law and it is necessary to be unique for one single reason and that is because from now on, according to this law and basic and secondary school will become mandatory, so it is normal to be a single law. That's one thing. Second. I'd say you don't really understand the problem because you've never worked at school. I worked in high school for 26 years. And you don't understand the problem. And you're only criticizing to criticise, etc., etc. I don't want to pick it up. ... That it's not a build-up, it's a new law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I've corrected you very nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10510	No, you don't need to qualify who knows or doesn't know but to correct an incorrect assumption. We have another incorrect quote. Mr. Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10511	Mr. President, a colleague has cited a lot of incorrect allegations. I won't list them all but some. I mean in that explanation to say that our 19th-century schooling really doesn't make sense. There are those laws that have been passed before. It's completely wrong to say that. This law has tried and united and well to go that way. So school didn't begin now, nor will you determine it. School has lasted since the 19th century, but in one concept. Of course this law builds on it, and it's good that both that licensing and everything that's been proposed. If he needs something in his first reading, then until the second reading, we'll fix it. We're looking through the practice of what's happened so far. That's why it's a licensing issue. Like this. The licensing still has as far as I can see in the law, the first step is this expert exam. Well, that's what a series of others are being upgraded to again. You're misquoting it. Well, of course people have to go to professional training, that the institution and the Ministry, that they have to be related to it. There's more to it because the whole concept is to make it lessen and it sucks. I think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10512	Thank you. Correction by Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10513	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a distinguished colleague, Lugaric, in her presentation, said a few inaccuracies, but something that bothered me to call and a statement by my colleague, Lugaric, that this is improvising, and I tried to record exactly the words, the Ministry for the promotion of the minister, and that therefore this law seems confusing. That it's one of the pre-election promotional activities. Namely, counterpart Lugaric, a whole series of changes have been in school so far by this ministry. So far, the law has been amended several times. In the introduction of this law you have a whole series of amendments, additions and changes. We all agreed that we needed a law that would solve many problems. This law has tried and tried to resolve precisely these fundamental problems of primary and secondary education. Perhaps the next step will be the Professional School Act that we are bound to bring. The next step will probably be one single law But let us give time to this ministry [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which has made steps at a pace of some kind of implementing regulations and that we are already in the education of healthy legs. [[Thank you, there's nothing left.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10514	There's one replica left. Thank you. What was only in the beginning was a correction, there was a replica. Mr. Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10515	Well, I'd like to correct the esteemed president's guilty alleged colleague, Lugaric, who says local sheriffs name school boards. I don't know if my colleague Lugaric knows that local self-government doesn't appoint school boards but is appointed by the founder. The founder's a county. So I think that's wrong because I'm being told by the local sheriff. When they gave us county even a proposal to appoint then they appointed county sheriffs their extended arms, I don't know political darkness not to say tokares, locksmiths, drears and those on school boards, not those on the inside who should be involved in the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10516	Correction by Mrs. Bozica Solic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10517	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Gulić actually beat me to it, but it's not exactly my colleague Lugaric, I have to tell you that. You said the local sheriffs would set up, pick the principals. That's not true. You obviously didn't read the law well because, right in the law, it says that the principals will be appointed and elected by school boards, and it says exactly which lines will be the people who make up the school board. But I have to tell you in the end when you're talking about local sheriffs then I'd tell you that there are the most local sheriffs in the city of Zagreb and the headmaster. And you have to ask yourself, and look at yourself on the portal, on the Internet. See what elementary schools are in the 4th Bezovica And these are the schools run by the local sheriff, the principal. [[Thank you. Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10518	Thank you. We have one, one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Mrs. Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10519	Your Honor, Mr. President. Article 209(2) of our Rules of Procedure has been violated, given that Col. Solic was not correcting my allegations because she said that I had told the directors to choose. I'll read you exactly what I said because I read the speech. So, "The school boards continue to appoint politics and the promoter insists on these solutions although" not principals, "although the practice in the last 3 years has shown that such a solution is bad because many schools were hostages of local political sheriffs who refused to appoint members who did not respond to them for political likeness." I did not say it was absolutely but in many examples. And you know it just as well. And I ask you not to abuse the institute for the correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10520	Thank you, ma'am. Don't warn yourself about the abuse of the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure because last time you caused a conflict here that you three times counter-businessly called for the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. And now you're also making a further mistake. The lady corrected your incorrect claim. And don't take my part. ... For the last time, you've raised incorrectly three times. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It was about the program, not the law. You insisted and created that situation we know about. Excuse me. ... On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Boris Klemenic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10521	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs. The implementation of the Law on primary education and the Law on secondary education despite numerous amendments and additions has shown certain irregularities that prevent the effective functioning of the education system. Furthermore, redefining existing legislation is also necessary in view of the development of the activity envisaged by the development plan for the education and education system in the years 2005 to 2010, and the need to adopt new solutions in the approximation of the systems of education and education to the European Union member systems, as well as the harmonisation of parts of that single system, and the adoption of a national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education. Furthermore, the goals of education and education need to be brought into line with the requirements of contemporary education and education that require the system of teaching, training of students for life and working in a changing social, cultural context, and the market economy. In order to comply with European Union legislation, it is also necessary to regulate the education of students, children of citizens of the Member States of the European Union, and children of asylum seekers and other persons in accordance with the Asylum Act, and this proposal also regulates them. The bill also regulates the coordination of the activities of the basic and secondary education systems as part of the single system and sets out the objectives and principles of education in accordance with the needs of Croatian society and economy. The activities of primary and secondary education and the definition of these activities as public services are also identified, as well as the planning of a network of school institutions and programmes to ensure the availability and rationality of the educational process. This law also addresses the issue of introducing state graduates as an educational standard and completing secondary education, as well as ensuring vertical passivity. The rights and obligations of pupils, parents and local communities are also defined, as well as the association of school institutions as well as the obligations of school and competences to increase the safety of the school institution and protect the health of pupils, and the possibility of including other necessary profiles to meet the specific needs of students is opened. In accordance with the National Programme for the Introduction of Mandatory Secondary Education for High School Students, free interurban transport is provided, and financing of accommodation and nutrition costs is ensured in dormitories. The proposal for the same law also regulates the evaluation system for the purpose of monitoring the quality of the education system, the way in which teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors are trained and trained, the specificity of the working relationship of staff in school institutions, as well as the award of direct holders of educational activities to achieve excellent results in the work. We consider it particularly important that the bill defines the exercise of primary and secondary education activities as part of a single system of education and education, as well as the pursuit of these activities. In this regard, we are important in keeping what is arranged and how teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors are trained and trained, as well as the introduction of licences. The new system of promotion of teachers and professional associates through five calls will open up the possibility that the teacher will have a significantly higher salary than the beginners prior to his retirement. On the other hand, licensing will not endanger job security but will be exclusively related to professional training that becomes a right and obligation, and will be financed from the state budget. Namely, as regards operators of activity and educational process, their permanent improvement, which is necessary at this time of rapid change and requires extremely important. The system of improvement and progress that this bill provides will certainly be an additional motivation that will also reflect positively on the quality of teaching, which is important not only for students but also for the future of Croatian society. Because of the accelerated rhythm of life, parents often do not have enough time for children so that the school begins to take over and supplement the gap that unfortunately arises from such circumstances in raising children. However, in Article 1(2), where the activity of school institutions is determined, education is left out as a term, i.e. under the term of education. The fact is, of course, that's the solution, but we need to be aware of its consequences. Clearly, the school is not able to take over everything because it does begin in a family that is supposed to be the first school of human relations. Because knowledge is important. It enables success and further development of the child's potential. But for his happiness, growing up in a mature, safe, and contented person still needs the presence and care of parents. For how to treat others and to treat ourselves first and foremost, we learn in the family. Furthermore, school directors, since they will be in office, will be able to return to the jobs they had done before taking office and will therefore increase their working security. We're estimating this very well, given that even from the example, so from the city that I come from, we've had a lot of problems just about the contests. Because let's be realistic for fear, and not having a chance to get back to a certain workplace. I'm not going to say we've got more unquality directors. However, it would be better if we could choose between a number of directors, or potential candidates for directors, and still be able to return to their jobs if they serve one or two terms of principalship. However, we would also like to draw attention to Article 4(2) and to one that states that basic education is mandatory and free of charge. This free interpretation yes. However, nothing in life is free of charge, so please, if it is in any way possible to make it free for a student or a person who attends school because it is definitely not free for the state. It still costs, so for interpretation we think it would be good to make it free for the person who attends school. It is also necessary to draw attention from a specific experience to the provisions of Article 120 relating to the appointment of members of the school board appointed by the founder on their own, according to which a member must have completed at least a pre-graduate university study or a professional study in which at least 180 ECTS points are obtained. The question arises whether a sufficient number of people who satisfy that provision can be found, respecting the desire for a better structure of the school boards. Namely, our country is developed as it is developed and we don't all have the opportunity to find hundreds of 120 or 130 people who, by these criteria, will be willing to do their job on the school board without moving them from one to another, or the school board. Finally, Article 49(3) speaks of how the school is obliged throughout the year to ensure the conditions for its pedagogical and public function, and according to the school's abilities and interests of local self-government and regional self-government students, will develop an activity plan and provide conditions for their implementation at the time of student holidays. It is our opinion that perhaps we should be more specific to the units of local and regional self-government and, even stronger and more directly, to establish possible obligations since we are all aware that during the summer and winter periods, during school fairies, practically children in certain environments do not know what to do with their free time. So here's what I'm going to say is an example of my city, a place of Jastrebarski where I've been mayor for six years. Children go to summer and winter playgrounds that directly finance the town of Jastrebarsko, except for certain activities that are really expensive, and each time we propose six, seven or eight activities, where we practically cover all the fairies. Here, with probably more supplements to be heard today in these discussions and until the second reading, I believe that at least some of this will be appreciated, and on behalf of the HSS Club, I can say that we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10522	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minority Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10523	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minorities Club will support the Law on primary and secondary education in first reading with the need to take care of the goals of education and education that need to be brought into line with new basic and secondary education requirements, with a clear requirement for training students for life and work on the one hand in the market economy with new, modern information communication technologies or for inclusion in new scientific knowledge and achievements within higher education. A network of schools that is of national importance is necessary to comply with the status and needs of personnel from local community level to state level including economic operators, and normally all in line with demographic indicators. We support all of those newspapers that contribute to the quality above all the work of teachers themselves, which means newspapers in the teacher's progress system through 5 titles instead of the current 2 because we think that this creates the possibility that the teacher's pre-retirement teacher has a significantly higher salary and we know that the problem of staff is practically in education, above all there have always been low wages and that we have had a major drain of these staffs. Normally, the difference between teachers' salaries and teachers' pre-retirement rates today is only 40%, I think the secretary said that the addition to 2 calls is 8 and 12%, which is really the lowest ratio in Europe if we take that, however, a year and a half ago, that the strike has made the pay lag behind the average in the economy, that they are now only 10% of the difference, I think that the system of progress will contribute to the fact that the teacher, i.e. the teacher, or the teacher, is better paid, and thus we will also get through the system of progress and quality when and normally will create quality competence among teachers, which so far was not the same case because, as I said, they all had almost the same salary and the same position, regardless of the quality of work performance, and certainly it is important to define the conditions for progress and to define the conditions and the way of valorization. Equally, I think it's good that licensing is being introduced, which will also contribute to the quality of teaching staff and I think it's good that it's already at the Union's intensification that it's only going to be professional training, that it's not going to endanger jobs, or that on the other hand, it's going to become a right and obligation with the funding that will come from the state budget, and not now as one of my predecessors said it depended on the well-willing of the director himself, that is, whether the director had the funds or had no means for someone to go to perfection. I think that the law should better define who will conduct the licensing because I don't think that it's fully defined yet and perhaps one of the proposals that was on the board that should be done by perhaps the adult education agency, perhaps you should consider and see how it works out. I will still stay here for a little while on the article 49, and I too follow the schooling of a country that gives great importance to the very extended stay for the students, that is, the full - time stay of the children at school. We define this article now in 49, but so little is shy that according to school and student interests local and regional communities should develop a plan of activities and ensure the conditions for their realization. Just starting with the fact that violence in schools is on the rise, that alcohol consumption and drugs are on the rise and that is, above all, I will say the result of the overstaying of children on the street outside adult control. On the other hand, each year, if we were to separate large funds from the state budget to prevent these vices, it would be more effective to define both the extended stay and the whole-day stay with a way of funding from the state budget. And yesterday, for example, we talked here about anti-discrimination law and whether or not there will be discrimination when the children of the financially wealthy local self-government units are entitled to an extended stay, they will be entitled to a full-time stay, and the other children will continue to raise the street until their parents get back from work, which we now know that it is no longer 15 or 16 hours, but very often 19 hours or later, and I think that this particular segment should be better defined in this article and that the state budget should take care of one part of the extended stay, as other countries do, where the budget is funded by an employee who, therefore, means a competent person for an extended stay. Is it a teacher, teacher or now not to go into details, and where local self-government units only finance one part of the cost, which is then possible in agreement and not depend exclusively on the wealth or poverty of the municipality itself, i.e. to return to the local self-government unit. Article 51 regulates the daily duration of teaching, which certainly cannot be longer than 6 hours, i.e. a week must not be more than 32 hours, and here is given the possibility that a student who is involved in the language of the national minority may be burdened with a larger daily satin, means more than 6 hours, or more than 32 hours a week, and that means work, not 5 days and a week, but 6 days, and then it brings work on Saturdays. And the problem is that this word can be pretended to always, especially in schools that only cultivate minority language, working on Saturdays becomes a practice, as I have already repeatedly stressed, becoming a problem for both children and parents, but also for school because it is the additional cost of working on Saturdays. I really don't see how to solve this at this time, but I think it has to solve the profession because it has to say which items to reduce in favour of mother tongue, or in what way to solve this problem, I know that the secretary has answered that this is an organisational issue of school, without further ado, but there would certainly have to be an opportunity to be in favour of one of the subjects, that children if they want to learn minority language, or culture and all that is prescribed if they learn model C and 5 hours of that model, then it would be seen that something has to be reduced because children can't be punished, they can work a little more hours, but they can't work and days more, which then put them also in an unequal position. It is good to keep a job for two terms as director, but let's not forget that it is ten years. Surely we will get better quality directors, everyone will agree, because people will definitely come forward, or quality experts in this profile. However, I am now opening another question that we haven't thought about, that we here are practically reopening for a certain time those who will be working at the principal's place, or someone will be working for 10 years at a certain working time, and I can tell you that for young people who are coming, they start doing this for a certain time creating very big family problems from the fact that at that point he needs to solve the housing issue, etc. Because it's for a certain time because it replaces someone. Indeed, for 10 years, he has been unable to plan some of his and his investments, or the course of his life. Since this means 10 years and how to solve those who go in exchange, I think it should be given a lot of thought, because I had examples of where they are on the ground of two or three mandates are indeed directors and without having existed, or before that legal provision, so it was abolished where it happened that no one really respected these three years later that after three years it had to go to work indefinitely. It's just that people are constantly extended and extended contracts, and it shouldn't be on the side of the government, or one ministry, either, so I don't know how to reconcile these two facts. It is good that the director must be confirmed by the minister as well as by the Minister's right to discharge of the director, as well as by the fact that the resolved director is re-elected. Although at a given moment it seems that we are going towards a recentralisation when it comes to confirmation by the minister normally I don't think that we are still mature enough and that she had too much influence and had similarity and too many local environment policies and often at the cost of quality was simply ignored, lobbyed and we had to say unquality directors. I think this confirmation of ministers will somehow alleviate the problem. We define first time the rights and obligations of students and equally the rights and obligations of parents who must be involved in the process of education of their child and I think that's good. Perhaps we should have even been a little more predictable, or we will be serving on one side when it comes to students, attitudes toward institutions, schools, etc. but also more involving parents because I have seen that in many countries parents are again involved even in the educational process in some classes, hours are invited to school to actually convince their child on the one hand but to have a sense of what their child is doing and how it is educated in the school system. Everyone here mentioned the composition of the school board that normally increases to 9. It's not a question of whether it's increasing, etc. However, it is unacceptable for us to appoint 8 or eventually resolve the founder. That's one problem, 'cause there's little use here for that local sheriff's term. I must say that they have had and have a great influence and that they will have an even greater impact when they are directly elected in 2009 so perhaps we should see how these 9 board members reconcile it to be sufficiently represented, but also politics. I warn a little about this detail where it is said that of those three independently proposed to have the mother at least 180 ECS points, i.e. to be a pre-graduate study, etc. professional study. I'm afraid that on the smaller units of local self-government in smaller municipalities, we're going to encounter a very big problem because we don't have a lot of educated people on the one hand, on the other hand, we're going to be filled with people from other municipalities, cities who don't know enough about such a environment and we're going to create a new problem again. I'm opening another problem here right now. When it comes to minority schools, more than 50% of the school board members must be members of national minorities as much as possible, and this is about the Minority Language Education Act. Therefore, it will be even harder to get the quality of this committee, and to satisfy exactly all these conditions that are mentioned here about education, although it is certain that such a school board should have sufficient quality because it has really great competences to be given to it by this law. So maybe once again, the promoter will think about how better to solve it, that the units of local self-government are less with fewer people who have human rights problems, and today we talked about it in the part where we talked about municipalities, or when we talked about employment in local self-government units. And normally, at the end of the day, it's good that decentralisation has been delayed, because I think the decentralisation resulting from collective agreements signed by the government because I'm still saying our local communities aren't even professionally, but not financially qualified to be able to monitor them, but also to exercise some of those rights, and again here we would have one step between opportunities and practically pedagogical standards that should give equal conditions and opportunities to children from the municipality in the municipality. This would therefore depend again on the financial power, i.e. the inability of local self-government units, and it is therefore good that this has been delayed for some time. After all, we will support this law in the first reading, with the fact that we expect, as is said here, that there are many and unquality and unprofessional statements and that the law still needs a lot of debate. But I have seen that it is predicted that between the two readings that a few round tables are still being held, where obviously taking into account our observations here, but taking into account probably a little more into account the profession that hasn't yet been included enough, or there wasn't enough time to engage, I hope that in the second reading we will get a better quality law and, as I said, we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10524	Thank you. At 18.02, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. The word was requested by Mr. Secretary of State, Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10525	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, ladies and MPs, allow me to thank you all for speaking on behalf of your clubs and saying that you will support this law in your first reading. I also want to thank the club that said it would not support the law in the first reading, but that it proposed certain solutions until the second reading and that they opened up the possibility of supporting it in the second reading. I hope so. I would very clearly like to say something here that has been questioned. Last year, we started with certain measures relating to the National Programme of Measures for the Introduction of Mandatory Secondary Education, but also with some basic school measures, so last year we first funded textbooks for all primary school students and first grade students. Here I want to make it clear that even then we changed the Law on textbooks where we found in the law that for compulsory education textbooks would be free and this is a legal obligation and that as it was last year, it remains for all primary school students this year. When it comes to secondary school students last year, we obtained first-class textbooks and this year, we will also get for second-class students, and that is the measure, one of the encouraging measures that has been written and that you adopted last year in June that will gradually introduce that the state will pay textbooks and pupils of secondary schools. Furthermore, one of the encouraging measures that we have now installed in the legal solution is the transportation of high school students. So, we're paying for the interstate transport. We started in 2007, 2008 for first grade, and this year we continue with other classes, and that is what the article 42 says. This is the obligation of the state budget. The third measure concerns accommodation and nutrition in the dormitories. That was the part that was decentralised. Therefore, from decentralised funds, it was paid by the founders and by half the amount necessary, so 630 kuna for each student of the required thousand 260 kuna. The National Programme said that starting last year, we will raise that amount to a thousand, 260 kuna and parents will no longer pay anything. Of course, that's what we stayed behind. This year we introduce it for second-class students. This difference of 630 kuna will be settled through decentralised funds, it will be paid and it is written in article 143 of this bill. Therefore, accuracy is due to all these measures that we started with last year, of course not only this year, but also the following years, and we are expanding these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10526	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10527	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to ask myself and all of you, have we discussed last week and it seems to me that we have passed the Ratification Act and the rest of the European Charter on Local Self-Government? We did. I found nowhere in the reasoning of the law a sentence that would say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had made mandatory consultations with the Association of Cities and Alliances or the Community of Countys prior to the submission of this bill, since this law largely regulates the powers, tasks and financial obligations of local and regional self-government. I think it would be extremely useful, Mr. Secretary of State, for you to do this consultation or consulting with local and regional self-government, as is this law in the first reading, which allows us to now try to contribute to the better text of the law in this debate. Second, Article 4, paragraph 2.1 states that basic education is mandatory and free of charge. It is mandatory but it is really not free and we need no one in this hall and in Croatia to interpret it that way. And it seems to me that instead of a word, it would be better to write free of charge without the tuition in primary school because that's true and all the rest is the cost of most parents. Then we're clean by definition and content and concept. Article 10(1) lays down the way a network of school institutions is adopted and provides that the proposal for a network of school institutions in its field shall be determined by the representative body of the unit of local or regional self-government. If we take into consideration the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, then you will see that such a provision cannot remain and that you need to clarify it because competence in primary and secondary education and that law is both with local and regional self-government. And here I suggest you say that the proposal for a network of primary schools suggests a local, middle regional one. Because this is a special law, as the local law says that special laws of detailed authority will be prescribed then it is right here to detail what the local and what regional ones suggest to avoid possible misunderstandings. And we're bound by this law to clear it up because that law obliges us to do so. Article 17 which speaks of enrolment of children in high school, which in paragraph 5 sets out the choice of candidates quite clearly proves that high school is not and will not be required under this law, that this law even prescribes elements and criteria that a child or a certain number of children can prevent from enroling in high school. That's a fact. However, what is important to me here in paragraph 7 where the decision to enrol in high school on a proposal from high school and with the consent of the founders is made by the minister, I think we should still give more authority to the founders and place them in the position of the promoters. So, the founders suggest not schools and for the following reasons. And the number of children, the number of departments, the number of children, and in secondary schools, especially the education programmes that that school will have so far are out of every inauguration of founders, the cities that have taken over primary schools, the 28 cities were, I don't know if it's now increased. ... 30? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Over 30 grand, right, 32. However, they believe me, and you know it well, so they really don't have any influence on what education programs will have in high school. And that these education programmes are not followed by the needs of the economy, but most often the directors set up these programmes depending on the availability of personnel, traditions and everything that a particular region or environment monitors. If we want to place the founders in a responsible position, planning education and on longer paths, then we must have the power to influence the number in the department in a particular school, number and type of profession, profession, calling or profession that they will educate. It is common to listen, and I can personally testify to that, where the directors were those who, past the decision of the county chiefship directly took to the Ministry a plan of enrolment and a programme for individual schools with the reason that political pressure was being put on the local level and therefore in some middle schools we have those training, training... professions, professions that no one needs on the market at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The slowness, the unpreparedness of adapting to needs, the resistances that come into the system are partly possible to change them if we make the founders responsible for this thing, and I think that this is the subject of Article 17 and this proposal, I think we could probably agree that way. Paragraph 2 of Article 17 speaks of the responsibility of parents for primary school education. The failure to comply with the obligation of parents is forecasted to be sanctioned with a fine of 500 to 5,000 kuna. Secretary of State, I know that you know as well as all your associates that in part of the population this punishment means nothing, that the biggest problem in primary education we have with Roma children, the Roma community, and that no penalty that is monetary in nature solves the problem with them. They don't pay with two, three, four days in prison we don't solve the problem, and I'm afraid you didn't make this supply with such an offer because please consider, try to find and ask the solutions from the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, something they had to find that part of the problem started to work out more successfully with us. Furthermore, you referred to Article 142, point 5 of the transport of high school students, the state budget. Okay, but then something Mr. Secretary of State really isn't right with Article 166. In this article, however, it states that for the purposes of points 1 and 2 of Article 143 of 2009 2010 for pupils of first, second and third grade secondary schools, money must be provided by local and regional self-government, and Article 143 of points 1 and 2, inter alia, point 1 refers to transport. Now, either here wrong high schools, so it should be written basics in Article 166, so either it's wrong or it's really planning to transfer high school girls to local self-government, which is contrary to Article 142. Article 166 and second indent, referred to in Article 143(1) and (2), refers to accommodation and nutrition in pupils' homes, and Article 143(1) and (2) speaks of accommodation and nutrition for pupils' homes on the burden of local and regional self-government. Therefore, whether primary and secondary schools have since 2009 gone to the burden of local and regional self-government and whether transportation for high school since 2009 is going to the burden of local or it is a mistake, you have time to compare, see what it is, up to the second reading and to fix that part. And the 143rd article, and I'm done with it. Material rights of employees, whether they work in primary or secondary schools, Mr. Secretary of State, which are the subject of collective agreements. It is against natural for them to be burdened by local or regional self-government. Why? Local and regional self-government is not a participant in the conclusion of a collective agreement and they cannot affect those rights, and it is a financial service obligation. Or you have to move this to a state budget or collective bargaining decentralisation and then for primary and secondary schools collective agreements are concluded by founders, which would be logical if it was already called founder and is the founder. This combination offered in this law will not bear the slightest criticism of the Committee of Experts of the International Labour Organization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10528	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Two corrections of incorrect allegations have been reported. The first is the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10529	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, counterpart Lesar said one inaccuracy is the introduction of large financial obligations to local self-government units. New obligations. Comrade Lesar, no new obligations are introduced to local self-government units at all. Article 143 accurately lists the obligations of units of local self-government, but you also have the last point of 4 where the Government of the Republic of Croatia says at the same time each year when it sets out the proposal for a state budget sets out the criteria and criteria for ensuring minimum financial... in order to meet the public needs set out in paragraph 1 of this Article. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] That's what they're called. popularly called decentralised functions that are provided and go really one large part in the largest number, unfortunately the largest number of units of local self-government from the state budget, from so-called "state budget". The Alignment Fund, because they don't have enough funds for the local self-government unit. Why did I say sorry? Because I would be really happy, and I believe that all of this can really be secured from taxes and contributions collected by units of local self-government and that this alignment fund does not have to exist in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10530	Thank you very much. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're continuing an individual debate. The esteemed representative of the Iron Flego has come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10531	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I've just come to protest, Mr. Chairman, that we haven't all received the same texts of the law. What some MPs and MPs have managed to read from the law we have not been able to find inside, and there is a very extensive literature from logic, from linguistics, from hermeneutics about the boundaries of interpretation and in the parliamentary and political debates of imagination is very welcome, but excessive imagination I think is damaging. Because of the strategic importance of education and education, I think he needs great attention, especially when new laws are passed, because the purpose of the new laws is steps, especially strategically and in fact legal planning of new activities and taking on new obligations. This law and I agree with some of my predecessors and predecessors has made one more or less mechanical combination without any particularly strategic leaps. And I ask myself, what is the purpose of this law? Especially since we have several strategic education documents that bind us and education from pre-school to post-doctoral is a kind of whole. We get a drop by drop and we can't see the whole thing, and those drops would look completely different from some whole frame or whole. Then we have a government programme, a coalition agreement, a ruling party programme, and the law has failed to take over and record some of the commitments that have just come to light in these documents. Then at least the way I saw it, it's illogical, it's partially incomprehensible, it's conflicting at the level of the law between different articles of the law and finally intra-member contradictions so that it's really going to take a lot of work, and maybe sometimes even interpretative efforts to regulate the law and achieve a certain level of consistency in order to be able to implement it at all. And as far as another principled remark is concerned, I find it highly unacceptable to return to the law those formulations that we have rejected at the level of the tide from the pedagogical standards and amendments to the Committee, the amendments to the Committee. Therefore, I ask that these parts of the Law be changed. I think the law is hard to fix, but I'll make a personal effort. I'll make written suggestions and see what the fate of those proposals will be. Here's a few specific remarks. Article 3 or Article 8 "Keeping records with registration records, school records. Keeping track of teaching and other forms of educational work." And so on and so forth. What are we keeping track of? Well, I guess first of all, it's our school's obligation to enroll students and then keep records of enrollment and printing. I guess it's basic school assignments after enrolling students to organize and teach at school and only then keep records of it. So that's where we put the administration ahead of this. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Encourage and promote their intellectual, physical, aesthetic, social, moral, spiritual development according to their abilities. So we have intellectual, moral, and spiritual. Intellectual, moral, and spiritual. Now I think the difference between intellectual and spiritual would also be very interesting in certain, in certain interpretational excursions. Article 4(3) Scientific knowledge and accomplishments are the last. And Article 4(4) is developing, so it seeks to develop awareness of the state and nationality of human rights and children's rights, and that at times when we are approaching the European Union we are not actually looking for the development of awareness of the belonging of a particular culture or of a particular civilization that has its own political and organisational forms. Article 4(2), point (b) My colleagues and colleagues on the other side. Mandatory basic education mandatory and free of charge. So please advise me in part of the text of the law that states that secondary education is mandatory. Just tell me where? I'll admit my mistake. No, we've been discussing this for a long time. The Constitution says basic education is mandatory. If you introduce a mandatory middle education law, you satisfy the constitutional form of compulsory basic education because you could go to secondary education, you need to absorb basics. The constitution prohibits you from passing laws against constitutional provisions. But it allows you to add additional provisions and therefore consists of "legal specialis" to add provisions to the basic, basic legal therefore to the themes of the legal system or legal system i.e. The Constitution. Therefore, I suggest you put the basic and secondary education under point 1 in Article 4(2), or how you will put for free unburdened, or for free or for so on, and then you will meet one part of the government's programmes and coalition agreements and the HDZ programmes. So the ruling party. Point 4 of the same, i.e. sub-point 4 of the same sub-point of the "pedagogical and educational standard". And as far as the pedagogical standard is concerned, of course, it's already about the term technicus. It's about the term pedagogy that all the time is... uses with educational and educational activity because it actually ate the educational and educational activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you look at what the legislator is thinking under pedagogy, then you will actually see that in the most well-intentioned interpretation of pedagogy it comes down to education, i.e. to educational measures. There is a whole chapter, chapter 7, called pedagogical measures. Pedagogical measures consist of rewarding. And then it consists of a warning, reproof, strict reproof, moving to another school and actually shutting down. These are pedagogical measures under this law. And therefore that activity we do at school cannot be reduced to pedagogical activity and therefore I ask you to speak instead of pedagogical activities in, I suggest that you actually be educational activities. Not only educational but educational activities. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The first sentence is incomprehensible to me. "The public needs of the primary and secondary education system are prescribed and guaranteed activities, jobs and activities of material and human resources in relation to achieving the objectives of the educational process." I don't know what the author wanted to say and the people I consulted also didn't know how to make sense. Then you have a contradiction between second sentence 1 and second paragraph 2. Article 6 then speaks of teaching other forms of educational work of the school institution in Croatian and Latin. How we're going to teach French, English, German in high school, high school. I listened to it in French. I listened French in French, I didn't listen in Croatian. And in order for that to be possible, it is necessary to obtain the minister's approval, forgive the ministry in this case. Article 9(1) of the establishment of school institutions shall be established and planned through a network of school institutions. Article 2 The network referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be a set of existing programmes and school institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10532	Your Honor, this light has been blinking for a long time, so it's time for a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10533	So only two more sentences if I can. It is therefore impossible, according to this formulation of the law, to develop school programmes and institutions because the network consists of existing programmes, etc. And finally, you have a whole series of recentralizations of the role of the minister who culminates in the fact that the minister, you have article 31 that the minister prescribes implementation and programmes for... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10534	Here's the minute, even the extra one. That's quite enough, I think. Thank you very much. The next debate is the third of twelve single debates reported, and that is the debate I call upon the distinguished representative, Marija Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10535	Dear Vice President, representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law shows that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and the minister has no vision of the development of the primary and secondary education system in Croatia, neither in the short term nor in the long term. It seems again that Europe is forcing us to pass new laws, and this is one of the fundamental elements of the development of Croatian society in the next ten years or so. This proposal does not show any particular development concept. The question is whether it means that this education system that we have in Croatia for many years for this Ministry and Minister of Best for Croatian Society, is one of the best in Europe and the world, and that it still needs to be continued. I ask this question because the minister recently dried the trees and stones to exactly one of the key components of the education system, namely our teachers and teachers, that they were incompetent and that their infamous and quickly organized state graduation had failed. It would be good that it was the highest body received from the minister and his expert team finally some vision of how the Croatian education system should look and how this education system will provide us with a place on the future map of Europe as a country with a capable educational and well-paid population. It seems to me, therefore, that this bill is merely an attempt to list what has happened in Croatian school over time, thanks to teachers, teachers and directors, and their involvement in modern, global, educational trends. But it's no wonder this ministry doesn't have a strategic plan to develop and modernise the education system that could be seen from the pedagogical standards that we've been having a heated debate here in the assembly. This shows a large number of amendments submitted to the mentioned standards, but unfortunately most of them are not accepted. That the ministry does not have a clear vision of school development and Article 4 which says primary education is mandatory and free of charge. Does this mean that the minister gave up the mandatory secondary school project with which he was walking in the pre-election time as an advertising pan in Ban Jelacic Square. Either it was just a pre-election game for naive citizens, or maybe we'll get some changes and additions to this same law on the bench soon. I would also warn of Article 12, which is unnecessarily vague and confusing when it says that the duration of schooling in high schools lasts at least four years. Does that mean the minister predicted that high school could last six years? Unless this is part of a minister's vision, I suggest that the word "minimum" be deleted from the article of this law. I would only briefly ask the applicant why he does not listen to the voice of those he works with or this minister only listens to the voice of the street. So, as far as I know, and it's safe for the minister, teachers and teachers have recently signed a petition against such a way of licensing teachers and teachers. This means that only those of all who are financed from the state budget will have to constantly pass some tests that will be prescribed by the Minister of course. I don't know what the obligation to continue training, attend seminars, issue certificates by the ministry he organizes, but he still has to check his teachers and teachers through exams. Does this also mean that doctors and nurses, ministry lawyers and local administration will have to take state exams every five years or are exempt from this discriminatory obligation. Instead of making it easier for people to work and encouraging them in their work, we make it difficult for them to set additional conditions and rules and things like that. Instead of controlling higher institutions, we control people who do their job consciously from day to day for low wages. I believe that the new laws, especially those that lead us to Europe, should move forward with times, changes in technology, trends, and should have a better structure, a plan for application in the future, and not that we should change each one so much with changes and additions. And in the end, I would support the non-acceptance of this bill because it is bad, unconstitutional and without vision, and I hope that perhaps these topics that we are discussing today in the Assembly will eventually become important to our Minister Primorac, and that he will also appear before us, because we have never seen him before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10536	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10537	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to correct an incorrect quote from a young colleague who I believe was that he wasn't sitting in the last session of this Parliament, but in preparation he could have read a whole series of documents. He said "the ministry has no vision of developing a system of education and education". A colleague, there is a document called the Development Plan for the Education and Education System, which was adopted in 2005-2010, which accurately mentions the measures, objectives and deadlines for these individual measures. So it's a basic document that builds a system of education. I respect that you are the new representative in this House's term and you have not been in the previous term, but it exists on all the websites, I will not list that I am not taking up time and others, there is already a national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education which is also a fundamental document, today the secretary of state has also said from which these certain legal provisions are derived in this proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10538	Thank you very much. Before the second correction, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure reported by the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10539	Dear Mr Vice President, Article 214th indent 5. So, colleague Roksandić, I'm going to talk about correcting the allegations, a colleague was called by a young colleague. We've heard that a few times. Yesterday we had anti-discrimination law that prohibits insulting and labeling people and the foundation of age. This has happened several times here in this House, especially when representatives of a younger age or younger MPs speak. How about we all talk to the younger ones about an older colleague or an old colleague or an old colleague. So please, here's my apology for this intervention, I know that my colleague didn't mean...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10540	Thank you. And another breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10541	.... /The speech room was subsequently included./...that this expression of my young colleague, I meant young by internship in the Croatian Assembly, so your colleagues only said in a sentence in the end, I guess I didn't mean bad. I really didn't mean it badly, and if we're going to be able to make amends like this, then we won't be able to address ourselves in the Croatian Parliament for a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10542	Thank you very much. And another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10543	The same item that my colleague Lugaric mentioned, 214th indent 5, has now been rejuvenation by internship, and as far as age is concerned, since Mario is somewhat older than me, you can call me free and you can still call me a young colleague, I will not be angry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10544	Thank you very much. I would, however, conclude that there was no demeaning in a statement that was neither intended nor intended, and the law on discrimination has not yet entered into force, right? Okay. Thank you very much. We will continue with another correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representative Mr. Habek said, I quote "the minister has no vision of development of education" and another incorrect allegation that Europe is forcing us to pass new laws. My colleague Ivanka corrected this allegation that she had no vision, and that this is an incorrect assumption that Europe is forcing us to pass new laws, the fact is that then the government could bring amendments and additions to existing laws, so it doesn't matter what the basic law of primary school from the '90s is. The year had 7 changes and additions, and the high school year 2002, 6 changes and additions, would be just another amendment and addition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10546	Thank you very much. Let's go with the next debate. It's a debate between distinguished representatives of Zeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10547	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the representatives of the promoter, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. One wise man says that man cannot leave a better inheritance to mankind than a well - educated family. Today, some MPs on the one hand spoke about the imagination and boundaries of interpretation, while others read and found in this law, or the draft law of the newspaper that this proposal contains in its provisions. I personally believe that today, in the opportunity and in the framework of the proposal of this educational law, we have made a step in the same way as the steps in the education and education system in the previous term of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports were free textbooks, free inter-urban transport, accommodation and nutrition in homes from decentralised funds and a series of other measures that I will no longer mention today, and the Law on Fundamental Education in the Republic of Croatia was adopted in 1990 and has been amended multiple times. The one about high school, I think, '92. years, too, have been changed multiple times. Under a number of amendments and additions to the implementation of the provisions, and these laws today have shown certain irregularities that prevent the effective functioning of the education system. And precisely on the trail of all the activities that the ministry has spent since the previous term of office creating a knowledge society, today is the proposal for a law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. The law states that education in primary school acquires basic general education competences, and in high school basic general education and of course depending on the type of schools, professional competences. This law will regulate the activity of primary and secondary education as a single system of education and education. And our solutions will certainly ensure that the Croatian system of secondary and primary education is brought closer to the relevant systems of the Member States of the European Union. In a strategic development document, and today we talked about strategies, a development plan for education and education systems for the period 2005 to 2010 in the approximation of the Croatian system of education and education to the relevant systems of the Member States of the European Union, the coordination of primary and secondary education activities as part of a single system of education and education, as well as the adoption of a national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education adopted last year, require the need to redefine existing legislation. That is, the goals of education and education need to be brought into line with the new requirements of contemporary primary and secondary education. In view of this obligation to bring Croatian legislation into line with those in the Member States of the European Union, before entering that association, it is also particularly important to produce newspapers to regulate the education of students, i.e. children of citizens of the European Union, as well as children of asylum seekers and other persons in accordance with the Asylum Act. Furthermore, children of citizens of the Member States of the European Union are entitled to primary and secondary education as well as Croatian citizens and are enrolled in school institutions in the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions as Croatian citizens. Of course, it is also prescribed to postpone the entry into force of the provisions of articles which bring the activity of primary and secondary education in line with the acquis of the EU until the date of entry into full membership of the Republic of Croatia. Another step away from this law is the planning of a network of school institutions and programmes to ensure the availability and rationality of the attainment of the educational process. However, today, in the context of the debate of this bill, I would like to talk about what I think may be one of the arguments for the Syntagma of the Society of Knowledge, which is a system of external evaluation and self-evaluation. Until now, it has been regulated exclusively by the Law on secondary education and needs to be established for the activity of primary education in order to monitor the quality of the education system. Work in a school institution is based, therefore, on the evaluation of all components of educational and school work and self-evaluation of direct and indirect holders of educational activities at school in order to achieve the highest quality pedagogical and educational standard. I would like to emphasise, and I believe that this is not just my subjective opinion, that actors and practitioners of educational processes in the knowledge society cannot be those employees, representatives of the profession who cannot meet with their abilities and skills the demands of contemporary primary and secondary education. As for the system of teaching, education and education according to the general cultural and civilization values. At the request of training students for life and work in a changing social cultural context according to the requirements of democratic values, the market economy, modern information communication technologies and scientific knowledge of the achievements set out in the law. The existing solutions professional training and training of teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors can, of course, still not be satisfied with the provision of quality educational work in school institutions, and there is also a lack of a licensing system. I therefore absolutely support the introduction of a licensing system, because the law says that the licence to work in a school institution is a public document proving the necessary levels of general and professional competences of teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors. The first licence for the work of teachers, teachers and professional associates shall be considered a document on the professional examination passed. Teachers, teachers, professional associates and school principals have the right and duty of course licences to be renewed every five years. I think it's also one item to support. A new system of higher education which is in line with the provisions of the Bologna Declaration requires the necessary harmonisation of existing provisions on the necessary level of training of workers in the basic and secondary education and education system. Teachers, teachers, professional associates and school directors have the right and obligation to train and train continuously through programmes approved by the ministry. Today we have already heard that it is doubtful what it is and how professional training and training is carried out, so under continued professional training in the law, individual and organised training in the profession, permanent training in the field of pedagogy, didactics, educational psychology, methods, information and communication technologies, advisory work, management, education policies and other areas of course relevant for effective high-quality education activities in school institutions. The programmes of this training of professional purposes are carried out by professional institutions responsible for education and education, and the law says that they can be implemented by higher schools or other institutions in the education system and, of course, states what the training and training programme itself should contain. You will agree with me that professional training is a prerequisite for the promotion of teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors. Innovation in this law is also that from its entry into force teachers and teachers and professional associates and directors can advance in the profession, i.e. in the five-level profession as opposed to the practice so far and gain adequate knowledge. I believe that even achieving a higher level of knowledge will result in a greater reward for their work. So the highest status teacher would probably retire with two-and-a-half times the salary of a beginner teacher. Given that we have often mentioned the profession today, I would also like to say something about the specificities of the working relationship of the director, because it is finally happening to be appointed by the school board, with the previous consent of the minister, and at five years, unlike it has been four years. So far in elementary schools it was possible that principals could also be teachers with high school supplies. The new law stipulates that a level of education is needed for the jobs of directors, universities and graduate studies. The directors must also have a license. And another clause that says that if the principal of a person is employed in a school institution, his work contract can rest during the term of the principal's term, and two consecutive terms. The same is true of the profession again and another clause that says that the school board, a board of nine members, is. It is, of course, two members of the class of teachers, teachers, and professional associates and one member of the parents ’ ranks. But the paper is also that two members of the proposal of the State Administration's Office must have completed at least a pre-graduate university study of the teaching direction or a professional study of the teaching direction in which at least 180 ECTS points are obtained. Three members on their own who must have completed at least a pre-graduate university study or a professional study which also appoints a founder, a representative of the founder. And in the end, I will support this law and expect new laws that will be equally similar to that for me, and maybe it's only about my imagination or just the recognition of newspapers that will be decided by one or the other side perhaps by voting, so I will support the laws that this ministry will propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10548	Thank you very much. I thank the esteemed representative Kalash. Now we're going to hear two more replicas on this exhibit. First of all, the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10549	Dear Representative Kalash would not normally report for the replica, but you seem to have presented me with a dangerous thesis, most likely with a quote from this 2005 development plan which, if I remember correctly, no one adheres to the date anymore, but we can still talk about it. It is about getting closer to the European system of education. The European system of education exists only in higher education. In primary and secondary education, therefore from the 1960s onwards in European documents, these education systems remain from the Copenhagen criteria to remain within the scope of national legislation. So you have one system of education that is more like... it is Austria and Slovenia, then another system of education that is particularly adapted in France so the third education system that is in Scandinavia is the fourth education system that is somewhere between Italian pa Spanish etc. So it would be difficult for me to talk about the European system of education and our approach because the European education system does not exist in this sense except that there is a system where the commitments taken are necessarily respected, so it is a system of more responsibility than education.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10550	Thank you very much. The second replica is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10551	Thank you. At the beginning of her presentation, an esteemed colleague expressed hope, desire, or called for a step toward this law. The Ministry of Education, led by Minister Primorac, has made such a step lately that it seems to me that these steps have always gone in one direction so that we have returned to the same point, i.e. we are spinning in circles. And my best step was this last time there were even graduates over "fest Book" being able to organize. So I'm waiting for when this step will somehow get its line in the near future.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10552	Thank you very much. The next one for an individual debate is the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10553	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Well, here we have opened the debate really wide today, starting on this home education committee and agreeing that those remarks that we have largely all laid down on the Committee on Education and in writing will be handed over to the proposer. I'm why I'm going to support this law I said here and correcting some allegations and participating in that way in the debate. First of all, because the whole series of school changes from preschool, primary school to secondary education began in the previous term and continues in this term and what the adoption of this law, first of all of these laws, I will say in plural because I am talking about the previous two laws, have changed several times and in practice we can say that they have often not been able to apply well. As changes were made, education has been reformed, and existing laws have changed and complemented. The new proposal defines educational activity but the activity of primary and secondary education is defined as public services in specific jobs. The objectives and principles of education in Article 4(2) of point 8 states that education in a school institution is based on decentralisation in terms of increasing powers and responsibilities at local and regional level, which should be particularly welcomed because I would say that local self-government and regional self-government units are here when it comes to both primary and secondary education put into one co-operation relationship with schools and ministries. I've stated that I've made a few remarks, so I'm going to try to point out some of them now, but because I want to shorten the debate, not all of them, so I really gave it to our secretary of state and I gave it in writing. Article 15 has primarily defined the network of schools that I particularly welcome, which has given special attention to the network of schools. In my opinion, however, it did not define exactly the entry area. Who will define in the local self-government unit, which body in the registration area? This is very problematic in practice I will also tell you a very sensitive question at least until now because so far it has not been accessed to create a network of schools, a new network of schools. I don't know any regional unit or local self-government unit that's created a new network of schools, and all because of that, so she doesn't mind someone in the city. I'll give you an example from my midst. We barely four years ago, I say we barely abolished the high school department in Topusco High School, which was a school and vocational and high school, so a mixed school in high school, and there was a letter and a number from the 1st to the 4th grade of high school of 35 or 36 students, so a dozen students. The school is located in the area of special state care but ten kilometers away from Topusski is a Glina who really has a tradition of gymnasium education. And I have to tell you, it's been very difficult to determine to abolish in a small place that had no conditions for performing a high school education. Therefore, I ask that the exact definition of which body in the local or regional self-government unit depends on the founders also defines this registration area. I also want to point out something that is also good and newspaper in this bill, which is an article 37 that defines, no one has mentioned today, but a very important role in school and it is an organization of excursions, excursions and other activities. So far, we've dealt with it through the Ministry's instructions, some of the acts that were coming from the situation in which the school was found. Now this is defined precisely by the article of the law, and it is precisely known that in the organization of one trip, excursions or other activities carried out by the school, going to the theatre, and the like must satisfy the programme. Well, then you can't take your kids for a trip to the sea to see only the sea without any purpose or activity. It's exactly what it means. There's something else I'd like to say hello to. I welcome the fourth chapter dedicated to the organization of the school. For the first time, I repeat that Article 49(3) defines the participation of the local community in the plan and the organisation of activities during student holidays. In his presentation, my colleague Klemenic, on behalf of the HSS Club, seemed to have drawn that importance and said that this had been left to the local community by now. I come from the town of Sisak, which for years since I remember 15 years back has been well organized through the community of sports associations and clubs, through the community of technical culture, through my administrative department of social activities precisely this activity at the time of school holidays, spring holidays, holidays. We have one motto that says open doors to schools, sports halls, pools to all students. But we really do organize through here public needs in local community education. It's been left to date whether someone will or won't. I think this article of the law defines this and that they are really calling for, well called for what counterpart Klemenic said in his debate that in some way the units of local self-government and regional self-government are committed to the co-operation of the school and to the organisation of the free time of students. Another thing I can't remember anymore is who pointed out and we talked a little bit, that's article 59. I welcome the ban on promotion and sales in school institutions because when you enter a school, I speak from practice, go to school and welcome you to the store where you surrender, I will not banish, but almost all products that have nothing to do with the educational process. So, from bed sheets to no idea what. So far, we've had to write in the local division the administrative departments responsible for school and only the ministry had to write a guideline almost every year forbidding such promotion, but it depended on it again and depending on the direction, on individual cases when the principal or someone from school addressed the department responsible for the school or ministry, which if someone asks to sell in the school's premises, I don't know what. I'll say one more thing here. Maybe it's about colleagues from the Ministry of Education and Education that's bound up, and that's what someone here just mentioned. It's the sale of textbooks, the sale of various teaching aids also in schools, and I have to tell you that entering classes where it's left to the principal now whether to decide whether to let some trading house work in the classrooms or not. I think it should be limited somehow, too. And finally, I see that time is running out, but I can't really mention it besides that and especially that I welcome it, but I particularly welcome the adoption, the emphasis on rights, but also the obligation of students in Article 61, and also the rights and obligations of parents in this law. So far, only in a few sentences have we talked about the rights of students and parents, but nothing about the obligations of students and parents. I think I've made some remarks on the trail of this and given it to you in writing, so I'm asking that these remarks be respected as much as possible, because this is the first reading. There's something else I have to say in the end. I'll agree with the colleagues who spoke here about this area of school management. I also welcome as a longtime director in the system of secondary education indeed this concern of the ministry and this law which points to the director a new way of choosing the director and in some way providing security for people to decide to be directors, and here in one or two mandates to have some kind of security to return to their jobs. But when it comes to the school board, I would agree with some colleagues that here we must be very careful about this appointment of members of the school board and who is appointed and which body is appointed by members of the school board. And finally, respecting that all these remarks that are in the first reading, those that really can and are justified will be respected. I think we are on the trail of another good law that my colleagues will believe will see changes, because the law exists to change, and that every situation in practice and everyday life must and change laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10554	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10555	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me in an individual debate just a few more comments on certain articles, because indeed, with everything that my colleagues and colleagues have said, there are still some remarks that no one has mentioned yet, and the law is, as we have determined on the board this morning, such that almost every article needs some kind of repair. When we talk about those goals, I think it would be good to put it inside, but not just to put it as terms, but then also to implement the values of multiculturalism in nationalcurricularity, or interculturality, because on the one hand, with the care of national identity, these are values that we will simply have to adopt if we are to become members of a larger social and state community. In one sentence, Article 56 says... They say the school uses textbooks approved by the ministry under special law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like that, the provision of that article to change and say that if the teacher uses the textbook he must be the one who approved the ministry. Namely, the flood has a textbook for various subjects. You have a gym textbook for first grade primary school. For first-class music schools where children can't read notes, they can't even read. Therefore, I think it would be good on the one hand to limit this hyperproduction, simply not to encourage teachers, parents and children to buy such textbooks, but on the other hand we also strengthen the autonomy of a primarily professional teacher in the class. There are certain pedagogical or methodical, doactic concepts, we guarantee the law the autonomy of teachers in this choice who simply say that textbooks are not working, that the textbook is the product of a joint yearly work of teachers with children, so I think that should in some way change this in Article 56. In Article 59 of the ban on promiscation, I think we should consider the term. You say that there is no promotion that is not in line with the objectives and contents of education. Under the objectives and contents of education, everything can be saved. All those corruptions that went around getting school textbooks in schools, selling behaviors, mementos, which I know you don't, fall within the goals of education and education, but I think it's a totally unacceptable promotion. Those various encyclopedias, dictionaries and things like this, I would simply simplify it and ban the promotion in schools. Point. Simply everything, because if on the one hand we are fighting against having on this side, by the publishers different attempts to get a more favourable position on the market than others, then I just think we should ban, but absolutely any promotion. Then simply these four points can be reduced to one and said no promiscuity and over. I have one question about article 105 that speaks about the competences of teachers, or their necessary professional qualifications to work at school, I ask the question of what is with the existing provision that teachers of classroom classes with enhanced teaching classes at primary school, that existed in the existing law, now there is no such thing. I repeat, a lot of classes in our schools have been unprofessionally represented teaching and these people now in the last five or six years how many exits from college have proved to be extremely well-educated, to handle excellent competences precisely for working in primary school. According to some estimates, even better than those who came out of teaching schools, who read parent science, but do not deal with enough knowledge and skills from the teaching-psychological group of subjects. So, I even think that actually this part of the teaching college should be deepened with these contents, but that's what I think a story for another discussion is. In Article 110, we say that people who do not have pedagogical-psychological education must end up in an additional form and must be at least 60 ECTS points. I say what we said today and on the board, people who graduate from teaching schools don't have 60 ECTS points from pedagogical-psychological education. People who have finished for Croatian language professors, sociology and work at school at best have one college of general didactics, one college of methodology, one pedagogy, and this is also in a very small hour and in very low status within their entire study programme. And when I was speaking on behalf of the club that it was necessary to come up with a whole law that would sort of regulate relations between all degrees of education, then I kind of thought that we had to in some way establish a functional relationship between the new system of Bologna study and the graduate education of all those who work at school with the necessary competences. We've had a unique opportunity around the Bologna process to say ok. if you have completed the first module of graduate studies of any parent science, any of these pedagogical classes if you want to work at school then in this first case you should graduate in graduate school or if you intend to teach the course in the graduate study course. And that's why I'm saying that we really need a whole law on education that not only regulates education infrastructure but also all relationships at all levels of education. In Article 117, it is defined that a qualification license for teachers who are perfectly fine but I think it must be elaborated in more detail in the law. That licenses are issued by the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. The Centre for the External Evaluation of Education under the Law on the Centre for External Evaluation of Education, according to why people are employed there cannot be an institution that will license teachers. It should either be either the Education and Education Agency because it is held there in its organisation by the professional training of teachers or it should be the Lifelong Education Agency, which then, in some ways, covers that part. I may be more prone to variants of the Education and Education Agency, but unfortunately, it's the decision of some others, and I repeat again, I really feel that we need a roof law to regulate this entire educational infrastructure. We'll remember tomorrow some other, third, fifth and seventeen agencies without actually knowing who's doing what, and by 100 laws, looking for where they are? In Article 141, there is an interesting detail that no one has yet mentioned that speaks about where public needs are financed in the activities of education and education. So public needs. Among other things, one indent says that these public needs are financed by parents' payments for special school activities. I can assume from school experience what it might be. That's what we're going to school in nature so give the participation of so many kunas. Either we're going on a trip or we're going to the theater, so give me the money. But I think we must guarantee that in this sense, the achievement of mandatory school "curriculum" because it must then enter the school "curriculum" must not be done in such a way that parents must pay something extra. Not even in elementary school which is mandatory and free of charge and under this law or in high school which is neither mandatory nor free of charge, but I don't think we should keep the obligation in this way that parents have to pay for any additional things. And this is how the situation in schools is quite, I choose a term, sensitive about the equipment itself, so it's very common for parents to finance photocopying, buying test assignments and 100 other wonders that should actually be perfectly normal for one schoolwork but it's very dangerous to put public school needs funded by parents by paying directly to school. Parents pay this through tax and this is the obligation of the State to this decentralised part of the units of local self-government. Around these individual points, I'm really asking you to comply with the standards on one side, with the other laws. You're a language lecturer. In my ten - minute discussion, my colleague Flego seemed to have been able to reach the sixth or seventh article. The law has 130 and something and indeed everyone deserves the attention they need. Somewhere by talking to the ministry's presidents to say good, we've been working. That's what more people worked from different departments and administrations because we, we have special administrations. We have an administration at the Department of Elementary, especially for high school. It just shows how unnatural it is in some way that this is in one law. They work in different systems, in different administrations, they write differently, and then, of course, it turns out to be a pretty unconsistent mixture. And about what was now in the debate. Again, colleagues from HDZ spoke about free textbooks, transportation, compulsory high school. I mean, I'd be like someone who's from education, who cares about that education was the first to support such things by writing in the law. I'd like her to write in law. However, whatever you say is done does not appear to be in the law. If it's working, I don't see any reason why it shouldn't be written in law. Because otherwise, someone has some sort of half-secret plan or I don't know what because for some reason, he's afraid of things he's proud of and he's doing, written in law. I just can't read anyone's mind, but I can read the law, and if you really care about it, I think you should put it all in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10556	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10557	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm going to pick up where my colleague ended up in mandatory schooling. Indeed interestingly, I have already said this to the debate today, in the discussion we had on the board, that colleagues and colleagues from the SDP are concerned about the implementation of the points of our coalition agreement and, among other things, the compulsory secondary education. Be assured that what we promised, what we wrote there, will certainly be realized. Or we'll try to make it real, even with your help. Because when you talk about high school becoming mandatory then it must be clear that the Constitution has to be changed. In order for this to be a reality, then, we need to change the Constitution. And that's what we're talking about. Of course it's our commitment and that we want high school education to be mandatory and that we'll do everything we can to make it so. Speaking of free textbooks, they're already reality today. They're in the budgets. Therefore, they are used daily. These are concrete textbooks. They're no fantasy. That's concrete. Today in schools you have free textbooks funded by the Ministry and this is a decision made every year and in the budget, and it is clear to everyone that it is a concrete programme of the Ministry and concrete decisions. And the third thing you said about our pre-election promises is free transportation. You've got him in your budget, too. You also have him in your budget. And you understand even from this law. In this Act, two places as you have well noticed there is funding for free transport. One speaks of government budgets being provided for. Others make units of regional self-government finance free transport. It's actually about funds that are decentralised functions. It is about the funds obtained from the state budget, which are transferred to the county budgets and, of course, that this is foreseen both by the budgets and by the state budget and by the budget of the unit of the regional self-government. And or units of local self-government who, by law, acquired the right to be the founder of school institutions, above all, of primary schools. We mean cities that are, that have conditions. But here I would continue, I think that the solution that is in the law should in some way improve that I said to the Committee today and it concerns the founders and transfer of founding rights from the Republic of Croatia to units of local self-government or to units of regional self-government. It is not good to set the possibility for me that the units of the district self-government must give consent to what the state will transfer the founding right to the local self-government unit. So to the city or the community. I think that this option should simply be deleted because the Republic of Croatia can and should transfer the founding rights to those municipalities and cities that have enough fiscal capacity, which have enough budgetary resources to be able to organise the implementation of all programmes within schools and in some way be able to monitor and schedule the funds and in that sense there is no reason for the units of regional self-government to be and to give consent. Why am I saying that? Because in practice we have situations that, for political reasons, the unit of regional self-government does not allow a particular unit of local self-government to take over the founding rights of itself and take care of, say, the primary school that is in its area. So who better to take care of them than their own children? It is said to children of those same people who are also members of the chieftains and members of the unit of local self-government, they are closest to them. And so I really don't see any reason, I'm saying if they're capable, how many conditions they have for such a thing or I'm going to say a concrete example of the Konavle municipality that I think already made one such request to the ministry, it's a municipality that has significantly higher budget revenues than many cities in our county. There are higher incomes than Ploč and Metkovic, I mean even from Obuzen, etc. So if there are some hundreds of millions of kunas per year, the municipality cannot care about a primary school because it does not allow them to have counties for political reasons. And this same county has incomes from the original much less than the Konavle municipality has. The same county has incomes twice lower than Konavle municipality, original revenues because other revenues come from the state budget. Is it? So I think that this illogicality should be removed, I have already appealed to the committee, here and now I ask that it be considered, that it is really simple to get it out of the law, that it is necessary to agree, and I think it is not necessary if the Republic of Croatia, or if the state, if the ministry assesses that a municipality can meet all the conditions necessary, then it would also follow that it is the founder of a particular institution, a school institution that has no reason for any lower body to give consent to the Republic of Croatia for such a thing. I think there's an illogicality, and in that sense, I'm asking it to be corrected. I think the law is absolutely complex, that it's good, that it's on a great track. This is a living matter that changes from day to day, all those who are in school, who are involved in education and education, and they know how much approaches are changed from day to day in individual subjects and throughout the education system from the introduction of new technologies, from the approach to the European Union, at which point we are present. Of course, all of this should be taken into account and it is really necessary to provide for children, the school population in the best way possible to prepare for what is ahead of them in life and in some way to direct them to their entire life education constantly. There were words when we talked about some other laws here properly, we specifically talked about the Transport Safety Act, and then on the right, and the President on the left turned out to be more concerned about the need for further introduction of the subject of traffic education. And from all of this, we are clear, especially to those who are involved in education, who are concerned with the issue of education that it is necessary to actually relieve students, to leave them one freedom in creating their interests, in creating their personality. Because if we impose on them the full-day rhythm of school hours, we'll keep them so tight in their freedom to choose their own paths, that they simply won't be able to respond to those smallest demands. So, I think we should really consider discharging the hours in that sense I think that the ministry is on a great track and that everything that it does in this respect is very good and I don't think we should burden our children with additional items, which is more concrete and already present in other subjects that are still being taught. I think a good newspaper is a licensing system because it will introduce order on those teachers, educators, professors and on the subject of a director and a two-term restriction I think it's also good if we can limit, if we're already limited that mayors, local self-government leaders also have 2 mandates, I think it's good and it's in schools because we really have a situation where individuals have been in certain positions for decades and this is a question really whether much more could be done to actually manage school more dynamically. I think that we must base what we are experiencing today and experience and that we are dealing with having to leave space and that some new forces take the lead and in this sense we have no objection to limiting it to 10 years because the director's mandates will be extended to 5 years, we think that this is an entirely sufficient period for the individual's energy to be monitored from day to day in such a responsible school manager's place, which is really dynamic from day to day, the school's teaching process is being monitored day to day. Personally, I was a school principal who had over a thousand students from preschool, primary school to high school education with different programmes and it is really almost impossible to be intense in that job for more than 10 years. I think it's a simple reality, and in that sense I welcome those provisions. The question of the school boards is a particular question, I have already said that this proposal is in some way, no matter how balanced it is, in some ways it leaves room for politicizing and for involvement of politics within the school. I think that those who enter the school board should primarily be at the aid of the school itself and in the design of the programme and in everything that is important for the functioning of the school and as little politics as possible in terms of day policy. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10558	Thank you. We have two replicas. First Mrs. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10559	Comrade Matušić, we are concerned about the implementation of our programme. At your beginning of the discussion. Namely, in our programme and that before we said so, Minister Primorac 1.3 last year is just an extension of the duration of compulsory education, and for that reason we, too, have personally come into conflict with the former Minister of Strugar, for those who may have remembered the whole genealogy of things for a little while longer. If it is, you're talking about the Constitution and that it will, right now, except it isn't, don't be angry, but I've heard too many times there's going to be something, so it doesn't eventually happen or come out. If that's the government's policy behind the government, then I don't see any reason why we're not going to change the Constitution. And I mean, my support in this is going to, I mean, personally get that we understand each other about the length of compulsory education, and I'm sure I'm not the only one from the SDP club. These things you said about free textbooks and stuff. If that's the case, why the law. I'm asking you if the proposer of free textbooks doesn't put into law until the second reading here I am here and publicly and asking and calling for you to believe that it is being implemented, that together you and I submit an amendment to enter into the law as an obligation to finance the state. If what you're saying is true. I'd like to see you and I together then submit that amendment to the final text of the law, because obviously we agree on that, but the law just doesn't say that. And about the freedom that you've been saying and that. One hundred percent of the school program is centralized and defined now in curricula and programmes. And when we talked about the need to decentralisation software to say localization of school programs precisely because of the conditions that you say the constant situation changes not from day to day, but in a very fast rhythm and that's one of the reasons why we judge this law as quite... and conceptually outdated. Because it doesn't offer, among other things, this new part of the program decentralisation with which I believe you absolutely agree with me. He rewrites the state that is now in school, it was called curicula, the plan and the program in content remains in some way conceptually the exact same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10560	Thank you. Mr. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10561	I'll try to answer your replica in a row. In your presentation, you have just referred to the Croatian Democratic Community programme. You were worried about whether or not we were going to realize what we were actually realizing. I don't think the law needs to be out of control, but we really need to put everything that's tied up in law school. I don't think so. Free textbooks are a reality that has already been decided and implemented. If you think it's necessary, if the ministry thinks it's necessary, I'm sure the ministry won't mind, but free textbooks are already part of the system and they're allotted as such. So he shouldn't have put everything that's said in school, so we should put it all in the law. We really don't. And I remembered something else when you were talking about donations. I think the most relevant part of that part is from your previous performance. It's mostly about art schools, participatory parents. In fact, instruments in art schools are extremely expensive. One piano concert "Steiner" best in that category, it comes in over 100, 110, 120 thousand euros. So it is also impossible for the ministry to finance despite the lack of music art schools, only 70th in Croatia. And it is simply impossible to finance these needs from the state budget, and in this sense, this possibility of participation, voluntary participation of parents has been left behind, and in this way it is legally possible to cover it. The fact that it's actually been working for years in art schools and in this sense I welcome it, I think it's a good thing the ministry has left as a possibility, because it helps, watch the use of this piano every day, that piano in schools can last 4-5 years. You have a school specifically art school in Dubrovnik with 11 or 12 piano teachers. Each of them has at least one piano in the room or some of them, of course, have two and now you can think what the cost is every day and every year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10562	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10563	Dear counterpart Matušić, I think the opposition is also serving to take care of the implementation of the ruling party's programme or the ruling coalition. The more the ruling coalition's decisions depend not only on the life of the coalition's voters but on the whole of the country. And therefore, it is also good for the opposition to be strong enough to make it impossible for them to sleep peacefully and to oil themselves. I think that's the general starting point of politics and parliamentary democracy. But on the other hand, I always get a little chilly when someone's talking about categorical courts in future times. I don't know what's gonna happen. So I don't know whether the government will meet its commitments and promises safely or not. Let's say 12.1. of this year I talked about how the past government that is more or less composed of the same people as this one has not fulfilled its education promises just read the government's 2004 and 2008 programmes and you'll see that some of the things in 2008 are less articulated but repeated because they are not fulfilled in the last four-year period. So I'm skeptical that the government will surely meet its commitments. But if the government is so sure, it would be good to put these obligations into law so that the state has a commitment and the population guarantees that it will be done without being left just on a coalition agreement and a government programme. In that sense, it was my intervention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10564	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10565	Thank you. Well, I thought the role of the opposition was a little more complex, a little wider, not just to make sure that the ruling party was reminded of the promises she made. Those promises will, in fact, justify themselves in their term of office and come before voters again and I think, and in that sense, the role of the opposition is not certain that it is good. I'm in opposition, say, at the county level, I think there should be other solutions in the opposition if it is not satisfied with the solutions offered by the ruling coalition. I think it's the role of the opposition. If he thinks he's got better solutions then to come up with better solutions, not to follow what we're going to follow, so we follow it ourselves, we realize it, we write it, the budget is the best proof of it. And as for some security that I express that something will certainly happen, I am an optimist, so I like to say that it will certainly happen because I am convinced that this will actually be realized and in this sense, here I am asking you to accept such an optimistic attitude. Here I was also optimistic in the election that we would win again and we won again and then accept that security I spoke about when I was introducing compulsory high school education.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10566	Thank you. Let's move on. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10567	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I support the proposal for a law on education and education in primary and secondary schools bearing the label of the proposal for a European law, which in one segment marks the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, while in other new solutions ensuring the approximation of the Croatian system of secondary and primary education to the relevant systems of the Member States of the European Union. On the basis of the planned development of the activities contained in the strategic development document, the development plan for the education and education system from 2005 to 2010, the National Programme for the introduction of compulsory secondary education, adopted by the Government of the Prime Minister in 2007 by Dr. Ivo Sanader adopted the Parliament, the need to coordinate the activities of primary and secondary education as part of a single system of education and the necessity to comply with the legislation of the European Union is a logical sequence of procedures for regulating and redefining relations in this highly important area of society of each country, and so Croatia is, in particular, because the Croatian state has defined itself as a knowledge-based society. I was referring to the current laws that regulated this activity in the correction of the allegations, and for these reasons it was necessary to change them and offer unique solutions by respecting the specificities of both levels of education and education as contained in this proposal of the law that the Government delivered to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption in the first reading. Speaking of the proposal for this law, there is no mention of the adoption of the National Pedagogical Standards for Preschool Education and Education as well as the primary and secondary education and education systems adopted two weeks ago, which set out the criteria for material, financial, human and other conditions necessary for the achievement of educational activities and equal development of these systems throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In my debate, I would like to highlight several newspapers offered by this law, so I would like to start immediately from a network of schools and programs, although it has been several times today in individual discussions of colleagues and colleagues already highlighted. In the light of the proposal for this law, it states that the existing laws did not regulate the planning of a network of school institutions and programmes to ensure the availability and rationality of the attainment of the educational process, and this law or proposal of the law prescribes the adoption of a network of school institutions and programmes as a set of existing programmes and institutions that carry out the activities of education in one area with all their educational facilities and areas where a school institution can be established. The proposal for a network of school institutions in its area is adopted by the representative body of the unit of local, regional and local self-government and brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister. And now I would refer to what we heard today in the debate. It is true that in the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, colleagues and colleagues, there is a provision that so far the proposal for a network of primary and secondary institutions in its field is passed by the representative body of the unit of regional, i.e. regional or regional self-government. I agree with those in the debate today who have asked to be deceded, so the words in this bill say which units are local self-government. We know that so far the founding rights of primary schools have cities, their secretary of state today told me 34 are currently having founding rights over primary schools and secondary schools are established, founding rights on them have counties. Therefore, not all units of local self-government, as the law now provides, are to establish a network of primary schools in your area because you allow in my Brod-Posavina County where primary schools exist, the founding rights are in the county and therefore such units of local self-government are not subject to the provision of this law, so in the debate, I advocate to decedify and say they are the ones that have founding rights over elementary schools. Further introduction of external evaluation and evaluation systems and basic education, as this has been resolved only in secondary education and for the purpose of monitoring and improving the quality of the primary and secondary education system, then a different commitment to professional training of workers, the introduction of a licence of which the professional examination is considered to be the first and is confirmed every five years, the possibility of advancement in the profession or occupation in five levels, the rewarding system and the rest of which opens a new perspective for school workers, in a certain way returning both dignity and in a better way edit the status of employees in education. In accordance with the new system of higher education, the proposal for this law lays down the level of the necessary training of workers in the system of primary and secondary education and education but also protects and regulates the rights of workers employed in schools indefinitely at the time of entry into force of this law. What I would especially like to commend is the position of the director in the proposal for this law as the head of the school, management and professional head of the school institution that is well-organized in a new way. The school board shall appoint a director with the prior consent of the minister. I consider this a good and direct link between the Ministry of School and the founder of an institution that gives a newer and more full meaning to the function and responsibilities of the first man of the educational institution which is equally responsible for both the Minister and the Founder. The paper is also that the director's mandate is extended from four to five years to now, which we also consider justified. What all the present and future directors will certainly welcome is the job insurance at the school where he was if he was employed indefinitely, so before his appointment as director. The place would be kept for a maximum of two consecutive terms because I did not realize that this law limited the term of office of director or that it could not be nominated and that it could not be appointed director of a primary or secondary school within more than two mandates. With regard to the necessary technical arrangements since 2012, the need for a graduate university study for a director is determined, which is also an appreciation of the real state that today, in the system of education of vocational staff for primary schools, there are no pre-graduate studies but are all university graduates. And it is correct for the existing directors who do not now have that if they are interested in continuing to perform their duties as director for the next four years, they need professional training and acquire it, clearly with the licence prescribed by this law as a need for all school professionals. The work experience for the director has been found to require an 8-year training period in schools or other institutions in the system of education or public administration authorities responsible for education, which is mandatory for five years on educational work in school institutions. Perhaps it could be considered that the law should be introduced and recognised and the insurance internship achieved in the bodies of local and regional self-government responsible for education. The school board is returning again to nine members as we had before the amendment and addition of the 2005 law but with a different structure, where I primarily think about introducing one member from the working council and two members on the proposal of the Office of State Administration. The structure of the others is two in the order of the teaching or teaching council, one in the order of parents, three founders appoints themselves. I also welcome the paper on the required level of education for the members of the school board because this is also laid down by law for other activities of health care, social care, and is now being introduced as an obligation for the activities of primary and secondary education. Thus, the members proposing the Office of State Administration must have a certain degree of education of the teaching course, all appointed by the founder on their own, so from that order, three independently also prescribed levels of education, namely at least completed pre-graduate university or professional studies. A member of the school board, I also welcome, is now defined by the order of parents not to be an employee of the school, and his term ends no later than 60 days from the day the student stopped schooling. And finally, what I particularly welcome is the clear establishment of the rights and obligations of all participants in the system by students, parents, teachers, founders, local communities, and with the obligation to connect and cooperate school institutions, I believe that this does not only contribute to improving the quality of educational work in school institutions, but is a prerequisite and a guarantee of its achievements, thus improving quality. For all these reasons, I will support the Proposal for a Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school in first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10568	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10569	Dear fellow Members Bilić Vardić, you are not the first and not the only one mentioned as one of the most important things in harmonising this law with the objectives, the development goals of this strategy, or the development plan of the education and education system in 2005-2010 as a strategic document. I have that document in front of me now. I wish everyone had read it in some way before this law was passed, because there are obvious disagreements. Just one example, because I just don't have time anymore. The 2005-2010 Development Plan says it will take place in the school year 2005/2006. Introducing elements of HNOS, 5% of schools, etc., that was settled. It's good. 2006/2007. all primary schools will start with the application of HNOS and the national instruction manual. HNOS has all started to apply, and the national instruction manual, which is probably the translation of the word curriculum not only did not begin to apply all schools as it said in 2006/2007, but in half of 2008, we are discussing in the first reading that it will possibly just be, I don't know, in 2009 or 2010, with everything being developed forward about this instructional manual whatever it is. And then by the end of 2007, and it's all been the same for a long time, that all teachers will pass the training programme for the implementation of HNOS and the new manual. It's all supposed to be done, and if you're saying it, and everybody read it from the explanation of what the ministry wrote, that it's harmonizing with each other, then it would be convenient for each other, I mean as advocates to read and sort of compare that it's just not true. This is on one example. You have such examples very much still here about the license, about this professional training, social cohesion that exists in a whole chapter we must have needed about the negotiating positions on social cohesion, on education in law or dictionary, etc., etc. There's a lot of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10570	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Bilic Wardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10571	Thank you very much. I won't steal anyone's time. We've been here too long. My colleague, this is the first reading of the law, and I believe that everything that you and the other participants have said today in the debate that the promoters have heard and they will choose from it what this law should be. Therefore, we should not waste time, we will have the opportunity to discuss the law in another reading here and hope to adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10572	Thank you. Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10573	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Since my colleagues talked a lot about it, and there was a replica, I would have said in my presentation, only a few remarks, or possible improvements, but also a comment on what it looked like in practice, and I listened here when Miss Kalash talked about it, she got a line from Mr. Flege, and as it is in Slovenia, as it is in Austria, we can talk in Germany. Well, I even discovered in German school that they may have elements of Shuvar's school today, and it can be defended in some way, but in another system, in another country where the material conditions are better. Since almost all of these areas have been touched, I might have been bound by the secretary of state something to say to instigate pedagogical measures, the number of hours, maybe related to when the student has problems at school, when he should have some kind of exclusion, when he has the right to take the class, maybe to determine the number of hours, I couldn't notice it in this law. What makes me so happy here is the evaluation of school institutions. Valuation of school institutions may also be a suggestion for school competitions. I think it's good, especially vocational schools, to be installed in one way because you know there are schools that don't send students to competitions, especially that's an example in vocational schools that are expensive, so if they don't have their own good school workshops yet, so if it's not in private persons, and I think it's necessary and that it might contribute in one way to this evaluation. And something about professional training means licensing. I certainly think that's good. Whether it's going to be, I've heard comments here, I don't know this agency or she, in any case I think it's good and that besides this first degree of licensing where you're talking about a professional exam. How familiar I was with vocational schools was also that those engineers who worked in such specific vocational schools had to take the pedagogical exam, had to also take some professions and professional exams in order to do the job and to be considered professional. Maybe that's my note about this license. And now for the management of the school institution, or for the school board. I can also list some examples here regarding the school board. Come on, I'm in a county where the SDP is in power and I have, say, an observation, maybe it's not on purpose, but on the school board, I think they should be representatives of the local community. We used to be. I'm working with a primary school today because I know the principal, I was an employee of the school myself, and we don't have a funding obligation in any way we're giving a lot of funding and we're working on material conditions, because it's a lot of schools, we're trying to give help, so from the basic ones for building repairs to learning acquisitions. But we're doing the same thing, because in our field it's a professional school, but I say vocational schools are very, very expensive and where a machine if you want this new education now that Europe has long known, and we have some schools, some of them may not have them, so where it takes 300, 400 thousand kuna to buy a machine for here's numerical management to go to a modern one, so if I said so, maybe now someone would call me again if we were to coordinate it. So if we buy such machines, it's already one sign that we're going in that direction, and I know the schooling of both Slovenia and Austria, so it can be pollemized about it, but maybe it's, not now. And as far as the school board is concerned, I would also add that it's okay to have this level of education that is certainly necessary, that a number of people who will come to it on one basis but also that maybe if the local community is able to do so. She certainly needs it for me. Is going through some of this model but we had this, so now we don't even have where I am, and maybe others have it, so maybe it's just an example of us. And these rights and obligations of parents are certainly well mentioned here but also what perhaps no one has pointed out today is it then an incentive when a social worker comes or is it just a punishment? In some ways, I think it's a series of these newspapers because my colleagues have previously said a lot in their debate so I don't want to repeat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10574	Thank you. Replica Madam Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10575	In your discussion, you suggested that the results of the competition, if I understood correctly, be used in some way in the school evaluation system. I think that would be very bad for school. We have had very often situations so far that schools have been valued, I don't know, the 15th Zagreb High School of the former MIOC it's the best school since their children win informational medals, 1st place in all possible competitions. However, children who came to Zagreb's MIOC, who achieve these super medals that are absolutely valuable, I think excellent achievements are children who came from Zagreb's urban environment and everyone with 5.0. And in my view, by external evaluation, in terms of school achievement, is a better school in Ivanac which was, I don't know, a secondary school in Ivanac who was the second or third in national exams that, at that point in time, students had so I would say students were significantly worse and worse and graded and everything else and actually made the results that they were pairing with. School competitions work mostly well because of individual commitment. You've got a kid who's been playing the violin for years, so he's at some school or high school county state competition for the first time. Immediately this music culture teacher becomes great even though this student's achievement has no but absolutely or very little connection or in rare cases is directly related to the work of the school or that teacher. Schools simply do not have the same conditions, nor is it a direct consequence of what is being done at school. I think that would be very bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10576	Mr. Mance's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10577	Well, here you go, buddy. I was talking about professional schools here in the first place because I know it's impossible in the local middle of the smaller and when it comes to high school, it's not even a comparison. I don't know, I think the practice has shown whether or not the promoter is going to adopt it and whether it's going to be valued that way because look, you have a selected population here. In these smaller environments you cannot reach the chosen population. I heard it here, compared to that schooling. Look... the speaker is off....is too many students who go to that high school program. If we compare this with these countries that are mentioned here in Austria and so on, it is mostly that passability goes for example from an electric school to an Electrical Engineering Faculty. You know. So with, if you're going to speak from your point of view, maybe so. But if you're watching these vocational schools and competitions, I don't know one machine shop, one tokar, or today on these numbered machines... I think that school that did it, and I have to say that school depends on what kind of headmaster has. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it possible for it to come to the means in another way where these people through production, through a certain way, come to the point that they can create such conditions I think they should be given these opportunities. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10578	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10579	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Among the issues covered by this law, we also have the obligations or responsibilities of schools to increase school security and also the health care of students. I don't think it's really anybody, nobody's looked back on this article in 67, and that's why I'm only going to focus on that only article that's actually talking about safety and health protection in school institutions. If we look at the article, we see that the duties of school institutions are actually written. They're well-numbered, but it seems to me that they are, it's all so principled and general. Schools are educational institutions, and where better to learn about maintaining health than in schools? Where we can better adopt health - styles of life, or healthy lifestyles, than schools. But the school must have more concrete obligations to implement preventive programmes for the preservation, preservation of health. We have often heard these days discussing other laws that there is no room for education for life. However, it is the school’s responsibility to give students the opportunity to adopt healthy lifestyles or behaviors and health habits. I would also like to express the need to specify all these items, which are, in fact, listed in this Law, Law 67. Because it can be interpreted in different ways, so it cannot be evaluated well. And besides, the problems that we witness on a daily basis are actually about the great need for care for children’s health. In fact, school children or school children and youth account for 15% of the population and health care should ensure smooth growth and development and, of course, physical and psychological maturation of these young people. And that is why I say that this is a specific period, a period which also has a multifactorial impact on this growth and development, and therefore the specificity of healthcare is that it must be seen early, that the problem must be recognised, that the attitudes and habits of a healthy lifestyle must be adopted, or that it should develop the responsibility of each of these young beings for, in essence, respecting their own health means adopting these healthy lifestyles. And of course, there is an important protection of health related to learning problems or school adjustment. We know what the situation is. We also mentioned ESPAD's research and we see that as far as drugs are concerned, we have enlargement, we also have trends in smoking, drinking, the use of psychoactive means drugs and also the risky sexual behaviors of young people, and all of this is an indicator that is actually necessary, it needs this health education or adoption of healthy lifestyles. And school is the meaning of this educational institution where our children are together, where we can spend the best of our health education. So we all agree that school is, that school promotes health or that it raises healthy lifestyles. Now, just for a little while, I'd like to make a few remarks about this law 67. In fact, when we look at paragraph 1, he says he is concerned about the basic needs of his disciples. Watch out, what are the basic needs of the students. We know that the basic psychological needs of students are belonging, power, entertainment, or freedom. Are those physiological needs? I think it's either health or psychosocial and health care, depending on what we think in health. Do we think in health by definition of the World Health Organization or think of health as just a physical component. Then, item 2 says to create conditions for healthy mental and physical development and the social well-being of students. I would suggest here to say raising children for healthy mental, physical, etc. Then, for example, point 5 states to ensure the conditions for the success of each student in learning. Do you mean students with special needs here? Is that it? That is, we see another paragraph 6 when it is said to take care of the student's health. I would add to working with school medicine doctors on achieving a programme of health care measures for school children and youth because according to what it says, it says that they are required to report, but I don't know if there is a colleague in school medicine, I think it's better to have an interactive attitude, not only to report but actually it's also a duty to report. However, if you notice anything, but it is not understood here that the conditions for the implementation of preventive protection should also be ensured in accordance with the programmes and norms that bring health care as a health system. Here, I hope I think these objective things can be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10580	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And finally, Mr. Secretary of State Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10581	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow at the end of this debate to thank you all who have made your contribution to the proposals to improve some of the solutions in this bill, we will, of course, take a phonogram from this debate tomorrow and consider it all, but I will repeat it once again if your esteemed MPs in your debates were not enough time to express everything you wanted to say, I would kindly ask you to provide us in writing all of your proposals that we will gladly consider and accept those solutions that will significantly improve the one we have made for now. I will remind you that we have reached a number of legal solutions in this way starting in 2004 when in this House we passed the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education when we really demonstrated openness, when we accepted everything that you had proposed and dared to say, we really passed one very high-quality law. I hope that's the way it's gonna be now. We have actually demonstrated our openness in the past term, and I dare say, and here it has been mentioned, so the minister's attitude towards everyone who is employed in education and the whole ministry's relationship to them. Indeed, through this cooperation, we have tried to make them fully involved and maximum affirmation, I will only remind you that in the external evaluation business that we have hired all our colleagues from the chambers and as test coordinators and as members of expert working groups, as members of different committees and that this is quite a number. Of course we'll get on with it. I would also like to point out that in this bill we have not touched on acquired rights or have been raised or have remained in some parts the same. We tried so hard to make it a lot more of the first one. So we find that part very important, and we hope that you will also contribute to your proposals. Once again, thank you to all those who participated in the debate, we expect your cooperation on making a final draft of the law, and I hope that next time we discuss that you will also recognize your solutions in the final draft of the law. Your Honor, Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-29-0.u10582	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will decide most likely tomorrow morning I repeat again from 9.30 p.m. the vote begins, at 12 o'clock is that solemn part of the celebration of the 18 years of the Croatian Parliament. I wish everyone a pleasant evening and night. Good night. Proposal for a law on education and education in primary and secondary schools, P.Z.E. No. 84, first is reading. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the proposal for a law on education and education in primary and secondary schools is accepted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions raised will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. What's the score? This bill was passed with 80 votes for, 6 abstentions and 38 against. We're done voting with this. At 12:00 is the ceremony of the Day of the Croatian Assembly. I'm asking that those MPs who didn't take the unnecessarily paper out of their benches to remove them, because we have guests, etc. And you've been divided into boxes by materials. As for the next session, it will depend on proposals that will arrive in the meantime whether it will start on June 11th or 18th and will continue until the end of the session. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 12:00.
