ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20871	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The annual State's Attorney's Office report before you has been made up in the same way as in the last few years so that the basis of the indicators can be monitored just after years of structure and the movement of reported crime. In this way we try to get to know this House of the High with the state and movement of crime and the work of the State's Attorney's Office to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal offences and jobs in connection with the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia. The content and methodological similarity with reports from earlier years enables data to be compiled and thus also an overall assessment of the state of and the movement of crime in the Republic of Croatia, as well as an assessment of the work of the State's attorney in the persecution of perpetrators of criminal offences and on the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, it should be pointed out that this is not a report by the chief state attorney, but a report by 72 state attorneys and 504 deputy state attorneys and other employees in the 61 municipal state attorney's office, 20 county state's attorneys and USKOK. Finally, I note that this report refers to 2007 and that the procedure was delivered somewhere else in April, May of this year, and the question can be asked whether, after the latest crimes, the most important problems are clearly organised in this report and in the right way. Before I try to answer such a question, allow me just a few words in the introduction. Strengthening economic relations, above all, is the case in all criminal law and crime manuals, legally leads to the strengthening of organised crime because in a situation of stable growth and criminals have more opportunities to legalise illegally acquired assets. But also "most prominent" criminals immediately return to criminal protection methods as soon as their interests are compromised. It is logical that the deepening of their conflicts, the sharing of interest, increases the amount and level of violence. All of this applies primarily to transition countries but not just to them. An effective response to increased criminal activity is only possible if it works in two main directions at the same time, at least that's what we think. First, at the general strengthening of the institutions of the system, where the issue of professionalisation of all state services is crucial, although we rarely misrepresent the process as depoliticisation. Secondly, to the democratic politicisation of all social forces without which they are illusoryly hoping and expecting success in the fight against organised crime. All key actors of social life in Croatia must step up pressure on the essential institutions of the system in order to respect the legal and moral democratic and political norms consistently in performing social affairs and in acting in public functions. This applies to everything starting with this High House whose authority and democratic legitimacy is irreplaceable through the highest public and special social groups that care for general interest such as religious organisations, scientific communities, NGOs, public media, etc. and what's certainly happened in the past few months, unwarrantedly. While the democratic politicisation plan allows the state's attorney's office to only join such demands is different when it comes to strengthening the system's institutions. We have two levels of state's attorney's action here. First, our contribution to the training of the entire repressive and judicial system depends on which the successful activity of the state's attorneyship itself depends. I am primarily thinking about reforming international justice and strengthening international cooperation without which there is no efficiency in opposing organised crime but also through amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Police Powers, the Criminal Law and the relevant laws in the field of finance that will enable financial investigations to be conducted in close cooperation with certain services of the Ministry of Finance such as the Department of Tax Crimes, the Financial Police and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. We have been working intensively on this first and general strengthening of the repressive and judicial system for several years, and we have often talked and warned about it in our previous annual reports. The second level of our action is to build and strengthen the state's attorneyship itself, which among the institutions of the system has a special constitutionally precise role of an independent and independent judicial body, a law enforcement body because we are indeed only one link in the chain of repression, starting with the regular authorities in a broader sense as bodies of detection through the state's attorney as law enforcement bodies and the judicial authority as bodies of the trial. If we come from the notorical fact that the chain is as firm as the weakest link, then it is quite clear why it is important for us all to be equally qualified for our role because only so synergy can we achieve the necessary strength and efficiency. Unfortunately, the professional, humane, technological and organisational technical issue of the state's attorney's office over the past few years has been our greatest task, our priority. The lawyer's call is not attractive. A large number of people go to other people’s better jobs annually, so at the end of 2007, 93 seats of state lawyers and deputies were unfulfilled, although that is not usually the public’s view. This is all said in our report, and for this I believe that it is still current and even after the recent events that have rocked the sense of security of our citizens and led to the broadest social consensus on decisive measures in the fight against organised crime because this report with this exhaustion gives in particular in the table shows a whole series of data that allow your objective conclusion on the state and movement of crime according to submitted reports, stressing the reports submitted and the actions taken to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. The fact that in 2007 there have been no major changes compared to the previous few years, that all the main number indicators say that there is a minor drop in reporting crime and that the state's attorneyship as a whole has kept reaching the level of urgency should not be seen as closing our eyes to the problems we have faced nor as underestimating those who are just waiting for us, I am talking about problems, but as a awareness that stabilising positive trends is a fundamental prerequisite for the concentration of power to the problems we have faced in the past months or who are just waiting for us. So I ask you to pay attention to the following basic indicators in the report, at least as I consider them to be the most important or important. In 2007, a total of 88 thousand new applications were received against known and unknown perpetrators or 4% less than a year earlier. The basis of significant crime movements is the decline in the number of reports against known perpetrators by 3% and the decline in the number of reports against unknown perpetrators by 9%. This latest data is more important than this first one, against the known perpetrators because the number of charges against unknown perpetrators is more objective and more real and more realistic and can be seen in the real state of crime in the Republic of Croatia. The structure of the criminality of all known and unknown persons has not been significantly altered compared to the year before. The most numerous crimes against property are 56%, then abuse of intoxicating drugs 7%, and freedom and the rights of man and citizen around 6%. As the three-month inflow of new applications, the number of applications that remained in operation is well below the quarterly inflow, this gives us the basis for claiming that the criminal provisions of the state's attorneys were up-to-date. There were 64 thousand criminal charges against known perpetrators in the paper, and at the end of the year there were 10 thousand and 658 applications from which 138 applications were made in the state's attorney's office, and the rest were made in the work of other state bodies. Compared to the known persons reported, 52,000 measurement decisions were made. Directly accused, 51.5% were charged, 37.5% of applications and investigations were resolved, and 11% more applications were filed. The number of rejections is high because in the state's attorney's office, because the state's attorney's office is not the only one whose applications are generally better instructed than citizens and other legal entities. On the other hand, we have a relative number of rejections of criminal charges against minors due to the principle of opportunity or purpose, and also in relation to the criminal offence of drug abuse referred to in Article 173(1). The Penal Code of the State Attorney's Office has decided to reject a large number of criminal charges for easier forms of intoxicating drugs and for the first time those who do so. A total of 87.4% of convictions were passed against adults. This information is very important for the assessment of the performance and work of the State's Attorney's Office, because the courts are the only ones in concrete cases who are objective in the quality of our work. This percentage is extremely high and it is even in some part and greater than European standards, especially making sure that of these 12.6% of the negative decisions, half are reluctant where the state's attorney's office gave up for these or those reasons, and somewhere around 6% are acquittal judgments. The prison sentences take place at 17.1% and this is the last few years' continuation of a trend greater than the number of unconditional prison sentences. There was about 10.8% there in 2003, we have already reached 17.1% and that is about the number that has been present in the countries of European democracy in the last few years. In relation to younger perpetrators, attention is paid to their training and guidance and data on the return of minors and minors show that the vast majority of these cases are achieving the objectives of conducting the procedure. In relation to the structure of crime, they can also say that it has not changed compared to previous years but there is also no noticeable difference in performance compared to certain types of criminal offences. In a broader sense, the directorial authorities have been successful in detecting and reporting, and so have we, the state's attorney's office, in persecuting classical organised crime, such as drugs, human trafficking, fraud and the like. However, I believe that we must change the approach, but also the legal frameworks, as tools that will enable us in cases of new forms of organised crime, in which members of the criminal mile are involved in regular affairs or in better words, some of their activities have been transferred to legal business and in this business they serve classical methods of criminal mileage, intimidation, kidnapping, beating and murder, while in relation to the members of the authorities, I mean everything, and the state's attorney's office, courts, executive authority, etc., serve different forms of corruption and various pressures on which there are explicit data in part of the jump report. I think that in this way they send messages that are stronger and more successful than the state, which is not true and especially because of these recent events when there has been an important change in thinking about how to counter this organised crime and the synergy, legislative, executive and judicial authorities I think things are going significantly differently forward. The first steps in that direction are therefore already taken. I must also say that, in relation to the crimes of economic crime, the success of our state's attorney's office in persecution is not as it is in general with the rest of the general crime. The reasons for that exist on a number of levels, a number of reasons. It's one of the things that's been working on heavy, complicated cases whose trials and actions have been going on for a number of years, and that's why, there are objective difficulties in proving these crimes. In 2007, the courts made 217 convictions in relation to economic crimes, with 50.1% condemning them. If you remember that data 87%, then you can see that there is a difference of 30 and some percent success to the damage of hard economic activity. The success for these serious crimes is far below the overall success and, as is said, it is necessary to amend and certain legislation to adapt these acts to economic opportunities in the country. In view of the gravity and complexity of these cases, continued co-operation with police has been established because, for proper guidance, the necessary good and timely co-operation between the police and the state's attorney and other forms of regular authority has been given, and a major contribution to this cooperation has been made to the adopted protocol on police cooperation and the state's attorney's office. In connection with the success of persecution and otherwise perceptions, places and roles of the state's attorney's office in criminal proceedings, it may be necessary to point out once again that a false image of the place and role of the state's attorney in criminal proceedings is often created in public. According to this picture, not only is the lawyer responsible for the prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences, he is called not to file a criminal complaint even though a criminal complaint has been filed with the State's attorney, because he has no one to submit it and is very often referred to as a failure to prosecute if, after the indictment or the indictment has been filed, no verdict has been reached. In the entire criminal procedure, the state's attorney is only part of the chain, he's just a law enforcement body. The state's attorney directs the work of police and other state authorities is responsible for the decision regarding the application, and we can say that it is not successful in the proceedings if a large number of negative court decisions are but neither can it nor is it responsible for detecting the perpetrators of criminal offences and the duration of the proceedings outside the state's attorney's office. Data on success in the most serious criminal offences of economic crime show that material and procedural criminal law needs to be changed in this area in order to ensure rapid and effective criminal conduct. In addition, research into complex cases of economic crime and organised crime requires joint work by police and individual agencies and the Ministry of Finance under the supervision of the State's Attorney's Office. Without the active involvement of all these state bodies, we will neither be successful in detecting and persecuting this crime. You've been taking important steps lately. You have before you a second reading of the Code of Criminal Procedure which will, of course, be given if a firm, strong tool is adopted to combat such forms of crime. Work in 2007 marked the successful completion of several preliminary proceedings against members of organised groups. In particular, one item is important about the drug mafia, where 17 million euros have been taken away, or, excuse me, a better frozen 17 million euro which will be subject to judicial decisions in the course of the proceedings. The work on corruption crimes cases has also marked the successful completion of several pre-trial proceedings against persons highly positioned in state authorities and other bodies. The number of applications on the one hand has increased, investigations and charges in those cases provide grounds for arguing that we have begun to curb corruption at the middle and higher level. However, I must stress that the processing of corrupt crimes is an extremely difficult and complex procedure, as it is usually a matter of dealings carried out in 4 eyes. Success is achieved only if the person exposed to corruption reports the police or USKOK immediately after a bribe has been sought and offered because the subsequent proof of these crimes is almost impossible. Some well-known cases through operational actions have just begun after citizens' applications to the State's Attorney's office and then the use of special reconnaissance measures. Our experiences show that citizens will report corruption if they trust the authorities, either the police or the State's Attorney's office, if they are sure that the State's Attorney's office and the police will do anything to make sure that the corrupt person is exposed and processed. The report then provides detailed data on the work of state lawyers for youth, and in this area should be warned of a second year's increase in juvenile crime from now on in 8.9 which requires careful monitoring of the research of the causes of these movements, especially by estimating the increase of violent delicacies. It is premature to draw conclusions because oscillations in the criminality of this age group are constantly present. Something about the work of the civil departments. During 2007, a total of 167 thousand cases were held in the work of civil-government departments. Data show that by the third year in a row, the number of new cases in civil-government departments is reduced, which is good for the country itself. The trend of reducing litigation has continued. In 2007, a total of 7000 725 litigation cases were received in which the state or 8.52% less participated on the one hand. The total value of the litigation disputes we had in the law-based work was 11 and a half billion kuna, which is less than in 2006 which is also a very good indicator. The State Attorney's Office seeks to make settlements in all cases where possible and we appreciate that by making deals not only avoids unnecessary litigation but significantly reduces losses through the costs of proceedings, legal costs and so on and so on. The reduction in the number of new litigation cases did not, however, lead to a reduction in the total number of court cases because on the other hand, increased activity on the state property book, which is being worked intensively because we only had a year and a few days left to complete the book by 1.1.2010. I mean, I don't think so, but I know we'll be done with this job by then. One of the priority but most complex jobs not only of the State's Attorney's Office is the establishment of the immovable property of the Republic of Croatia and the recording of that part of the property, which has not been registered in the land books so far. So, in relation to other State Attorney's offices which are presented in the report, they may point out that we pay particular attention to the affairs of judicial reform and to those ways of work which reduces the number of cases in court. Deals, criminal orders, and so forth. While in connection with improvements in the work in the State's Attorney's Office, attention is paid to those measures that we seek to prevent the abuse of corruption in the State's Attorney's Office as well as to improve the work of the State's Attorney's Office. With this in mind, it is extremely important for us that we have started to introduce information technologies into the State Attorney's Office thanks to certain funds that we have received from Europe and beyond because without the connection and application of information technologies we will not be able to successfully implement all procedural provisions that are under way. Finally, I can stress the following. Achieved results in the work and achieved a degree of urgency enables state lawyers and their deputies to work better to prosecute perpetrators of criminal offences and protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. Our permanent goal is to confiscate from the perpetrators the property benefit acquired by criminal acts or in civil proceedings to protect the property and property interests of the Republic of Croatia. With constant monitoring of the work and supervision of the work of the state's attorneys, we have achieved satisfactory up-to-date in the work of the criminal departments. The total number of unsolved applications is significantly lower than the quarterly inflow. By rejecting criminal charges in all those cases where this is justified, the law prevents unnecessary conduct of proceedings while increasing the number of direct charges and requiring criminal orders affecting the length of the criminal proceedings. The fact that more than five-six convictions have been handed down suggests that the selection of criminal returns is justified and that the quality of the work of the State's Attorney's Office in criminal cases is satisfactory, particularly taking into account the fact that the results are almost negligible, the positive results of the damages in the taking over of criminal prosecutions. And another thing where the State's Attorney's Office has taken over in a certain way is that in 2007, 6 thousand and 705 criminal warrants were required and more than 5 thousand court decisions were issued without hearings on the basis of these criminal orders, which is very important by making sure that the courts totalled 28 thousand and 303 judgments in relation to persons. Therefore, look at this relationship and see how many of these judgments have been passed thanks to criminal orders where there has been no debate or court proceedings. The alternative way of resolving civil disputes must be a priority and more must be achieved in the next period, but that part of the work depends also on the resources of the budget that will be made available to us in order to conclude these settlements without court proceedings. Given the significantly different solutions in the position of the State Attorney's Office in the current criminal proceedings and the expected solutions in the new Criminal Procedure Act, the state's attorney's office must now change their way of working. The application of measures to reduce and speed up the conduct of the procedure and, in particular, joint work on cases complex with the aim of confiscation of the property benefit or protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia requires a different approach by all state lawyers and deputies today. In this regard, our special attention is focused on overseeing the work, selection and education of younger state lawyers and deputies who are expected to be particularly involved and to take the lead in the pre-trial process, which awaits us in organised crime and corruption cases as early as July 1st next year, if the Parliament of course adopts the laws ahead of you. The state's attorney's office in certain areas has great difficulty in employment, especially when it comes to officials. That's the number I was talking about earlier, so I'm not gonna say it again. From 2002 to the fifth, we had a decline in juvenile delinquency, and from the sixth and seventh increases of 11 and 9%, respectively. The up-to-dateness of civil administrative departments in litigation and administrative cases depends largely on the urgency of the conduct of individual state bodies and courts. The up-to-date nature of civil-government departments in work on other subjects such as giving legal opinions to certain contracts may be considered satisfactory. As far as the books are concerned, I've talked too much already, so I won't say it again. In order to achieve the above tasks in the field of protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia and the persecution of perpetrators of criminal offences, it is necessary, with quality work and supervision within the State's Attorney's Office, to provide adequate programmes with a view to creating databases that could make the work of the State's attorneys more significant improvements. Only with the adoption of modern methods of monitoring and supervision of work subjects with continuous training of state attorneys can not only be retained, but also further improve the work and effectiveness of the State's Attorney's Office. In this opening presentation, I tried only the most important items in our report mentioned. However, in my opinion at least a lot of things have been explained in detail, and I hope you could identify those essential elements. If not, I'm here to answer every question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20872	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Government officials don't want to do the same. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20873	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. So today we are talking about the work of one of the most important links in the chain of the institutions of the rule of law, a state attorney's office that has almost exclusive rights and obligations. Therefore, the duty to prosecute perpetrators of criminal offences and criminal acts in accordance with the law and to represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the legal procedure. All of this must be done completely independently of the Parliament, the Government, the President of the Republic, any other group or group or no god of lobbies in the Republic of Croatia. For such a task, political power, political will, the political authority has prepared conditions, tools in formal legal terms, human rights sense and financial sense so that the state's attorneyship, which today has 61 municipal lawyers, 20 county attorneys, office or BIAK, as we call it popularly to combat corruption, the State's Chief Attorney. It's all going on in 72 state attorneys, 504 deputy state attorneys, 99 advisors, 60 trainees. In other words, the work of a state attorney shall be carried out by 675 employees authorised in the State's Attorney's Office, 60 trainees and 687 employees. A total of 1422 workers in 83 organisational units or units. And according to the state's attorney, there were 89,000 almost criminal charges in the past year, an observed period. Therefore, the task of a state attorney is ex-legislative, under the law, to prosecute perpetrators of criminal offences independently and independently from both the Government and the Parliament and the President of the Republic under the law. The truth works, the State's Attorney's Office in its report statistically well justifys its work, and from that point of view we need to give recognition. However, the report does not trouble the appearance and appearance of the perpetrators of criminal offences or how certain crimes affect the sense of security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, characteristic works that create an impression, perception of security in the Republic of Croatia, nor how these acts affect social relations or the development or position of the Republic of Croatia in general in joining the European Union. What's the essence of a state's attorney's function? In order for the State Attorney's Office to have the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is the purpose of its function, it is necessary to create such conditions that it is certain that each perpetrator of a criminal offence or a large number or the largest number of perpetrators of criminal offences will be prosecuted, brought to justice. Now, from that point of view, I'd like to say a few words. These cases, which mark or create perceptions of the success of the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences, also create an assessment of the institution's success, unfortunately, despite the fact that statistics suggest that the State's Attorney General has done a very good job with the State's Attorney General. In the past, some of the cases have been rounding up to me or not, so we haven't had the end of these cases or these affairs or these events with the state's attorney manifesting in a way that I have nothing to do or I have nothing to do with it, so I'm going to file a criminal report, no matter what the state's attorney read from the papers, I've read the statement that crime or organised crime is infiltrated, I apologize if it's not exactly quoting both in the judiciary and in political power. Such a statement cannot satisfy citizens because it is precisely the institution that is authorized by political power, by the political authority to prosecute and such cases end in court. Namely, it's about things like "Brodosplit." After prolonged pressure from the Croatian public and silence from the State's Attorney's Office, the State's Attorney's Office reacts to an outside incentive or at least such an impression is created in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we can't be satisfied with that. If we add that under the pressure of the public, the state attorney's office has filed criminal charges against the former administration of Brodosplit for loss in the company, at the same time today we have the information that several billion kunas of losses in Croatian shipbuilding are not responding to that phenomenon, or there were outside influences at that time, or it is now unnecessary to file a criminal application. When it comes to "Sun-Hvar" citizens of Croatia want to know what happened to the privatisation contract "Sun-Hvar". Is that contract based on law and on what? If it is in the Privatisation and Conversion Act, then the competent state body should be manifested and it should be said that it is in accordance with the Law on the Conversion of Privatisation. If not, and the public thinks that something has been done that is not in accordance with the law, who should be manifest to the public and say either we will pursue or there is no reason for persecution. If it's about "Liburnia Riviera" hotels, whether the State's Attorney's Office as a body is competent to assess the legal interests of such businesses gave the government prior consent to conclude a settlement agreement with that fund or not. If so, how could the government, after the contract was signed, unilaterally terminate the contract without the State's attorney's opinion? If this is about the "Maestro" action, is it possible to complete the action, and that the people, the citizens of this country, and also the parliamentary deputies, are not told by the State Attorney's Office why they believe that members of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund, who have been given the task of controlling the work of the Privatisation Fund, have not at least been unwittingly doing business, let's not qualify that thing, have unwittingly done the work they have gained with confidence in both this Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Is it possible that the Supervisory Board in Brodosplit or the chairman of the Supervisory Board will not be asked how it has performed its post as chairman of the Supervisory Board if they are subsequently accused or accused or charged for members of the Supervisory Board. All of this should be assessed, evaluated, taken responsibility and brought before citizens by the competent authority. Talking about action in the fight against crime can be statistically successful, but these cases create perceptions that make the Republic of Croatia's path to the European Union worse, and in these cases, the European Commission also makes objections to us. It is also known to the State's Attorney's Office that corruption doesn't happen to people who don't decide at all. Corruption is happening, or people are corrupting those who decide something, so it is also corrupting a surgeon who can decide when to operate, but it is logical, and again the European Commission is complaining that corruption is in our political sphere when it comes to public procurement. Who decides on public procurement? Well, they don't decide citizens on the street, they decide politically important people. Such assessments should be taken care of when considering the work of public lawyers as a whole. In fact, there is still perception among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we must fight it in such a way as not to close affairs over time, but by reacting to them in real political time. It is still a perception that it is more important to be in good relations with political authority than to be smart, capable and take entrepreneurial action or invest in something. Such a situation does not contribute to the picture of Croatia. I think it would be very important for the State's Attorney General and the Attorney General to point out whether there's a problem with the legal definition of the state's attorney's office? I was still on the Justice Committee today, so we had some discussion about whether the independence of certain deputy state attorneys is satisfactory and whether they are responding to the public or, instead, the public's attorney is in charge? Is the State Attorney's Office really a state or has a function of protecting the social values of citizens of the Republic of Croatia? If it's state, then it's something else, then I'd give him a defined role if he were in the administrative structure of the state. However, it has a completely independent position by law. I'm not sure that's how it works. However, the law and citizens expect full independence, independent action by the State's attorney and his deputies. So, when it comes to the criminal work of the State's Attorney's Office, I must say that it has long been said that political will and political power create conditions for the rule of law. But only the institutions of the rule of law such as the State's Attorney's Office can limit that political power. From these examples that I have cited as characteristic of the past period in the Republic of Croatia, it could be concluded that it is very difficult to expect that in this position this institution is most important in the chain of the institutions of the rule of law, it can limit political power and political will. For such a feeling we change the laws and very precisely define the role and place of the State's Attorney's Office. I'd like to say more about civil matters. A very good state lawyer notes the importance of enrolling the ownership of the Republic of Croatia in the land book and says very optimisticly that the procedure will be completed while the principle applies, that is, while the principle of trust in land books has been lifted. I would advocate if possible as soon as possible, at least in a particular area of the Earth-Court to restore the principle of trust in land books because it is definitely a major problem for foreign investment in that area. I can see the light flashing, but another sentence. So the state's attorney and the State's Attorney's Office should be a place, an institution of broad trust for every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. The institution should be deaf and blind to all political wishes and political needs of any political option, whether it is in position or in opposition. We in the SDP are only interested in such a position as the state's attorney and for such a position we will give him full support, but he must also take steps to win that position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20874	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20875	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin by saying that we will support this State's Attorney's Office report and because we see a positive trend in its work, but also because this material is quite broad and detailed independently of what the amount of data and material does not have to be a full guarantee. What I'm about to say here could somehow come to mind under that comment on the State's Attorney's report, that is, about what's inside, because no matter what autonomy is, it's about a problem that's been raised wider and there's a wider responsibility. A few things I want to say, I'll say in the next row. First, I agree that, however, it cannot be challenged. The state's attorney's office is independent in its work both from the point of view of responsibility and from the point of view of self-respect. However, there is one thing in which the State's Attorney's Office depends on the overall activities in society, and in relation to what is the responsibility of the State's Attorney's Office. That's where I'm going to say the next thing. Depending on the joint activity that's measured, I'm going to list some things here, you can of course say a lot more, but it depends on a few things. First, with the determination of police not to compromise. Second, with the determination of inspections that control the work of certain activities. Third, the legal conduct of all bodies of the administration and those of the vertical state administration and those of local self-government. Fourthly, by publicly suppressing various groups and lobbys that promote their interest, while waving their separate rights and their merits. Well, of course, all that through your special interest. The following, public and unequivocal messages, political and media that respect for the law must be considered a top criterion. Next, by consistent persecution of offenders by curbing all forms of corruption. I listed this because I think it's an important network where we now have quite a hole and it's not so that it doesn't miss a lot of things that shouldn't go through. And now, of course, the question remains whether in society as a whole we give the State's Attorney's office sufficient and undivided support or to say otherwise, it's not about supporting the State's Attorney's office now. Whether or not we give consistent and undivided support to this system's functioning. The other thing I want to say here, and it's about what we're talking about, it's a matter of fear of the rich and powerful because it seems to me to be a special problem. There are environments and independent of it about the number of inhabitants, and regardless of what one moment has come out in public, in which I am boasting and powerful, I am not laughing at anything or anything against them. Of course, it's always a set of some background circumstances. Furthermore, there are environments where various groups and lobbies, just before I said calling for some merits, want to manage society in favour of their interests and their taste, not their taste of legality. And in the minds of such people, and it's not just about those who have a lot of money, between national and national interest and respect for lawfulness, it's not about equality. There are environments in which the authorities of the state administration that carry out inspection tasks tolerate the boasts of "reputable", "protected", "ours" because they are afraid or bribed. And there are local leaderships who want to affect "their condition", "their relations", "protect their people". It's always about an exemption from the law, I'll exempt it from what the law says. And there are connections in the police of these powerful and boastful "based on friendship", "sponsorship", and then there can and will be facts and events and fake and hairstyled. It's just this whole rock I counted. It's just some kind of non-attack pact. The third thing I need to say here is this, there's, unfortunately, there's something I could call unsettled areas, unsettled or due to the consequences of war or the consequences of some other circumstances, that I don't explain right now. The characteristics of such areas are the first lack of economic stability and the absence of development expenditure. Furthermore, there is a lack of social or socio-pedagogical support in which the younger population is exposed to all sorts of vices and there is a big question which will result in not knowing how many years. And in such environments, they are stronger or more pronounced in different forms of manipulation and sometimes they push the thesis or tell stories that life is possible on social aid, on donations, on folk cuisines, and in fact it can only lead to a breakdown. And the fourth thing I want to point out in this section is that my predecessor here said in this report a little more analytical approach. I agree with that because of the next thing. My colleague Leco said I wish there were more problems in there, more of that kind of display in things that are important. I know that the state's attorney's office is not in charge of making political analysis, but in the work of the state's attorney's office, it can be analytically pointed to a social problem that would bring this to light in a better way, first of all, because of what's also mentioned here. In this whole context, which I am convinced that there is not enough social support to prosecute crime, which means there is not enough social support to be a transport to the state's attorney's office. I find it hard to believe that the state's attorney's office can't say we have a problem with that, and I don't know which segment. To point out, therefore, the problem facing the state's attorney's office in its own work. I think it's kind of missing here, because if we set ourselves up we've done ours and maybe the best way, and the picture doesn't satisfy the picture in total, then we haven't done the job. The State's Attorney's Office of the Sea and not only the State's Attorney's Office can and must put its finger on the brakes and obstacles that disturb it. The other thing I want to say here is, it's kind of a direct matter of the work of the state's attorney's office. First of all, this sense of events, I don't know if it's a good term, but that's how I used it. The State Attorney's Office in Protection, in the section of representation of the Republic of Croatia, receives a number of proposals, for example, I speak for the settlement for compensation of damages e.g. I may be misinformed, but it seems to me that such demands are enough and that the state's attorney generally assuming that not knowing what they're going to do with it, it shows in a way that it's being rejected in a small number, that it's being kept away in the largest number, and that acceptance is coming... it's mostly not coming. I'm not getting into what's the argument and whether the state's attorney's right, but it seems to me that this problem, proposals for a settlement for damage, etc., deserves some kind of mini-observation because it's a social problem. We shouldn't even go to the state's attorney's office to put ourselves in this matter on the record, so let's just say we'll keep it quiet and it'll be a while, so that one can go to court, so that's it. I'm referring to this as a social problem that I don't know if it's multiple, but it produces social relations between people around us. And that's why it deserves a little comment. We're here now, I'll be free to say, and that, we've had court proceedings where people had to pay a litigation to the state for which all the serious people who analyzed it conclude that there is this huge grain of injustice. I wish people from the state's attorney's office had said before, there's something here that's not good. Of course, if the state's attorney's office hadn't been obliged to send that message, it would have been very desirable if such a message had been spoken, because now it's back in a way that it has to be dealt with with with with with without knowing what levels. And the last thing I'm going to say is this is a matter of reform. It is often mentioned here, and today the reform of the judiciary or the reform of the entire system is mentioned. It is not right if, in terms of reform, we mean reform of the judiciary, reform of the state's attorney's office, reform of what I don't know, and I don't know what it is. This is about reforming the overall social atmosphere and we have to deal with it together, and if we dig into an independent position, I'm in charge of it, I'm independent of it, don't ask me about it, then reform in general won't be anything. Of course this last one doesn't go to the State's Attorney's office, at least not just, but I had a need to say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20876	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvecan's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20877	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Chief State Attorney, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the report on the work of the State Attorney's Offices in 2007 which the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will immediately say supports and fully accepts. First of all, because the results of the work of the state's attorneys are getting better from year to year. The report itself is content and methodologically correct, it is transparent so that certain trends and results of work can be monitored very precisely. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia defines the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the law. The Law on the State Attorney's Office in Article 4 also requires the Croatian State Attorney's Office to submit at least once a year a report on work in the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The report on the work of the State Lawyers in 2007 in accordance with the Law on the State Attorney's Office shall contain data on the work of the State's attorneys in the field of criminal, civil and administrative law, the legal issue of certain areas and the review of the organisations and the status of the staff, and a proposal to improve work. At first, I am holding an important emphasis on the enviable level of urgency in the work of the Criminal Department of State Attorneys where the total number of unsolved applications is significantly less than one-third of the quarterly inflow of new applications. So the quarterly inflow of new applications is 13 thousand 33 while the number of applications remaining in the paper is 10 thousand 520 as reported in the report. The result of this update stems from a system of constant surveillance and monitoring of the work of municipal, county state lawyers by the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia, primarily in complex cases especially in those where applications have not been resolved in a long time. In order to maintain the up-to-dateness of monitoring improvements, it is necessary to connect state attorneys and create a database of work on specific subjects. This will require additional investment in information communication technology, equipment and programmes, without which it is almost impossible today to implement effective control of corruption and organised crime, terrorism, economic crime, and protection of the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As for the movement of crime and the work on criminal cases, the report said that 88,000 875 new applications were received in 2007, against known and unknown perpetrators of criminal offences, which is 4% less than in 2006. There were 64,000 721 criminal charges against known perpetrators, and the state's attorneys resolved 52,000 984 applications. The very structure of crime is no different from the previous years. The most numerous crimes against property are 56%, drug abuse 7%, and human and citizen rights 6%. The courts made first-degree decisions compared to 28,000 303 people, which is more than 843 convictions in 2006. Of the judgments delivered, 87.4% is condemned and 6.9% liberating, which is certainly a good result. A more stringent policy of punishment is also visible, so in the overall criminal sanctions structure, prisons take part in 17.1%), which is an increase by 1% compared to 2006. In view of the currentity of the subject, I consider it necessary to point out this opportunity to the results of the work of the State Attorney's Office and other judicial authorities on corruption and organised crime. Although the results of the work in these cases are when measured by the number of convictions compared to the total number of criminal cases below the average, the result is, in our opinion, good for the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club for the reasons that, compared to the previous years, because this is what the attorney general said about secret criminal acts taking place in the area of illegal activities and which therefore require the application of special reconnaissance and other measures so as to enable the perpetrator's criminal programme to be taken. So, when we talk about the results relating to corruption and organised crime, for the sake of comparison, I will indicate that 455 investigative requests were filed in 2007, 323 charges were filed, 210 convictions were brought, of which 193 condemning, 9 liberating and 8 refuting verdicts. In 2006, for example, 269 investigative requests were filed, 322 indictments were filed, and 156 convictions were made, of which 151 convicted, 4 liberating and one refutable. For example, only 261 investigative applications were filed in 2002, 145 indictments were filed and only 23 convictions of 20 convictions and 3 acquittal convictions were brought. Data for 2002 or 2003 when a very small number of corrupt crimes and criminal offences of organised crime have been processed, does not mean that fewer of these years have actually been committed. I'm sure there were more. Today, however, the competent state authorities are much more qualified for their more successful processing. So, the summed data from the establishment of USKOK in 2002 until 7 October of this year, so until when we have the data, they say a thousand 648 indictments have been filed. Of these, 692 convictions were made, of which 636 were condemned. The success of the state's attorneyship in these cases, therefore corruption cases, organised crime is 91.91% which is certainly an enviable result, even when compared to countries in the environment or countries of the European Union. Therefore, significant progress has been seen in countering this type of crime, although there is a public perception of the number of their initiations and the number of cases prosecuted and ruled in obvious discrepancies with the real situation. Of course it's not enough and it needs to be done more. There is no doubt that there is political will that confirms the latest measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministries in this area to combat corruption and organised crime. I have important information about the number of items that are under way. In fact, USKOK has filed charges against a total of 32 people in which cases have not been tried by law enforcement. Of this, 209 persons and 822 persons for organised crime have been charged with corrupt crimes. There is certainly a need for greater efficiency of the judicial authority, which is expected to increase efficiency, faster treatment and a significantly greater number of judgments. Also under way is the conduct of a USKOK investigation against 409 people, of whom for corrupting crimes against 148 people and against 261 persons for crimes in organised crime. In this report on the results of the work on civil and administrative matters, it is said that during 2007 there were 167 thousand 484 items of which 101 thousand 149 new were received in 2007 while 66 thousand 335 items were transferred from earlier years. The data in the report show that there is a reduction in backlogs from year to year, indicating an increase in the urgency of courts and administrative bodies, as well as a decline in the inflow of new cases, which are 6.54% relative to 2006. Here I would like to especially highlight the litigatory objects that also have a trend of decline. In 2007, 7 thousand 725 or 8.52% were received compared to 2006 and even 38.5% were received compared to 2005. Most of the work disputes in which the Republic of Croatia has been sued and the real legal consequences of the land-based property books. For example, in disputes in which the State Attorney's Office brought suit on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, 2,000 60 first-degree decisions were taken. Of them 57.7% were obtained, 7.9% lost and the rest was settled by settlement, withdrawal of lawsuit or merger of proceedings. In these disputes, we can conclude that success is good. However, in disputes in which the Republic of Croatia is a prosecutor, success is much worse. Of the 5 thousand 676 dispute resolutions, all one thousand 529 or 26.9% were obtained and 37.4% of disputes were lost. This is about obligations to prosecutors created for failure to comply with the legal obligation mentioned above, labour disputes, damages, housing and other real legal disputes. If we look at it through the financial amounts also shown in this report, the total value of these litigation disputes was around $11.5 billion, of which the value of disputes in cases in which the Republic of Croatia was a prosecutor was about 3 billion and the value of the disputes in which the defendant was 8.5 billion kuna. The State Attorney's Office notes in the report that it is certainly necessary to agree that the conduct of disputes when the state is longer due to the failure to fulfil the legal obligation is bad because the disputes are naturally lost and additional costs to be paid by the State are created. In such cases, it is logical to go into settlements or other ways of resolving disputes, but if no funds are provided for the payment of settlements within the agreed deadline, the prosecutor shall initiate enforcement procedures which re-emerge additional costs, interest costs, lawyers, etc. It is an additional burden for courts, a state attorney's office which is also paid from the state budget and I think that such practice is absolutely unacceptable. And finally, on this occasion, I want to look back on the new role, or the new procedural position of the state's attorney. According to the proposal for a new Criminal Procedure Act, which passed the first reading of a state lawyer in the parliamentary procedure, with the prosecution of the perpetrator of criminal offences being prosecuted under official duty, which is a fundamental right and the main duty of a state attorney there is a subject leading the investigation. So, instead of a court case, there's a prosecutor's investigation. The new role will increase the responsibility of state lawyers to the very outcome of the criminal proceedings. It will also require specialist training and continuous education of state lawyers and other state attorneys. It will be necessary to employ an additional number of state attorneys who will take over the work in the most complex cases, which will not be easy given the current problems highlighted in this report when hiring state attorneys and trainees. It will also need to allocate considerable resources to ensure additional business space, its equipment, the purchase of new but also the replacement of existing already outdated IT and other technical equipment. Finally, I will repeat once again that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will accept the report on the work of state lawyers in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20878	Thank you. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20879	Honored Mr. Vice President, esteemed State Attorney, esteemed Mr. MPs. As with the Ministry of the Interior's report, the central issue and this report is whether Croatia is a safe country. So, this report turns out we're dropping the number of charges for the most serious form of crime. There is approximately a statistical error always 0%, and then it would be possible to conclude by reading this report for 2007 that Croatia belongs to the order of the safest countries in Europe, but this year 2008 after the murder of Pukanic, Miss Hodak, etc., the shift in the government that followed in such a single claim all of this denied us. Procedure for detecting criminal offences, i.e. The perpetrators, according to this report is also bigger than in Western Europe, but the fact is that a whole series of new crimes in the meantime appeared which we simply didn't know 15 or 20 years ago. The fact is, too, that we have more and more insolent and insolent procedures. The fact is that we have a well-organized underworld, which will say that Croatia is not deprived of organised crime, which is precisely confirming these events around Pukanic and Miss Hodak. The fact is also that the mafia, a good part of the money, is investing in something that I can call a clean business in construction and that's how it tries to launder money. Just go to the river, see the new arena in Zagreb and those buildings that do nothing in the immediate vicinity. The fact is also that the police, that the state's attorney's office, whatever we're saying in this report, are not effective enough. The question also arises whether in this country every better-placed criminal has a police officer, whether he has his own attorney, whether he has his own judge, his own journalist, his prison guard, whether he has anyone from politics. Power is certainly not in opposition, power in this country is primarily in executive power, in the media and clearly in large capital. It wouldn't be any problem for me if the state's attorney had two, three times as much pay as the prime minister or president of the state, but also let our state's attorneys answer for the failures. Here's a recent ruling from the Supreme Court in the case of Herak. I am truly glad that Herak is 100% rehabilitated with this verdict. However, the question arises as to who will suffer the consequences of the ease of pronunciation and the indictment and detention of, say, Herak and the verdict, including the detention of Herak in custody for 16 or 17 months. Who will be responsible for this humiliation that was inflicted upon him? Who'll be responsible for the personal drama he's going through, his late mother, his brother, that his family fell apart and that I don't count on it anymore. I claim that man was a victim of a judicial conspiracy in 2000. On the one hand, the ambition of the Istrian State Attorney's Office to keep these people from their status, but also the victim of the government in a change that literally sacrificed him after the loss of power. I claim that then, as I would say, the HDZ team then planted Herak at the president's court that the 3rd January government would not deal with those who should deal with tycoons, war criminals, conversion, organised crime, etc., etc. Why do I claim that they did it at the President's court? Because I had one chance to talk to Prime Minister Matesh who literally told me that he had until the last cabinet session, so as Prime Minister, he didn't know that a minister would be arrested. The fact is also that the opening of Croatia towards the west introduces more and more sophisticated crime into these areas. The fact is also that the recent war on these premises has brought out one specific type of crime where everything has not stopped on war crimes alone, which is probably the worst of all forms of crime. It's that Croatia, because of, I don't know, weapons procurement, has, say, produced a specific form of crime that some people know more about, and I might be interested in the Croatian public at this point. secret accounts to which the money from the sale of apartments was poured through the budget to that of the Croatian diaspora. The specificity of Croatia when it comes to such reports is something else. It is a conversion, it is a privatisation, but on the other hand, Croatia is really very sad about this conversion, privatisation. There's nothing we can see here, today these people become pillars of society, and it's not enough for these people just to have money, monopolies, to be guarded by people who act as executives, it's not enough to be given state jobs, to give them tourist land, now these same people understandably want and power. To start at the local level, and then they'll probably want real state power. If that happens, then we poor mother. In these 18 years, anyway, I dare say, everything in this country was subordinated to them, they got in Croatia because they were pillars of society, and the next day, even though they can yell we have Croatia, they will be able to speak Croatia, it's us. It's tragic, it's true, it's... In one word, war crime, plus this conversion, plus privatisation, is simply the mother of all corruption. And today, as I said, they no longer want, who only took part in it, they also want power today. For example. For whom the tycoons voted back in the '90s. Of course, they voted for those who created them. Who were they funding? The ones who created them. Whoever put them in charge is also known. But about that later. The public, we see deals in this country with parties, and as I said yesterday when there was a report on the revision of political parties in the Republic of Croatia, so we... in front of all of these or some of the media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example. Croatian radio television. All parties in this country have shown budget revenues of 186 million kuna, which is 8 times more than just annual revenues of Croatian Radio Television. That I'm not talking about some other media or that I'm not talking about some other company. Clearly, that question must not be opened. It's just not to be chosen. What's also interesting in this report is that individuals argue with the state in 22 thousand 524 items for 11 billion 493 million kunas. Brother, Croatia will surely lose at least 50% of these disputes, which will say that somewhere because of the state's mistreatment, somewhere because of government officials, they will need to find an amount of 5.6 billion kuna in the state budget one day. In this year's budget, there's clearly no money, and it's still going to be in that next year. But it is certain that in those about 50% of the cases Croatia will lose its, this dispute. Who's to blame for this? Should those who have concluded a harmful agreement on the privatisation of Slavonska Banka be held accountable? Should those who have concluded harmful contracts with Astaldia answer? It's EUR 100 million, that's 700 and something million. The Croatian lottery case is now opening. The rest requires a billion kuna in the case of Liburnia. Looks like he's gonna get that slow, too. General Royce is now applying for damages worth 3 billion kuna. At the end of this year, it will probably be extended to 4.6 billion kunas of shipbuilding commitments for Brodosplit, one billion kuna, for third May, 400 million kuna, for Brodotrogir 800 million kuna, for Queen 450 million kuna, for pulsary Oil 0 Kuna. Who's gonna answer for these amounts? Will these people who have all been well-infused since they were presidents of the Croatian Shipyards' administration bear certain consequences because of this direct damage, which is caused by the state and even greater those who are going to lose their jobs in those shipyards the next day. And nothing seems to happen to anyone, absolutely nothing, and no one in this country will answer for this kind of damage. And if we're going to make this 4.6 billion kuna this year next year, it's going to be 8 billion kuna. What I'm also interested in are those diamonds, not so many where they are today, but is it true that as Mr Ferdinand Jukic said, Cardinal Kuharic handed them to the late President Tudjman? Does Croatia have if this is true, maybe Jukic is lying, I don't know, a moral obligation then depriving that Jewish community in Croatia because it's hard to believe that their owners or their heirs are alive. If that's the case, let's start building a synagogue in Zagreb, but I'm not going to talk about it now. What is it like looking at the damage that we like to call this figuratively due to terrorist acts or because of the burning of the "Storm"? So it's about buildings, Croatian property owned by a clear citizen of Serbian nationality. To be tolerated is something for every conviction. Just as it is now for these genocide lawsuits, I, unlike some, think that what happened in Vukovar, Srebrenica, it was genocide but if the BIH failed in the Srebrenica case, Croatia would hardly succeed in its claim and perhaps you should consider giving up both states. Let's not forget clearly about the past but let's start building this, the future, not forgetting what's been going on here. It is interesting to enroll maritime goods on the side of the 83rd report. For me, I'm most interested in the fate of the Oilman. Looks like the government will privatize him. The previously clear need to resolve the fate of the maritime goods that the oil farmers have recorded in their name in the '60s and I ask a clear question what if this privatisation leads to the fact that the only liquid Croatian shipyard becomes in trouble after all? Is that why someone's gonna answer? Secondly, if only there was something about economic crime, we could see the number of reports falling, the number of cases was growing, but would someone in the State's Attorney's Office be responding? I absolutely welcome the Maestro case that has been stopped, any disposing with certain properties and companies that cause the state to suffer enormous damage. Will someone in this country be answering, as I read today, one titled defender from Sibenik says, "The President of the Republic Unwanted in Sibenik." So who can say that? Or, "We're going to bring down Arena." All right, come on, that's bullshit. It doesn't have to be too much of a reference. Let's just say this suspension in our stadiums, according to Thompson's concerts: "Kill, kill a Serb! Home ready! Let's go, let's go Ustasha!" Who in this country is going to stop this new patriotism once again? As regards real estate distribution, for example about Pula or Pula, the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Pula launched several procedures to establish property-legal relations in military zones that were otherwise registered to the city. Otherwise just to say that these military properties in the city of Pula are somewhere around 19 million square meters or every seventh square is registered to a state or army and so on. So for the end of Croatia according to this report is a relatively safe country but these latest events deny us. What I resent about the State's Attorney's Office, I'm sorry, is that many cases are a spectacle. It is only after the work done, for example, that the case of Herak is not normal for so many large objects to end only in custody. It's not normal for detention to become a synonym for prison, to hold someone there for 15, 20 months, because that's what's being questioned and someone's human rights and not to add up. However, regardless of how IDS will vote for this report but we needed to point out some of these cases that we believe can also help the work of the state attorney himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20880	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20881	Mr. President, I would have corrected an incorrect assumption. Mr Cain said he should withdraw the lawsuits both Serbia and Croatia. We're equating the victim and the aggressor here. There are no dead in Belgrade, there are over 3,000 people in Smederev, Novi Sad and similar deaths in the town of Vukovar. So, Mr. Caine, I wonder if you live in the Republic of Serbia or in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20882	Thank you very much. 10 and 58, it's time to report a ten-minute hearing. [[The intruders don't understand.]] An individual debate. What kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Cain?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20883	So because Mr. MP Mlinarić is correcting something What didn't I say? [[/Intruder: You can't, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following [[Intruder: That's one comment.]] Yeah, but I'm just imputing something I didn't say [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I said on my own... [[Intruder: You can't speak]] In the case of Srebrenica, I doubt it'll be in this second one. [[I don't understand, speakers speak out loud]] [[Intruder: You can't talk, you didn't get the word, it's not about the injury]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20884	And what is it? What kind of parliamentary violence is this?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20885	It's democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20886	It's not democracy, it's not gonna be what it is, anarchy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20887	It is the elemental form of parliamentaryism that I have the right to say what I mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20888	This isn't an anarchic parliament. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20889	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. To begin with, I must note that in the past five years when the Parliament is discussing the report on the work of the state's attorney's office, it is also a representative of the government. I don't know if I should commend that fact as good or be concerned. But perhaps after she has shown some of the things I'm going to do, she'll know the reasons for the government's presence when it comes to the state's attorney's office. I will not comment on the data presented in the report because they are well statisticalally orderly and reveal a lot to us, speak and direct, but in their debate would refer to three points of conclusion given by the State's attorney in their report, which I believe should have great attention in this House, but also in the Government, because they refer to something that follows us or that we should be concerned about. In point 5 of these conclusions, the state's attorney warns of the following. Therefore, the State Attorney's Office draws particular attention to the coordination of the work of other state bodies before criminal proceedings and to the conduct of reconnaissances. Joint work and coordination of police and other bodies involved in the detection and reporting of criminal offences is a priority in the work of the State's Attorney's Office. I think this is very important, because I probably did, and I was sure that I was thinking about cooperation when he said other bodies besides the police, for example, with customs, so cooperation with the tax administration, so co-operation with secret services, and it is true that this co-operation of state attorneys with these other bodies that are not primarily for the detection of criminal offences, but their co-operation with the State's Attorney's Office, and especially with the USKOK, can be of great influence and crucial in proving the existence of criminal acts in corruption of economic crime and organised crime. I hope that I will not reveal a great secret and say that several months ago there are agreements between the State Attorney's Office, the Ministry, customs, the finance of customs and the Tax Administration that will allow far more quality cooperation than it has been with a warning or a call to any form of obstruction and cooperation in these bodies for this Parliament should know whether through the State's Attorney's report. And I wonder if it wouldn't be good to say in the first three, at one of the sessions in the first quarter of next year we're only discussing this topic of cooperation between other bodies with the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK and the other bodies responsible for detecting or proving the existence of criminal offences. Namely, organized crime is called organised crime, and it cooperates extremely well that within the Republic of Croatia, different organised groups or so beyond the borders because they do not know the borders of the state, the nation, or religion, or anything else, and they do not need legislative frameworks to be successful, i.e. cooperation only, successful co-operation of the State's Attorney's Office with other bodies that may be of benefit to that house. The second point of the conclusion that I want to look at is point 7 where it is found that the State Attorney's Office has enormous problems in filling empty spaces in particular of officials. So now we get a warning that the State's Attorney's office has a problem with the staff. Why? I guess not because there are ideal terms and high wages. Because being a state lawyer or a county or municipal state lawyer in Croatia is appreciated. If we are now warned that there is a problem filling these important places I believe that the government has prepared an answer and will offer a solution to how this problem is solved. Yesterday we discussed a personal data protection agency and came to the realization that 26 people were employed there. Do you know how many people work at the BOOK? 18 officials who are jumpers and 20 administrative staff. 38 people are employed in the USCOC. We have a 26 at the Personal Data Protection Agency. In Croatia, public opinion has been raised that at least 500 people have been employed in the USKOK, and only 38 and all of them are targeted critics when it comes to the part of the job heading towards UskoK. So, according to 18 people who are employed to deal with organised crime, and the State's Attorney's Office is now warning you that there is a serious, major problem in obtaining particularly professional people in the entire system of state's attorneys. Are we going to offer for these occupations, these jobs to these people more wages? To remove the reasons why this problem exists or only year after year will we realize that this problem exists, seek greater efficiency, faster reaction, express our dissatisfaction that organised crime, including the mafia, strengthens in Croatia. I want to believe that the government has studied these conclusions well, and that is why the government's representative is here to transfer to the government's session that we need to do something urgent. Because this is a portfolio, this is a body of exceptional importance in the Republic of Croatia and it is not enough to establish or refer to statistics if we do not listen to what they are warning us about. And the third thing that is extremely important is that point 13 states: “The data of success in the most serious crimes of economic crime show that it is necessary to change both material and procedural criminal law in this area, the procedural right in order to ensure both swift and effective criminal proceedings. This warning to the State's Attorney's Office doesn't give us the first time. I also heard from the President of the Supreme Court at another session of the same two warnings. He stated that in a year, 107 judges went from justice to justice, 107 people went somewhere else. I hope I remembered the number well. And they warned that in this part of the legislation that regulates economic crime we have norms or solutions 20 or more years old. Now Mr. Bajic Parliament warns that in that part of the economy we must do something urgent and change if we continue to ask them for efficiency in detecting, processing and condemning criminal offences in the area of economic crime. I repeat not the first time. What have we done as Parliament so far? We've voted in favour of the state's attorney's report, the state's attorney's office. I would like to believe that in addition to that dry conclusion by the Government that there is no objection to this report, there is perhaps a promise that these changes in the legislation that the state's attorney once again warns of will come to the Parliament by an urgent procedure and that we will change and adopt these laws and allow those in charge of detecting the acts of economic crime and their processing and judgment to do what we have chosen and appointed. Otherwise, Mr. Bajic, I suggest you leave this thing out of the report next year. You're going to be a little boring, you're warning us for years, no one's doing anything and we're finding out, you know, we still have legislative solutions from the former system and the former state, so we can't be effective. It's as if someone deliberately obstructs that part of the change in legislation so that, as a result of such laws, the State's attorney and the courts can't be more effective. I really think this is the last warning, that this is the last time you warn the Croatian Parliament of these three significant, in my opinion and in my opinion significant problems. If that's not enough this time, don't bother. Obviously, you're not being listened to and taken seriously. Take the report to the conclusion that you're working, if you were alive, 500 and some people to do something, so if anyone had to ask, let them ask you, it would be a much simpler debate right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20890	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20891	Well, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who said that the government's opinion was given on this report briefly and dryly. I have the government's opinion in my hand. It is exhaustingly on 4 typed pages where the Government on all those segments covered by the report itself was manifested in a very clear and quality way. And not just that. The part that the esteemed representative commented as a non-reaction of the government or parliament is absolutely not standing. Well, he's just in the parliamentary procedure and he's been through his first reading, so the new law, the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will absolutely in a better way define the positions of the State's Attorney's office, and therefore all this trouble, will agree that the State's Attorney's Office is doing its job even more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20892	Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20893	Comrade Lesar, you have well apostrophe of the issue and the importance of economic incrimination, and you have well noticed that this year the report on the work of the state's attorney's office states such an observation. However, it seems that we here and in the Assembly are not well heard or listened because the SDP Club proposed to the Croatian Assembly in 2004 to amend the Penal Code and modernise economic incrimination. You have also voted for it and I hope you will do so if such changes do not occur by the government when the SDP renews it. Let me also point out in 2006, understanding the importance of this problem and considering it as a cruel anti-corruption act, not receiving and giving bribes, but economic incrimination. It's the source of its evil. And in 2006, we proposed precisely on this trail of amendment to the Penal Code. You, too, supported us. We will not give up on this because we believe that the real fight against crime at all, and there is no organised crime and corruption in itself without this modern economic incrimination. We have socialist incriminations, and that's what our experts say, and that's what the practitioners say. And let me also point out, when we proposed these laws, the government said that everything was fine with these incriminations, we see that it wasn't, and once it was said in that original request since 2004, then we were told that these works had to be observed more studioically, that there was no hurry. At that time, we hurried by cloning, believing it to be a very dangerous crime, and I guess here it is waiting for the last wave of obsoletes to cover such crimes that have disgraced and traumatized the entire Croatian people and Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20894	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20895	Thank you very much. My colleague Ingrid, what you have stated is an attempt to correct these laws, but you know as well as I do that in this House it is not important what is proposed, but it is important who is proposing, and if it is not the Government's proposal, normally that no argument can be adopted in this House, especially such important matter, but not only the Penal Code, but also the Law on Criminal Procedure, the arguments that we had in our first reading was no argument because the debate once again indicated that it was not satisfactory in its proposal, and if it comes to another reading, we will have a new and amended Penal Code with old problems. But I want to believe that the state's attorney meant not only the Penal Code, but also the Code of Criminal Procedure to be surrounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20896	Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go. He's pulling. Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20897	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. As one society fights crime, the most important thing is to kill what the ruling people think about it. And when, therefore, they propose amendments to the basic laws, both criminal proceedings and the Penal Code, we have both today and what we are discussing, so this report on the work of the state's attorneys. It's obvious to kill the success of our country, our society in the fight against the most dangerous kind of behavior, which is criminality. How does society do it, how does the state do it, first of all, what kind of laws do we have? And then secondly, it's also just as important a question, and how do they apply? Maybe we should start at the end. What and what is the situation in Croatian prisons? There, it's a picture of how the ruling thinks we should fight crime, that our laws are full and full of petty criminals and that society is powerless in the fight against the most dangerous. That's how things are set up. Somewhere visible, and somewhere less visible. Some people said it's not a problem, it's what they say in the report year after year, but not everyone's gonna hear it. The government doesn't want to hear that. In these prisons, every treatment remains meaningless because in such a tight space it is not possible to do so. And such a situation poses a serious security problem, not only of the prison system, but of the states as a whole. That's not my opinion, that's the opinion of the attorney general who, because he dared to give such an opinion, his report was not accepted but taken note of because he was the bearer of bad news, disturbing news. And until we're all upset together, there won't be any better. What is the result of this report? We in our Penal Code, with milder and more severe forms of incrimination of basic crimes, have some over 700 incriminations. What did we give our repressive bodies, both to the police and to the state's attorney's office, later and to the courts, what should they do? It's obvious to you from this display, the statistical display where things are set up, that our police, the State's Attorney's office and then later courts, and later the prison penalty system that they're dealing with, possession of drugs. Over 80% of drug abuse, therefore, is a fundamental crime, and we often know that the subject of drugs is a source, or the subject of organized drug cartel activity, they are no longer a mob, they are cartels, and we are dealing with drug possession because it is so set up in the Penal Code. Until 76-77 to so-called. Our mini-reforms were not a crime, but then we decided probably to start a strong war, fight that kind of repression, and see how far that got us. That's one thing. On the other hand, economic crime and economic incrimination are the source of the corrupt action of the linkage between the mafia and the part of the policy of all levels. That's the definition. But we keep saying that with economic incrimination everything is fine, that's what the government is saying. And in 2004, it was said that this should not be rushed to promote these incriminations. It's been four years since 2004. In this report each year there is therefore such an observation that even what is being processed, and we see that everyone is dissatisfied with persecution, does not experience their adequate court epilogue and that is what the profession says, that is what judges themselves say is a good cause and inadequate normative. And so we all say that, but we don't want to introduce ourselves, we don't want to introduce these economic incriminations or as a central economic work of misusing trust. We have also seen in this report how much damage the state suffers from such behaviour and in parallel with this is a major and devastating threat to the criminal activity of legal persons. We see how strong it is in the rise in criminality committed by legal persons. But by 2002, we had no criminal responsibility for legal persons. How do they work? But it is also possible today, so after several proceedings and litigation and enforcement, this happened to the amendments to the law in 2004, that such a person who damaged the state, who impoverished the workers by not paying for his work, simply liquidated the company and nothing. And then there's nothing but a successful businessman like that who's starting a new company, and I'm asking you not on a regular basis, but on the HItro program.HR and we're constantly warning about these situations. There is no successful fight, we can act, but without such incrimination it is not possible to have a successful fight against economic crime, and I repeat, it is the source of all other troubles. We will then focus and talk about receiving, giving bribes, these are also very dangerous, also most dangerous crimes, but we will not be able to trace them without a central crime of trust abuse. In our country, citizens simply don't realize that it's possible for us to order goods. So that's what we see here from the report that it's about such acts that are more litigious in nature, where the believer is not responsible for his debts, where it's not a crime. Where, then, he impoverishes his business in such a way very harmful and dangerous and other, healthy companies that act according to the law. I think that's the basic problem in our country. And the basic problem is then perception of course and the public, because the public well perceives what is danger and what is not. We have a criminal act of cloning, something that cannot be done in the state. This has already been introduced as a very dangerous crime in 2004. It is also to mention what is disturbing to the public, and I think that all of us should be upset, and this is also the result of the report, which is the criminality of minors. He's on the rise, but he's seriously talking about this problem, about a drastic conflict between individuals and society. The crimes which, in the overall mass of crime, are also involved, we also see these most deadly crimes against life and the body. According to statistical indicators, they're not in, they're not on the rise, or they're on a slight rise. But what amazes the public is the way they are executed, that they are at first sight unmotivated, that it is very difficult to reach the perpetrator. And that's what upsets the public, which are ordered murders, paid murders. We believe that in the amendments and we want to point out this, too, that in the amendments to the Penal Code, they will find adequate sanctions for such the most deadly and most dangerous crimes. There's something else I'd like to point out. We're the only ones with the State's Attorney's office who's involved in the protection of state property. It has been organised everywhere in a way that deals only with the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal acts. We have situations like this that you can't figure out what's going on, that even state-owned companies are registered on ponds, on entire lakes like HEP did on Peru. And that's why, unfortunately, we need the state's attorney's office to deal with that kind of problem. I believe that in the near future when the state property is registered, when we suppress such one behavior that resulted in us once having social property...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20898	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20899	And that she is no one's and that now as a state, no one should be protected but only everyone should be robbed...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20900	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20901	That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20902	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20903	A colleague of Anticevic spoke about the relationship between politics and crime. I think this is a place where we should clearly, publicly and loudly tell the Croatian public that we professional politicians are the mother of all our problems, that it is the birthplace of all our problems, that it is the birthplace of corruption, crime and everything that is wrong in this society with politics and crime and criminals. We are just the politicians who have to say it publicly and who have to say as some civilizations have done that the most severe must be punished by those who deal with those jobs that are by definition for public good, for the general interest, and they use it for their own breakthrough, for crime, for robbery. So, I think that we need to find ways to get into the laws, that politicians who get caught in such actions, and unfortunately there are many or little or medium, as we're going to evaluate, will be severely punished for example for all those who think about taking advantage of this honorable job to reproduce the disaster of this people. We have shown here, unfortunately, sometimes that politicians are neither for their political nor for their other responsibility. This is about the Brodosplit affair. We have intimate people if politicians and those bodies that make decisions are at least harmful, and some are foolish, and some smell like crime. As long as that's the case, we're not gonna solve anything in this society. We must tell ourselves first that we are not all alike and that we will deal with those amongst us who embarrass us.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20904	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20905	My colleague, this will never happen or will never happen if I repeat, we do not have such a criminal act of economic incrimination that will primarily cover the management structures that are everywhere in the world, primarily in Europe designed so that the first members of the board of directors and supervisors are called upon to be responsible. And with us they say I didn't know. That outside means they've confessed to a felony as a detour who's set up to turn trains, and he says I didn't know that train was passing through. There, that's it and that's what pisses our public off. Director and owner of the Parmalate, why was he a criminal... And why has he been in prison for over 30, 40 years? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because he damaged the believers, he made deals to the detriment of the believers. And it's considered the most dangerous crime in the world. But we're absolutely ineffective here because we don't have the kind of crime that was just scheduled for these structures, for the structures of white collar crime. Only those who are in blue usually answer to us, as we say in Dalmatia, marina monsters.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20906	Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20907	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Chief State Attorney, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the introduction, I would like to point out that I support the report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2007. The report on the work of the State Attorney's Office for 2007 professionally and thoroughly gives an overall picture of the work of the State's Attorney's Office in the area of criminal, civil and administrative law, data on the work of USKOK, county and municipal state attorneys, in accordance with the powers and duties of the criminal offenders, the withdrawal of legal actions to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, the application of legal means to protect the Constitution and the law. When we talk about criminal cases, it is important to note that the number of criminal charges is reduced in 2007 against known and unknown perpetrators by 4% compared to 2006. The fact that more than 5/6 convictions have been handed down indicates that the selection of criminal charges is justified and that the quality of the work of the State's attorney's office in criminal matters is satisfactory. The very structure of the criminality of all persons reported, known and unknown, is similar to that of previous years. Namely, the most numerous and continued crimes against property are followed by crimes of drug abuse and crimes against freedom and the rights of citizens. Special attention of the State's Attorney's Office is given to monitoring the crimes of domestic violence and to applying for criminal offences at the expense of children and families. Furthermore, the trend of reducing litigation continues in 2007. More attention is given to the protection of state property, primarily real estate. Up-to-date in the work of civil-government departments depends certainly on the urgency of the conduct of individual state bodies, as well as courts. Civil-Governmental departments of state attorneys recorded a drop in cases of 6.5% compared to 2006. The level of urgency in the work of the state's attorneys has been reached as the work of the state's attorneys is being monitored. It also controls complex objects. In view of the fact that the registration of the right of ownership of the Republic of Croatia is on the property of the Republic of Croatia and on the general good of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia, the work of the State's attorneys should be further directed to determine and register state property in land books and other registers, as well as to collect taxes and requests from the state. Achieved results in the work and achieved a degree of urgency enables state lawyers and their deputies to work better to prosecute perpetrators of criminal offences and protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore important to support the insistence of state attorneys for the employment of quality and professional staff, in particular for the work on complex cases, and in particular for the work on criminal offences in the area of economic crime. State attorneys must also prepare for urgent changes in their work in view of the significantly different situation they expect under the proposal of the Criminal Procedure Act. It is certainly necessary to support the efforts of state attorneys for alternative ways of resolving civil disputes. Traco, for example, public lawyers are obliged when it is possible to make settlements, i.e. to make every effort to settle disputes peacefully outside court proceedings, requiring the provision of funds in the state budget for payments under agreed settlements. So far, the results achieved in the most difficult acts of economic crime suggest a necessary change in material and procedural criminal law, which would, I believe, ensure a swift and effective criminal procedure, certainly with the cooperation of state bodies under the State's attorney's office. For this reason, I support the report on the work of the state's attorneys for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20908	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Branko Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20909	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. State Attorney, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the area of the Republic of Croatia, 2,000 criminal applications were received on average in 2007. Comparing the average of applications in Croatia with other neighbouring countries, regardless of possible different crime rates, the crime rate in Croatia can be said to be not particularly worrying. However, the situation differs in certain areas. Tourist areas and larger transit areas generally have a higher crime rate than average. I'm going to look a little more at the juveniles of the perpetrators of the crime. As with adults, the most numerous applications for property crimes are almost 40.8%. Others were crimes related to drug abuse 26.5%. As with other age groups, the number of reported minors is reduced, but as with other age groups, crimes against life and the body are on the rise. And that's even 91%. The reason is that the prosecution for the crime is a minor body injury Article 98. The criminal code, when committed to a child or a minor, initiates the criminal proceedings under official duty. If we consider 241 juvenile sanctions, then it turns out that the courts in most cases made special commitments on average by about 41.1%, while according to 11.6% of the younger minors were sentenced to juvenile prison. Reports for crimes against life and the body are after years of continuous decline, unfortunately on the rise. Mostly because of a change in the Penal Code, as I have already said, it is now being prosecuted by official duty for mild physical injury, if a child or a minor is damaged. Crimes against life and bodies are represented in all age groups. Compared to the structure of the reported crime in these criminal acts, there is a slightly greater involvement of the younger population. It is evident from the insight into the specific subjects that the damage has also been sought in the least of the injuries by the physician. Small strokes, scratches. The doctors then inform the police according to the law, and after processing the police provide a criminal application to the state's attorney's office. In minor perpetrators, no special features are observed. It's mostly criminal acts of extreme character. Most often come from a family of unburdened sociopathological features, but it can be concluded that minors are increasingly verbal conflicts and mutually difficult to communicate with each other by physical violence. In 2007, the policy of punishment was tightened. The number of prison sentences is growing. The basic reason for this trend is to change the prescribed framework of penalties in the Penal Code. However, still and especially in some areas, state lawyers do not file complaints over decisions on punishment, although the policy of punishment in these areas is much less favourable than the policy of punishment in general. Part of the state's attorney doesn't file a complaint over the court's decision on sanctions, justifying that the appeal will be refused anyway. When we talk about criminal acts against official duty, the basic characteristic is a high number of rejections of applications, length of proceedings and a small number of convictions. Criminal acts against official duty as purely official acts cause significant attention, especially as most of these acts are considered by international standards of corruption offences. For this work, a steady high percentage of liberating and refuting judgments are present, showing all complexity and difficulty in proving it. The relationship between the applications filed, the charges brought and the verdicts delivered is extremely unfavourable. It is precisely in the most difficult acts of economic crime that the process takes the longest time and success is lower than the average. As pointed out in the State's Attorney's report last year, and this repeats itself, because nothing has changed, the data on success in the greatest crimes of economic crime show that it is necessary to change both material and procedural criminal law in this area in order to ensure a swift and effective criminal procedure. In addition to the amendments to the law, the work of individual state authorities that are in charge and have powers in detecting and reporting abuses is extremely important both to the harm of the budget and to the harm of individual legal and physical persons. As part of the reform of the judiciary, an alternative dispute resolution strategy was adopted, which is necessary not only for the reduction of the backlogs and the number of pending cases in courts but also to enable citizens to achieve all their rights and freedoms guaranteed by law. In civil and administrative disputes, state lawyers are obliged whenever possible to fully protect the interests of the state to make deals and to take all the legal powers to settle disputes peacefully outside court proceedings. The aim is to protect the state's assets as well as to avoid unnecessary litigation and burden on courts. The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia continued its work on a non-judicial settlement in cases of juvenile delinquency, which has been one of the most significant extra-procedural activities of the state's attorneyship in this area over the past few years. Such action is fully in line with the strategy of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia for all types of proceedings to be carried out in order to discharge the courts as much as possible. Based on the review of work and work on second-degree cases, state attorneys do not use all the legal opportunities they have in the selection, type and measures of criminal sanctions. This is particularly evident in easier crimes committed out of kindness, property shares, as well as in a number of other crimes, illegal transfer of people across borders, intellectual property violations, etc. as well as criminal offences which provide property benefit to a legal person, it seems exclusively for the purpose of obtaining profits, and state lawyers need instead of short-term prison sentences and usually are prescribed prison sentences for up to three months which only burden the prison system to be proposed with the sentence of imprisonment with the application of a conditional sentence and the sentence of secondary fine. By giving a severance penalty with a conditional sentence and by confiscation of the property benefit obtained by carrying out a criminal offence, the perpetrator who has the means and who has committed a criminal offence may achieve the purpose of the penalty prescribed by the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20910	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20911	Thank you very much. My colleague Crlenko, you're saying that part of the state's attorneys don't file a complaint in a variety of procedures, primarily on official duty. Not just that. I'll tell you one example from the Great Gore. The town of Velika Gorica, or City Headship, had a contract with the State Attorney's Office in Velika Gorica, led by Mrs Dujmović for years to represent the town of Velika Gorica as a unit of local self-government in all legal procedures. And imagine, in three years, the State's Attorney's Office in Gorica didn't get a single court case that was ever conducted on behalf of the city, and when we changed that, when we hired our own lawyer from now on, there were more than 20 legal proceedings, we didn't lose one and we made a deal in one. But that's not all. There's a lot of cases like that. And I'm going to mention another case, which is that we don't know until today, even though a report was filed to the state's attorney's office in 2005 in Velika Gorica for the work of unwitting business worth a million kuna where goods were simply paid, which had never been delivered to the reconstruction of the Public Open University of the Main Vinnik, not only had no criminal application filed against him, but the government appointed him as a member of the FINA Supervisory Board. There you go. So much for the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20912	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20913	My colleagues and fellow MPs. I think the state's attorney's office, I think, well, they've been doing their jobs, and they've been statistically showing them. I'll take a special look at one part of the report, i.e. working disputes in which the State's Attorney's Office represents the Republic of Croatia as a defendant. The report shows that such disputes are largely lost by the Republic of Croatia, and at that time huge costs arise that exceed the amount of the sued one to the detriment of the state budget. It is clear from the report that these work disputes are the result of non-compliance with the contracted rights of employees. For example, the costs of transport, overtime, night work, rest, and there would be a lot more to be counted there. The report said a number of litigation proceedings against the Republic of Croatia have been conducted in recent years, i.e. The defence departments in which prosecutors seek payment for reduced labour rights and that the first judicial rulings were just in 2007 or were brought by the Supreme Court by decision or by its position on those disputes which were still being withdrawn from the 99th year. So it's about to be the tenth anniversary. But I am interested in what state institutions, institutions or businesses are in dispute with employees regarding labour and social rights. It would be good to have a list of those in the report because the 2008 reports show that the ratio of acquired and lost labour disputes is far more favourable which is good in any case for workers than for the state, i.e. For every three working disputes received, one is lost. It would be good for the report to be read since these disputes are extended, i.e. as long as they are withdrawn from the period 1999/2003. A year and how much from that later period. Then, as I said, what are state institutions, institutions, companies currently in labor disputes with employees. I also think it would be interesting that it would also interest taxpayers to see why and how this money from the budget bag is wasted because of someone’s negligence or intent to deceive workers or employees. I believe that in the future report, all those state institutions should appoint those who deprive their employees and thus damage the state budget because I do not think that they should be hidden because individuals, persons who should be responsible for harming the state budget, are hiding behind them. Workers and employees, I call on them, would also be against such individuals, as well as state bodies, so they should not be particularly encouraged to do so, should also file criminal charges for the deliberate non-compliance of contracted rights with collective agreements if we know that the collective agreement has a certain legal force. The state should also, which I do not know yet, have not seen, have happened to sue the budget damages of such individuals, were those ministers, were directors, directors at all, because it is they who deliberately tried to deceive the workers, cut off the employees, and, of course, caused damage to the state budget. Now, if one of them were to sue, and one of them was to charge that damage once, then I think each of them would think twice about breaking the rights of the worker again on purpose. Because we have examples, we certainly have examples, I can even point them out, but I won't, if I have to, where I know that the collective contract was deliberately not respected and that the workers were deliberately damaged, and thus produced a really big, huge damage to the position of the state budget. Because you know safe authority is sweet, but it has to be responsible for those who act on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20914	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20915	Thank you very much. Comrade Kunst, I love your idea very much. I particularly like the idea of the state's attorney's office starting a persecution against those who are neglectful of their own, not knowingly or deliberately working in the government, as you said, even as ministers caused damage to the state budget. I'm curious now whether you have this attitude to those former members of the government who caused enormous damage in the state budget to make a deal with Astaldi, who made huge damage to the state budget at Slavonska Banka when they were misrepresented and when the lawsuit took place and when now the state budget, the citizens of this country, will have to pay for their money, their incompetence, their lack of knowledge or their malice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20916	Replication response, Mr. Representative Goris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20917	So it's a special pleasure when there's a fellow representative of Stazic, which is very rare, he supports in my debate, this is a unique case, which is where we'll agree anyway. So no matter who the party belongs to, it doesn't matter at all, I think we should once introduce a practice that everyone answers for what he did at the post of anyone in this country. But I must say, fellow Stazic, that huge damage has been done to the budget. Just when Minister Crkvenac gave instructions to the ministers from internal affairs, so the defences, tax administrations, that he did not respect a collective contract with employees, and then the weights that had once exceeded a billion and about 200,300 million kunas began. And that's really one big problem. Regardless of what I have now appointed persons, and I could still count them, because I know, at the time I cooperated and was surprised that it deliberately gave instructions to ministers not to respect these rights to workers and they know that they would lose the dispute, it was only a question of when, apparently, he did not expect to be more at that post after, but it came at the checkout and came at the checkout today. And everyone should answer for it, it should be extended to those who deliberately violated it collectively. And I agree with you and the ones you counted, it doesn't matter at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20918	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20919	When it comes to the work of state attorneys, then the public is particularly interested in that part of the state's attorney's office that is doing USKOK. It means fighting organized crime and corruption. After the latest killings in Zagreb and the executive and legislative authorities have shown their determination in the fight against organised crime and corruption. In doing so, it is important to keep in mind that these two things are very closely related, corruption and organised crime. Organized crime was not organized to kill people, but rather to earn money, and killings are only necessarily an evil where organized crime is defended or discovered, or it is part of an internal campaign for territory or for prey. Money is the one that gives organized crime power, without money they would be an ordinary street gang with which it would be very easy to account. Money and connections to sources of power in politics and justice. That's what he lives on, that's how he feeds organized crime. It also means that money is a fear to follow in the fight against organised crime. Here is an amendment to the legislation, the prime minister said some anti-mafia laws, whatever that means. So under these anti-mafia laws, he announced, DNA should be taken to criminals. Well, easy for DNA, they're already getting DNA anyway, but I think they need property, not DNA. Because if we take their DNA, we won't do much to fight organized crime. They need to be taken with the property because that property gives them the power they have. To deal with crime and order and pay for murder. E, again in the confiscation of property, it is announced, I hear, that the property would also be taken away after a powerful verdict on the work under the jurisdiction of the USKOK. First. That possibility already exists and it's not some big... As we had the chance to see, Judge... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A few days ago, one such measure was said by one of those drug traffickers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that would certainly be an insufficient measure. Property should be deducted in any event where no legal origin of money or property can be proved. Not now waiting to catch a member of an organized group, then wait for a final verdict, then take it away, it's all expensive too late and ineffective. Let's look up to Italy. There, money is taken away wherever it can't be, and where I'm human, it can't prove the origin of that money, the legal origin of that money. If we do that, then we won't be bothered by the limitation deadlines for any converted crime or war profit or corruption money, for nothing. What do we care how that money was earned? Are we interested in whether he's acquired legally or not? The one who can't prove that he's legally earned the money is also being taken away from him. End of story. It's just that it can't be simpler and it's not completely original. It's what you do in Italy. Exactly. So when we have a situation where someone has a villa, we look at his salary, we see how much taxes he's paid. Well, that data's been in the IRS since the '90s. You can see for everyone how much he paid his taxes means how much he made legally. Can't that money justify that property, and can't it say that he won it, won it on the lottery, some inheritance we have all of which we consider illegally acquired property. Professor Josipovic gave one such amendment in recent amendments to the Penal Code. The government turned him down. If she had adopted it, we'd have applied it. The government rejected him. I don't know why. It'll be as if someone in the government doesn't fit to do it that way. It will be that someone still has some property there whose origin could not quite prove it legal, so Josipovic's amendment is rejected to do so. The SDP will be persistent in new amendments to the Penal Code in the submission of such amendments and we expect from the State Attorney's Office as much as it can use its influence to support at least one such SDP insistence that has failed once, but we hope it will not fail again. There is no successful fight against organised crime unless it is also a fight against corruption. And it's against corruption at the highest level. It's good to fight corruption both in offices and in college. We welcome that, but that's not good. And speaking of this corruption in college, as far as I can tell, only students and their parents are being judged. There's still no verdict against any professor. I don't know if they're accused or just students being persecuted. But I'm asking you, Chief Attorney, what about those forms of high-level corruption? Above the office and above the university? What about the centers of power? Well, you know where the power centers are. It's government, state power. The pillars of the state government. Executive, legislative, judicial. What about the three judges of the High Court of Commerce who are constantly the three in the Council when suspicious verdicts are made by which millions are placed directly in the pocket of a member of a criminal organisation. For example, in the case of... Well, that's a state's attorney known to you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Directly in the pocket of an illegal verdict. And there's no appeal. It's a second-degree court. It's over! They ruled and gave some money. What would the mob do with this little organized drug deal? Well, that's risky. I can end up in jail. Well, it's much simpler to take money through courts, the High Court of Commerce. Why don't we have any persecution here? What about the ministers? What about Brodosplit? Well, we had a minister on the board of directors. Yes, it is. We've got low-level processing. What about the Croatian Privatisation Fund? Three vice presidents. Okay, three vice presidents. But we had ministers in the board of directors. Now there's no more surveillance than the board of directors. Management, they're making a decision. They're signing it. Well, I guess the assistants are just making a decision. So how is it that I can effectively pursue lower levels but that nowhere and never reach anyone from a higher level? You boast here and that's good, one councilman of the congregation and one member of the headship. You say it's not just street corruption. Here we have a councilman and a member of the headship. Okay. But what about all those councilmen who sold their mandates? Watch out for the purchase of council mandates, so it's one business here that one party is engaged in, but it's a craftsman. Look at the number of cases. Well, when someone changes, someone's been elected somewhere, so when they change that position they've been chosen from, then corruption doesn't have to be just in money. It may be in a position, in the privileges that arise from that position. But look when it's so massive and it's always for the benefit of one party, then there must be a reasonable doubt that this is about corruption and the worst form of corruption. It's political corruption. Until we deal with political corruption, state's attorney, we won't be credible in public. We won't. We as a society neither you nor the whole, this whole part of your judicial system State's Attorney's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20920	Thank you. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what I'd like to say, first of all, that I really support this report. I believe it is of quality or quality that is made up of a methodology that is absolutely acceptable and by analysis of the report itself, we can come not only to the conclusions that are important for the work of the State's Attorney's Office but also to the state of crime. A general analysis of the structure and criminality and criminal offences, on all grounds and thus taking into account other problems that arise in this observed segment of justice, part of prosecution but always taking into account it naturally under constitutional provisions or constitutional provisions defined by the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences, as well as to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and to file legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the law. In this particular sense, I would like to point out that it is precisely logical that almost all discussions of respected representatives focused on this first part or most of it or the main part, so on the state of crime, criminal offences, certain forms of crime and read out from the very report on the state of crime, the structure of crime in relation to the number of perpetrators and criminality in general. In my opinion, however, it is also very important to point out the problems that arise in that part of the civil-law department of the State's Attorney's Office, even if there is nothing else that often makes life a very thin border when we cross from these or undefined such relations in the area of crime. I will quote one part or read one part of this report that concerns this particular issue, and it reads: “Therefore, the recording of the right of ownership of the Republic of Croatia on properties owned by it and of the general good is of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia as it is the only way to protect extremely valuable property, and it applies to the coast, to the sea, to the islands, to the forests, to the agricultural land, to the natural wealth and, of course, to protect the environment and to make the available to the real estate transparent. I believe that in this particular segment of the work of the State Attorney's Office, and also in this report, certain problems have been identified which the State's attorney may not be able to resolve on its own and certainly need to find a way, and also financial resources so that these perceived problems do not continue to burden one very important segment of economic, but also any other activity, and the protection of the most valuable resources in this respect of the Republic of Croatia. An example works. The biggest problem has indeed been seen in determining the limits of maritime good. Borders of maritime goods due to lack of funds, but not only that, they are not systematically determined. Therefore, they are not systematically determined but at the request of interested parties. In my opinion, such a situation should not be acceptable. In practice and in everyday life, there is not only a failure to resolve the limits of maritime good, but the procedure is carried out in a verse. In order to carry out the wording of this finding, we are also found in the report itself, and the financing system needs to be changed necessarily. Making pitches and their enrollment in the land-book departments of municipal courts is a problem for itself and since it arises as a problem I would not want to comment on it in any way but that it is necessary to resolve the way of promiscuous recording and these situations when it comes to such a kind of real estate. In these concrete examples, therefore, the limits of the establishment of maritime goods. Therefore, the worried conclusion of the State’s Attorney’s Office can be that all of this has made enrolment in land books impossible. What does that mean? Therefore, there is no enrolment, no distinction, no registration of ownership rights, and that would be unacceptable, and there is an unacceptable situation that, according to the proposal for registration, therefore such types of property proceedings last for years with very high costs and non-transparency of the procedure which should certainly be removed. It is necessary to do everything to ensure that this procedure and not only when setting the limits of maritime goods but also for other types of real estate, I have mentioned them, which is to be simplified as much as possible, and to get as soon as possible to register the rights of ownership of the Republic of Croatia as possible, but to make these properties truly valuable as this state has, which the Republic of Croatia has in order to be able to protect themselves in the best possible way. We must not even allow the lack of funds for the production of parcels, we all know what this is about to be an insurmountable difficulty in registering any segment of the right of ownership of the Republic of Croatia. So, regardless of the maritime good, it was agricultural land, it was forest land, or it was water good. And that is why I would absolutely support or support this proposal of the State Attorney's Office, which is also a concrete proposal that we find in the report itself, which is to establish a special body, so a body that will only deal with the limits of maritime goods, and I would supplement which one would deal with, so recognising a new problem and taking care of this problem in a way that all procedures are kept up to date, to be completed as soon as possible. Therefore, systematic setting of the border along the coast when it comes to establishing maritime goods borders. It is necessary to make it easy to simplify the criteria of demarcation to set the limit in question situations, to simplify and limit procedures, or to set appropriate deadlines for this. And thirdly, in my opinion, the most important thing is to eliminate inequality in the conduct of courts in terms of how to enroll and delete invalid entries of such a type of right of ownership. Therefore, the rights of ownership to be entered in the Republic of Croatia. It's final. The State Attorney's Office has precisely located problems in both sectors and in the second segment, and has given ways to resolve and when we talk about a clean area of crime, but also when we talk about the problem of enrolling real rights in the Republic of Croatia regardless of the type of real estate itself. I believe that this problem should be approached very seriously, and financial resources and a legal basis should be prepared to ensure that all preconditions are met. And just a few more sentences. The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia is indeed, and this is also visible from this report, its work is self-responsible, responsible. I think that, entirely with all the difficulties he has, of course, in his work in that sense, he can through this report and through the structure of the subject and through the analysis of the subject get a positive assessment. Finally, I would like to point out that what as an independent and judicial body and even better works would give even better results than there was already talk about. It's necessary to lay down a regulation. One of these laws is a very important law in the parliamentary procedure. He went through his first reading here at the High House. It is therefore a procedural, procedural law, the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is this law that will certainly create a normative framework, establishing one basis for further, further possibility of even more efficient work of the State's Attorney's Office. We need to pass a modern regulation that, in all these challenges, challenges of a new time, the way in which new forms of crime are committed in the best possible way, so as an independent judicial body, will be able to respond. With this assessment, I conclude my presentation, my debate with the note that indeed this report, which we have obtained in the form of a booklet, represents a quality work in this formal sense of quality, covers almost all relevant data and each, indeed, can serve every single one in the best possible way, not only as a source of information on the crimes committed, but also that in a very good way it can be familiar with the structure of crime, crime in the Republic of Croatia, but certainly also with the work of the State's Attorney's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20922	Thank you. Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20923	Your Honor, Vice President, Attorney General. Today is November 27th 2008, this report was delivered to the Parliament in June of this year and is reported for 2007. This topic is of paramount importance, especially now that the Croatian public is particularly sensitive to general security and the state that, I am not sure that guarantees that security in the way citizens expect it at this time. Many things have happened this year, so that citizens remember what was good in the work of the State's Attorney's Office, the police above all, the judiciary and other institutions that citizens think should guarantee their safety in 2007. And I'm afraid it is today, even though some clues, but only in the clues suggest it might be a little bit better. Mr. State's Attorney presented a very correct report for, note 2007 which was made really very systematic and correct. He listed some of the things I'd manifest myself to. First of all, there's an organized crime that has crawled into all the pores of society, including the authorities. In this report, the head of organised crime is what it is, I believe, that the report was written a little later, and not then that this head in organised crime that was previously blasphemous and mentioned in public, was avoided talking about a monster that unfortunately occupied Croatia, which is organised crime, I believe that this head would look quite different in this report. Corruption, the most mentioned word of the last months from the mouth of the holder of power, is not on them to speak of corruption, but to be eradicated and that is the basic thing. And corruption in the bodies of the state government, so I'm going to mention the operational actions the attorney general mentioned, perhaps with slightly different names of the type "Gruntovcan", "Terroria", or "Diagnosis". It would have sounded like "Dirigent" to me because the conductor is gone, and "Maestro" is all we have left. Stars, I don't know how many stars there are, so far there are two, "Indexes", these are operational actions that have rightly been praised by the State's Attorney's Office and Authority, but unfortunately these operational actions confirm enormous corruption in the bodies of the state government and we will see how this ends. The second thing is the legal capacity of the repressive apparatus in some of the laws and things to be done has also been spoken by the attorney general, not only the chief state attorney now presenting this report, but also the recently appointed ministers and home affairs and the judiciary and the chief director of police spoke of the need to amend legal legislation in a particular sphere for a better and more effective fight against the sudden appearance and corruption and organised crime that has not recently been organised. I just want to ask the attorney general did you do enough in your second term to raise awareness of the ruling elite? What changes are sufficient or presently made them aware of the dramatic events that have occurred over the past few months? The next thing is personnel teamwork, human, material and every other thing that people who do this job in the State's Attorney's Office should be guaranteed any security from financial to personal, and I absolutely support the state's attorney general, and I really think that this personnel team must be at an extremely high level, and that's a second assumption, and the first assumption is that the political will to deal with corruption and organised crime because these people have filed over a thousand counts of organised crime and corruption, the prime minister boasted here from this pay phone, but did not specify where and where these cases are in Croatian courts. I'm afraid there's a good deal of them, most of them in drawers. In the end, one example I don't understand. Street violence, which is very much spoken of at this point, not because it's a top topic, but because it's really worrying about the increase in street violence, that you get a punch in the head of 18-year-olds with very serious consequences. After a few days, the perpetrator, the boxer who admits to having done it, was released and defended from freedom. What message is that, I ask? What message is that? Has the state's attorney done enough in that case? I guess it is, but it's a really bad message. At the end of the evaluation report on the basic matter, which is a prerequisite for fighting corruption above all, including organised crime, so let me quote you. Under the heading "Corruption Crimes": "Our experiences show that citizens will report corruption only if they trust employees in the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, the Office and other state attorneys if they are sure that the state's attorneys will do their best to make sure that the corrupt person is exposed and processed. A few big cases show it best. It is interesting that citizens in these cases spoke to the State Attorney's Office by believing him as an institution or even more concrete, the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. With full co-operation with the police in these cases, the prognostic part in the persecution of these perpetrators has been quickly completed and evidence has been provided for a later procedure. If in these cases the courts make a reasonable decision, especially if we succeed in these proceedings and prove the defendants guilty, it is expected that this will encourage people exposed to corruption and that they will cooperate further with the State's Attorney's office." And another quote, regarding the final part of preventing corruption: Experience teaches us that it is extremely important, means practically on the same subject, experience teaches us that it is extremely important for citizens to trust in the system as a whole, so trust in the State Attorney's Office, in the employees of the State's Attorney's Office, because only in this case will those citizens who are exposed to pressures to give money and do some other service to a corrupt official informing the state's attorney and cooperate with him in disclosing and collecting evidence for prosecution." Dear colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately, I'm afraid that at this point this assessment is not valid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20924	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20925	My colleague Dragovan, when you're troublesome in a particular case, I think it's an eternal dilemma that's being placed not only with the expert but with the general public. The State Attorney's Office is proposing something, i.e. initiating proceedings, a detention measure is also proposed, the court shall not satisfy it at this stage or that stage. It's always a matter of responsibility and what you're dealing with here right now, whether the State's Attorney's office has taken everything, or how the court has done it. You see, these dilemmas, that is, the question of transferring the responsibilities that we had in our system from the police to the State's Attorney's office, from the State's Attorney's Office to the courts and vice versa, I think you should solve the new CAP. Unfortunately, I still had the honour of forming a task force in 2002, today in 2008, we passed the first reading. For that one standard for six years, which will only be for the adjustment of the State's Attorney's Office and the police, and where are the funds for that. The new CAP should therefore resolve full responsibility and prevent the transfer of responsibility from one segment to another. In this system, police, regular forces should be placed absolutely under command, under orders, binding orders of the State's attorney's office, but also accountable to them. However, originally imagined such a system as we saw in the first reading, we will see whether this Minister Shimonovic will make a certain step and move that the police, that the regular forces as part of the executive power correspond to the judicial authorities, in a broader sense, that is, the State's Attorney's office for the work that has been done or done. It's the only way we have a clean bill, we'll know who's responsible. In this new system, the state's attorney is responsible for the outcome of what you're talking about, but then part of the executive force should be placed not only under his command of the warrant but also part of the responsibility. We'll see if this government has the power to put part of the executive authority under judicial control.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20926	Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20927	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Chief State Attorney, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I think it is primarily important, i.e. to join those who say this report is a quality basis for talking about what the state's attorneys in the Republic of Croatia were doing in 2007. This is exactly where I'm going to pull the parallel with the failure of those obligations that the Ministry of the Interior had as a obligation, and that's the law prescribed, so only after seven years we managed to get a report and an opportunity to discuss things that might then help us sort of locate first of all what is whose role it is. I think that when Croatia starts to mention a safe country whether or not it is and is based on the state's attorney's story, I think it is wrong for the simple reason that what needs first of all to know what is in these conditions whose role. The role of the police is to find and discover the perpetrators, and the role of the State's Attorney's Office at least in that criminal section applies primarily to their prosecution. That means what the police in some way serve to the State's Attorney's office then there will be criminal persecution in that section by the State's Attorney's office. What I think is important and what you'd like to say first of all is that unfortunately this country needs a protocol between different agencies for the repressive system to work. Only in the future with changes to the CAP, when we know who will actually be responsible for the situation we have now, which is that our rejection is still extremely high and, unfortunately, according to the chief state attorney's report, it continues to grow. I would just like to remind you that the report we had on the Ministry of the Interior is about Croatia having a high crime resolution rate, 68%. What's important is, if you add that to this, this 35% of rejection would already have occurred in some way in the situation that 45% of those perpetrators that the police brought in remain in a situation to be processed. When we reject 13% of the convictions that are not judgmental, we have already come to the situation that it is 39% of the perpetrators found in police procedures. Now only 17% of those people get unconditional jail time. What does it mean in Croatia? He says it's a number of approximately 6% of people who are sentenced to unconditional imprisonment. So of the 100 perpetrators of crime, 6 has a chance to be convicted currently in Croatia under these situations and rules, and I think I should look for the main causes, and in my opinion, that message given by the State's Attorney's Office, which is the absence of general prevention both in the criminal section, and I'll say a little later in the section relating to other matters done by the State's Attorney's office. In figures for the sake of illustration, if 27 to 28 thousand ccas are sentenced in the Republic of Croatia, it means somewhere around 1800 per year they get an unconditional prison sentence. If we know that there are about 4300 people in Croatian prisons in Croatia all together, then it means that this figure is still changing, or since those in prisons are on a multiannual sentence, there is clearly another process of falling and the possibility of people being closed. What is very important to me and what I would like to mention is what I read as a second message from this report, which is actually that the State's Attorney's Office is doing maximum within that framework that this Croatian Parliament gave him, or the legislator, an opportunity. That's what I'm saying for the reason that there are still 10 thousand unsolved items in 2007 3095 if I read it correctly even though there is, the State's Attorney's Office is a very high quality actually an emergency, and we've all heard about it, and I think that's for every commendation. But this part, so these unsolved items, they're stuck right in the inability of the State's Attorney's office to affect these same cases other than rushes. And here I think it's just about everything that's most often hidden as an unsolved case, a very interesting and small percentage that's very interesting to the public about what's going on here. And that's actually where it turns out that the state's attorney's office needs a different tool to ask for and force those who actually do jobs for the state's attorney's office, to do the job to the end, not to waste or, unfortunately, maybe put them in drawers. Also, I see from this report and a message about the burden of evidence. I will not speak specifically, but I think it is crucial for Croatia not to introduce a tax number for every citizen and in some way to register his property, but it is very important to remove the burden from the state and that same burden of proving the legal possession of certain assets, that it be on citizens or on every taxpayer of the taxpayer from us. Unfortunately, I'm afraid the introduction of a tax number at least as they say so now will in some way legalize the situation so far and that we will only be able to be in a position to determine whether or not someone has legalized their property. I'm really afraid of it because it's a message that actually tells everyone urgently, quickly and efficiently now solve your assets, because what you're about to solve will not be the subject of certain problems that come later with a new tax number. I mention this for a reason to link this other topic that is extremely important to me and where, in fact, most often speaking about the criminal part and what the state's attorney's office is doing, we ignore the protection of the most important resources in the Republic of Croatia. I'll just mention that from '97. For years, we're very simply facing the fact that the Central Office of State Property says he hasn't concluded a lease agreement for business premises, hundreds of thousands of squares. We know what is happening with tourist land, as it has already been shown in the debate over maritime goods. And in 1.1.2010, so just in a year, this same state's attorney's office has to face the fact that it takes full trust in land books. This will mean that anything the state's attorney's office doesn't solve until then, anything that isn't listed as state property, and unfortunately it won't be possible to do that, I see a great danger here that the most important material resources of this country are precisely due to these deadlines and given the lack of urgency shown here in this report, that we happen to be left without it. For that reason, I think 600 people all working together in the state's attorney's office deserve better status. The second situation is the confirmation of this story that they deserve better status lies in the fact that minimum 10% of them leave the state's attorney's office annually for better paid jobs and in the end, I will end up with that, I think they should be rewarded for that part of the work that they do in a way that the great value of property in the Republic of Croatia protection. Since I'm running out of time to argue, I'm going to thank you, but what matters most to me is my last message, and that's again about criminal cases, the message that's being sent here, I think I need to make it more clear what it is that we can help the state's attorney to create a better and better situation than calling for political will. I think it's unnecessary for an independent body to say which tools, which is what needs the state's attorney's office to force all those agencies of the repressive system to do their part of the job and that we finally don't have this situation that I just brought up in numbers, which is that 6 out of 100 is actually just risking prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20928	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20929	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague incorrectly states that 100 perpetrators were sentenced to 6. I mean, that's how the work of the state's attorney's office, the judiciary, the police, is insulted, because if he'd said that on 100 applications the result was 6 or something more would have mattered another thing. In fact, the rejection is obviously not on its own because the state's attorney's office likes it or not, but there are no elements for further prosecution. Then on, that way, the work of the courts is defused. Well, courts, anyone who's sued doesn't mean he's guilty, so math is definitely bad, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20930	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20931	My colleague Ostojić, before you finish your testimony, you were also talking about salaries. It should be noted that by 2002, please, drastically, almost 30% of the state's attorneys had less salary than judges. We evened it out and put them in the ranks of the same-ranking judicial officers, equal pay. The question now is how adequate she is at this stage, but on another occasion. What seems very important to me and what you have apostrophe, so what is being processed, starts in the process, from the police, the state's attorney's office, we see that a large number, and it's prominently for economic crime. It's not for the crimes of life and body, there's courts of expedition. How come for economic crime to wait in front of an investigative judge, in front of a hearing court? It is obvious that the courts will not and will not and are very reluctant to deal with the prosecution, the convictions and the trial in economic criminal acts. And that remains one big problem, but also a solution. We're not just here to be troubled, but as a Parliament, as a legislative body to find solutions, that they're not a wasteful story and larchartism, who's going to plight more populistly or ear, these or those groups, but to see what those solutions are. This is one serious problem. So what is being processed is not an adequate epilogue, nor in time. And they're both out of date and they're obstructing whoever they want. Witches usually, and courts don't use their instruments to discipline participants, but there are solutions. As the State Attorney's Office submits its annual report, the statistical representations of each year are given by the courts to the Ministry of Justice. Why is it standing in some bunker that never saw the light of day? Such displays, such statistical indicators, should be discussed by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20932	Thank you. Replication response. Dear Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20933	Dear fellow Antičević-Marinović, you are right in this part, which is that it is precisely from this report, because I am not using any other mathematics but only what is written in the statistics in what is given. Last year alone, 17 million kunas of money were awarded, i.e. for procedures and processes due to the slowness of the Croatian judiciary, and the 2006 data was 6 million kuna. Therefore, this indicates and confirms that this additional part also means general prevention is lagging behind and that the judiciary has to do its part of the job faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20934	Thank you. Before we continue the debate, I have a notice. The 18th session of the Committee on Economy will be held today on Thursday 27 November at 14:00 in the hall "Ivan Mažuranić" 84th chairman of the Committee Dragan Kovacevic. You've been informed, so please be present. The next in line for the debate is the individual respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20935	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Chief State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. At this point, it is obvious that Croatian society is clashing with several major problems, and it seems to me that one of the main problems is imbalance or balance ratio or destabilising the balance between legislative, executive and judicial authorities. It seems to me that at the moment when the Croatian public is faced with a series of problems that have upset them, and they are related to criminal miles, to strengthening uncertainty, to problems of corruption, etc. and everything that burdens our society and which is one of the main obstacles when we talk about Croatia's rapid entry into the European Union. I think it all points to one thing. That there is too much policy influence in Croatia on different segments of society and that some instruments, mechanisms and some parts of the government cannot function independently, freely and autonomously. If that is the case, if that happens, then it is a question of every society, and in this case, if it is with us, democracy itself comes. Let us not forget that some research suggests that almost 80% of citizens experience Croatia as a corrupt country. We also said in the debate when it came to the field of health, etc. And on round tables, how research really speaks differently. So it was trying to say that this perception of citizens doesn't matter. I'm telling you, in a sociological sense, it's very important. This psychological individual feeling of killing a man is one of the lacmus paper that tells you whether a state in a society is alarming or not. If 80% of citizens, or 70%, or 51%, or 60% thinks they live in a corrupt society, or then we have immature citizens who can't think for themselves, who are not me at the level of people who don't judge or have a sick society. Someone's sick. In this case, I'm on the side of the citizens, and I think most of the time they're not wrong. We need it in this sense that I'm talking about political, independent and self-defense. A lawyer who in this situation will guarantee what is most needed, which is that he had at least one of the rebel points in which citizens will be able to invest their trust, their faith to be out of some. This is some theory of seals, dots, hotspots from where it shines from the position of righteousness, justice, independence and ineffectiveness towards society that is largely in chaos. It is up to us as the Supreme Legislative Authority to imagine whether this form of authority we belong to and which we bear, and we represent the sovereignty of the Croatian people and citizens of Croatia here at this time in Parliament to the Croatian Parliament in Parliament. So our question is, what is our role? What does it mean to pass laws that are not implemented? What kind of company is that? What kind of diphthomism is that? What's that split? Since it's just a tragic feeling of life, what one great Spanish philosopher would say is, "One writes to you in the laws, and your life sings another song all the time." These are the problems we're facing. In his opening speech, the attorney general said, quote him, "The state's attorney directs police work." And it's really a function of the state's attorney's office amongst other things. And I'm asking, is it really or is it really the police so far, and to be clear right now, I don't mean our officers on our streets, who are doing extremely hard work for small money, but for the peaks and the places that are most important in the police. Did the police really follow those directions that came from the State's Attorney's office? I can call and call again, because I think it's important, because the "Brodosplit" affair is a paradigm of something in Croatia that is not good. When the Split-Dalmatia County Police Administration received everything the State's Attorney's Office had and conducted an investigation that never ended. And when the State's Attorney's office was waiting for her to make a move, and she didn't pull it, except as a result of the investigation, she said everything was fine and there are no illegal stores. Well, that was one press conference. A spokeswoman came out, I think, to the police department or whoever. I'm talking about a police department. The state's attorney's office for the first time in Croatia has only done so without waiting for the police to finish the job they were supposed to finish and in relation to the orientations they have from the State's Attorney's Office. Does he already talk about some type of anarchy? Is this talking about some alarming situation in that system that needs to ensure that society functions normally? He's talking to me. He's talking to me, and we're in the situation where we found ourselves. Now it's in court. And let the court decide as it pleases. But then comes another very important factor in Croatia, which is the media that sometimes, I don't want to speak against the media here, because when you speak against the media especially as a politician, we're the same kind of estherade then you can also be a late politician. But when the media takes over the roles of courts or they claim in this way by creating a public change and suggesting something that should be decided in court, then the tragedy of the team is greater in society. Then we don't really know where your power centers are anymore. Today, the worst things and cases happen, so some people who ran the media were killed. So we're in a really difficult situation, and it doesn't have to be hidden. I am also not a supporter of any extraordinary situation, because it is sometimes the way to hell itself and to do away with any form of democracy, legality and journey into self-will, authoritarian solutions, uncontrollable solutions when outside of the law take measures to sweep our apartment called Croatia. I'm against it. But that's why I'm just about to work out all the institutions of the government, all the levels of government, to work on parliamentaryism, to have the legislative authority take over its responsibility, to take over all the other institutions in the executive government and in the judiciary and to take responsibility for those who don't do it properly. I think it's the only way we can get out of this situation and, for example, here I've been asking questions, many times questions about Brodosplit. Six million dollars in the flood of thieving in Croatia seems a little small for some, and I'm talking about a paradigm situation, about the smell of spray between everything I've said and what's wrong. Then you can read in our newspaper, in interviews that can go to the part called ads or paid ads how I fight against the interests of workers. As long as it's done like that, I think we're going backwards. No, the interest of workers, the interest of every citizen, teacher, opera singer, marangun, diver, if you want a pitura, is to get caught if there are those who break the law to answer for it and not to prevent it from being spoken of. And there is our responsibility very much present. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20936	Thank you. We have one correction and one replica. First correction by the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20937	Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague incorrectly claims that politics has a strong influence on the work of the state's attorney's office which is absolutely not true. If that were true then probably the state's attorney's office would have already solved that case that the Parliament sent to the state's attorney's office three years ago, Cacic "Coning" which the investigative commission determined everything there was, and none of it. So that would probably use politics. Or, for example, the case that all of the SDP's mayors and mayors get the application and after the application... State Attorney's Office for Cases of Complication of Harmful Impacts, Abuse of Positions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that happened in 2001, interesting. I just don't know who was in power then, and the state's attorney's office did it very neatly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20938	Thank you. And replicated representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20939	My friend, you're talking about the most important thing, the dichotomy, the debalancing of participants, and then there are the consequences of not being what you'd like to have. We have cases in the rule of jumping commissioners of those who put a lot of things on the line, their lives, their lives and their families, and instead of enjoying all the support of the government, the state in the whole of the state as soon as it learns about it sends them financial policy and tax administration. What does that mean? And on the other hand, part of the media that you're talking about, and it's free to talk about, try to make such a difference just to forget what these people are testifying about, to testify to the greatest crime. And he wants them to be discouraged, disappointed, discredited to such an extent that nothing can be invented anymore that they may have driven a cat into a backyard as boys or girls. And what does that mean, a colleague, and a colleague who came to you for correction? That the State does not essentially care about either the independent state attorney's office or the independent judiciary as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20940	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20941	So I think we're going to have to take responsibility for ourselves and start talking with courage about those honest real people in both the police administrations and the state's attorney's office, and wherever they work honorably, who tried to stop what they were personally experiencing, that they were being replaced, that they were being removed from office, that they had not progressed in the services. There are many of these honorable people, and I always say that honorable people are the majority. But until we're brave enough to talk about it or at least listen to each other and not write our answers at home before we hear a question like Mr. Markovanovic because I didn't say what you said. I was talking about the problem of over-influenced policy on all institutions, including the state's attorney's office. At our place, he went from condicional to reality. He's no longer that it could happen but it's happening. I've said the mother of all problems is a piece of politics and crime and we politicians are the most responsible to prevent it, first of all among us gentlemen. That's what I'm saying to myself and to you, I don't consider anyone a criminal here, but I think we'll all be responsible if we don't talk about it openly and do everything we can to get rid of it, not write it at home... Before we heard and spoke of our political inexperiences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20942	Thank you. And an individual debate further. Ivica Pancic is a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20943	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen. The best assessment of Croatia's situation regarding the security and degree of organised crime and the spread of corruption and the inability of state bodies to deal with this problem has provided several occasions for the new director of police. And that was the most devastating criticism of the Croatian set that could be heard from the authorities themselves and on their own account. And you, Mr. State Attorney all these years, have been critical of the system, trying to improve it, and surely in that part, you have succeeded in doing what is visible in this report, but there is no room for complacency. Because there is still a big job in front of all of us so that we can say that we live in a state where institutions successfully deal with the challenges of crime and corruption, especially crime and corruption related to the peaks of political power. And the credibility of the state's attorneyship as well as the other institutions in society will be measured in the future with the willingness to deal with corruption in the highest political spheres. Unfortunately, we can conclude that there is still no such thing as preparedness. And I'm going to back that up with a specific case. A year and a month ago, a group of parliamentary deputies filed criminal charges against unknown perpetrators of the County State's Attorney's Office in Zadar, meaning a year and a month ago. This application could not have been, I suppose, processed in this report, but probably within the past year, the Croatian public could have heard what the report had to do with it. It could have been rejected, it could have been claimed that parliamentary representatives did not know what they were saying, or could have been accepted, either partly accepted or placed as most likely as it happened in the lowest drawer. Because simply this application couldn't be dismissed and it started from that story that one road, and we're talking about the Zadar-Gaženica road instead of 200 million jumped to 442 million and now we've learned that these 442 million have grown to 600 million because of the land malversions because the route was changing, it went along a new route because someone had previously bought the land, but then I didn't know it so it wasn't in the application and it wasn't listed. The application could not be rejected because the actors themselves in contributions to newspapers that I also delivered to the state's attorney's office because it was not a sheet of paper, but two kilograms of different documentation, themselves admit that they were taking material from an illegal quarry, that they were charging twice the transport and transport of material from the highway. And even more so, they included the dig of the material, and the dig wasn't at all because that stone was lying on the highway. And they made a good idea to charge the stone for Croatian highways for transportation, to charge Croatian roads for transportation and to charge for the excavation, which I repeat, there was no more. It's quite indisputable that the actors themselves in that story admit. It is also undeniable that the money for the road was given by Croatia's electricity industry, 300 million kuna, although it has never happened that one state-owned company is thus transferring money to another state-owned enterprise, but it can be relativeized. It can also be relativised, but this state's attorney's office has not even tried to question the swelling of certain items in the cost list, where certain amounts have increased by 100%. The coster, the total coster with concrete remarks, was delivered to the state's attorney's office, but of course it does not consider it appropriate to inform the Croatian public at all what it has done about it. The other day in the paper, we could read that when one of the members of the government was arrested, the police of that county were not involved, because it was estimated to be alive and unlively tied to political powers. And let me also express my suspicion that this state's attorney's office is dancing with some political powers down there. But I'm guessing that's not the only state's attorney's office because in some of the cases I've been talking about, I'm going to have to compliment politically because they responded immediately to what I pointed out. Which suggests that if there is a will to do something professionally and correctly, then it will be done professionally and correctly. And if this were a lonely case, they'd say, well, my God, one case doesn't matter, we'll make it right. But last year, the public was full of information, as Brussels says, but I am not interested in European bureaucracy, but I am interested in Croatian citizens when it comes to high levels of corruption in public procurement. And the biggest jobs the Croatian state has shared through these, through competitions in large infrastructure projects. I've spoken and now I'm going to repeat and I'd like a criminal report against me for disturbing the Croatian public if it's not true what I'm saying. And I say: Competitions of furniture, competitions of prices, competitions of certain companies participate, and after one company gets a job, all the companies that participated in the competition share these jobs. Especially if you're asking if I have any proof of it. Well, of course I do. This is official data from Autoway Rijeka-Zagreb, where it is visible how one... got jobs and after that all who participated, the other 5, 6 companies that had higher prices at the competition eventually participated in these jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was also an affair about the purchase of tunnel equipment and the rest where one company lost its job even though it had the most favourable offer, she got another. But then what's next? Then the compensation follows, this company that lost the job it was supposed to get will get another job on the Zagreb-Macelj highway, it seems to me where this offer of 150 million kuna was accepted for 752 metres of highway, and an offer of 74 million kuna was not accepted, it was rejected. It is ungrateful to come into conflict with the political summit. But I'm asking here whether, before the local elections, it's a very serious question, whether the government will press the state's attorney's office to get certain cases out of the drawers against perhaps politically inadmissible candidates. And why is that? Because individual state lawyers had politically tactile certain ungrateful political applications all along and put them in the lowest drawer. So the future time is slowly running out I would, if I were to pray for anything else, convinced that we are still going slowly but towards this desired goal that the State's Attorney's Office as well as the other institutions should be in the service of all citizens and not individual political options that you will give me a warrant for your people to finally answer this simple question of what is with this famous golden road "Zadar-Galženica"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20944	Thank you. Dear representative Neda Klaric. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to correct a few in a whole series of incorrect orders from Mr. Pancic. False Mr. Pancic to compete with furniture, incorrect to share business. Inaccurately, there are living and unlively tied to political powers. We all know very well what the Public Procurement Act obliges us to do? We all know very well that by the same law and by a series of other laws that this Croatian Parliament has just passed, and when we talk about commissions, and what must we finally do? What are procedures? And I also have to, let me further Mr. Vice President say, that I'm happy here's what our local communities are doing, the local environments are moving so tightly forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20946	Thank you. And we have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20947	According to counterpart Pancic, parliamentary deputies have sent a criminal application and the state's attorney's office in Zadar has not responded. So what do you wonder? What wonders you fellow Pancic if that State's Attorney's office had to have made it to Minister Calmeta. And don’t be surprised that it didn’t react when the parliamentary representatives warned of something. Well, the President of the Republic warned. It's not the Stazic in front of Charlivan Jarnjak: I-I spoke. The president of the Republic says ten times that the purchase of trucks in the morh is corrupt and that it needs to be investigated. Four years of reconnaissance about it, four years. And you see how it ends? That colleague Nada Klaric says it doesn't matter what the President of the Republic says, what you're saying. Never mind. Competitions aren't furniture. And that's because that's what Nada Klaric says. That's it. That's proof. Neda. [[Intruder: Neda.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20948	I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, this is Parliament. As you have the right to say one side so as a great Democrats allow both sides to say what they think they should say. According to how many arguments that will judge those who listen to us and the state's attorney who sits here. We have a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20949	I, too, became a fellow Stazic myself, bored of repeating something that is common knowledge. That's what the minister, the new justice minister, says the new interior minister, that's what the new director of the police says, that's what that unfortunate Brussels says, but you see, but you see that there are also parliamentary deputies who believe we live in an ideal, beautiful society where there is no illegality. If so, they should not be spoken of because it is not convenient to point to irregularities. And I'm asking a question, and what is it that Parliamentarians serve for? Among other things, for the control of the executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20950	Thank you. I can only say that I personally have a very unpleasant experience when it comes to such accusations, and even here in the House, I have been stripped of immunity in a criminal so-called. The body, publicly embarrassed that after two years, the State's Attorney's Office would find there was no crime. That's why I'm warning you, when you go public, you're making arguments, not just general observations because it can be very dangerous. And we have another replica of the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20951	Doing business with the state because the state remains the biggest employer but also units of local self-government are the largest source of any type of crime and involvement of politics and cartels of various mafia organisations. It warns not of unfortunate Brussels, but we are unhappy because we often hide what we should do and what we should be afraid of. It is our problem and our misfortune and our Eastern sin that we cannot overcome. So the main problem here is that on "received face" everything is clear at first sight. The job got the best bidder with the cheapest offer, and its cheapest offer is at least two, three times what such goods can buy in any store. Let's not talk about services and construction. And how is it that by changing power suddenly these prices have jumped 30%, and everything is fine. Job got the best bidder. And those who have given a higher price agree to work as a subcontractor. So if that's not clear, if it's not visible then what is it? And what's next? Now the frat's obviously had a fight. It's less state money, the state will do less business with it. There will be fewer public competitions, and then the fight for prey is bigger and there are disagreements between them, and then suddenly the prices and the sector you're talking about have fallen. Well, that's it, that's blindly visible. And we obviously don't have anyone here. Neither does Mrs. Klaric, who says we don't have the problem with public procurement because we have the law. It is a new contribution to legal thought in the Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20952	And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20953	Unlike Prime Minister Sanader, I don't think we're in a banana, but I think it's a serious situation and there's still a chance to fix it. But we can't close our eyes. You told your colleagues about the competitions, how to achieve a higher price than planned? So the normal government if it saw that the competition exceeded the amount of insurance funds it would cancel out, but our ministers say, "The competition was and it is an extremely demanding field." It is then an extremely demanding terrain in Slavonia, an extremely demanding territory in Dalmatia. There's an extremely demanding terrain everywhere. And the fact is, prices went up by 100%. And when it's said that I speak based on general observation, it's not a general observation. Here are the papers. Here are the papers as they shared the business. But it's not your job, Vice President, me except we'll point out. It's the work of the authorities who should take this into consideration and give an answer. Not in two years, but the sooner the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20954	Thank you. And another application for an individual debate, distinguished representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20955	Thank you very much to Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed chief state attorney, colleagues and colleagues. Well, maybe it's a shame this report wasn't on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament two months ago, somewhere in September. I believe the debate in the Croatian Parliament would be a little different. Why do I say that? Well, then you probably wouldn't hear here in the Croatian Parliament if there were organized crime or if there were mafias in Croatia. Because only two months ago in Croatia, at least that's what it is to say at the official level, it's hard for those who exercise authority to admit that there is organised crime in Croatia, let alone the mafia. And just a month ago, we were talking about terrorism all of a sudden, and suddenly we were hearing about terrorism, although I personally think it's a bit of an exaggeration of terrorism for what happened. But the fact is, after two months, we have big problems. We're having problems with organized crime, we're having problems with the mob. Suddenly, we can hear from top state officials the link between the mafia and the economy and the link between the mafia and individuals in politics. And something's obviously changed very, very much. It's true that someone said that here at the pay phone when we're looking at this State's Attorney's Office report for 2007, then statisticalally, it can be understood, it can be said that it's an excellent job. We keep saying that the three pillars of power are executive, legislative and judicial, as they are independent. We're talking and so it should be that the attorney general and the State's Attorney is completely independent of politics. And is that so? Did we bring legal regulations here to the Croatian Parliament that the chief state attorney can indeed be independent from the current policy. So we are here in the Croatian Parliament who vote for, or elect the main state attorney, name the main state attorney most of the votes present. Do we want an independent chief state attorney and an independent state attorney's office, indeed independently, not referring to the laws and to numerous actual statements that the lawyership is, that the judiciary is independent. Is it really so if most of us here in the Croatian Parliament vote and appoint a top state attorney? If most in this House are appointed by constitutional judges, then simply I let me as a layman in the judiciary, as a physician put at least a doubt in the independence of both the chief state attorney and, for example, constitutional judges. I am talking about the independence of politics, because the fact is that both the main state attorney and the judges of the Constitutional Court and the State Judiciary Council are elected here in the Croatian Parliament mostly by hand. So, for example, not by a two-thirds majority, but by a majority of those present. Therefore, the executive power regardless of whether it is left or right in that position dictates most of the hands in the Croatian Parliament who will be chief state attorney, who will be judges of the Constitutional Court and who will be members of the Judicial Council. And that's a fact. Therefore, this is the independence of the attorney general, because this is the subject of today's debate, and we could say that, for example, most of us are saying again whether it's left or right, so it proposes to this Croatian Assembly, for example, amending and supplementing the law that would go in the direction of the part of the judicial authority, that is, in the section that talks about the choice of the main state attorney, he chooses and appoints the two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament. But we return shortly before there was an appeal to laws and speeches about how a public tender must be called, how there are criteria for a public tender as correcting an incorrect quote seems to me. On the other hand, it wasn't an incorrect quote and it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. When we talk about public procurement, the fact that it is precisely the possibility of the greatest corruption right now in public procurement. There were so many illegal shops, there were so many controversial events historically looking at 18 years ago, the first war profit, and then the unfortunate conversion and privatisation, so here we have a public procurement. Does the state's attorney's office at lower levels react to questionable public procurement when it comes to millions? I can agree that in individual cases it reacts. But not that it doesn't react enough. If the problem is public procurement, if I as a representative in the Croatian Parliament or any of us, and it is assumed that the representative of the Croatian Parliament has some sort of responsibility both to himself and to those he represents. If he says publicly at a press conference, here in the Croatian Parliament that a public tender is at least questionable, that he respects the legal regulations in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, and that it is millions of values, so at least it is some motive for that lawyer, whether it is the municipal state attorney's office or the county state's attorney's office, to be interested in seeing if there are any elements of a crime, and then I agree and publicly says Mr. Representative, you were wrong. Mr. Representative, you've been spreading lies, misinformation, and you've just been wrong, you haven't been telling the truth. What am I saying now? I have warned in Slavonia and Baranja and Osijek many times just recently about public procurement. And recently I was talking about direct contracts of the million value of the current city government in the city of Osijek. About that, direct contracts published in "The People's News" through a public tender where there was no single reason for a direct contract. About the purchase of equipment, for example for the world shooting championship held, a direct 8 million kuna contract recently came out. Yes, and I also said that this security situation, related to organised crime, I was also talking about that there is no organised crime or mafia without the involvement of individuals and politics. But let's get back to public procurement. Instead of being a municipal state attorney interested in what it's really about, he might have written some kind of application or initiated some kind of investigation into all this. No, he's reading the gossip section. Recently, Mr. State's Attorney, for the second time, I've been to an informed conversation. You know why? Because of a statement that I believe a court case will be closed in a few months and that I believe that in that court proceedings someone will be released. Here, for the second time, I'm going to a conscious conversation. And those visiting local prison politicians, prominent officials of the city of Osijek in prison of those suspected of economic crime, of which the State's Attorney's Office...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20956	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20957	... not a single word. Here, I'll finish. So, I think the report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office looks pretty good, but when it scratches beneath the surface, when it goes down to the local level...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20958	Finish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20959	...at the local level. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, at the time, I cannot be satisfied with the work of the State's Attorney's office because I think they are professional and capable people, and I see the cause in action, precisely the action of politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20960	Thank you. Let me just tell you that we named our state's attorney 3.3.2006. There were 98 deputies in the hall, 97 were for, 1 was abstention. Just so you know how our state's attorney was elected. We have one replica, distinguished representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20961	I could hardly agree, although I understand, of course, the arguments and explanation of my colleague Šišljagić, as well as all of us with the number of detected or undiscovered or prosecuted, at least inspective moves, especially when it comes to local self-government. However, I do not believe that for the very way of choice, that he could in a few radical changes make within this system, in terms of his greater independence. I don't think that's possible. We must do far more to strengthen civil society, to strengthen the general, so to speak, control, the general creation of a single climate, all that is said about how corruption is contained. But what worries me is the fact that if I don't cheat on people working in the State's Attorney's office too often, or at least that's what it seems to us because we don't always have a public feedback, through appearances that stick into our eyes. In the town of Sisak, no single project has been passed without the shadow that lay on it because of either non-compliance with competitions or one-off amounts that are subsequently determined in these competitions. The example of the latest sports hall that has been designed so that Siščeni pays 460 million kuna over 20 years, obtained by the Hypo Bank partners, and the City of Sisak Hypo banka gives its money, i.e. to the citizens 360 million on guard and city companies, to establish that 30 million kunas are needed to repair the dump that was there and so on and I wonder whether the State's Attorney's Office is going to scratch for it because we are not citizens here now in charge of asking whether everything has to be done by law or not. So, I don't often think that behind it stands quite a concrete streak of these or those, but it's possible, but it's even more possible to avoid it if you create an air conditioning that will...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20962	Thank you. You're out of time. Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20963	Thank you very much. So, I wouldn't change it for sure, but it would change the impression of the choice itself. This is what my colleague Jarnjak, vice president of the Croatian Parliament, said, so my remarks did not go to Mr. Bajic and his choice. My suggestion was principled nature, so it's possible, Mr. Jarnjak, and in such a way to make an amendment and supplement the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20964	With the chairman, you can't de-commit. Keep up the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20965	Excuse me, excuse me. So it's principled nature. That might be one of the good things about the appointment, and not just the appointment of the attorney general. As for the sequel to this answer. So, we had in Osijek, here's the public-private partnership of the 850 million teaching gym, so now it's 170 million, so nobody's interested in how to present it to the public, so it's a good thing it was, well, military trucks, so for four years military trucks have been talking about illegal shops related to military trucks. I mentioned direct contracts in the debate how many times I've warned about the violation of the Public Procurement Act. Not to mention "Brodosplit", "Maestra", "Liburnia", "Sun-Hvar", about everything that happened, and still that the public doesn't know the details, which is why they didn't know and why they were so late for criminal charges and running certain court disputes in that small part. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20966	Does the state's attorney want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Mladen Bajic, the attorney general. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20967	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's been an honor, although it's not always a pleasure to hear what you're saying about the State's Attorney's Office report, and I'm sure a lot of things will be respected in the next period, even if someone wrote this report. Indeed, the statistics on the work of the State's Attorney's Office are good, excellent and you've noticed that well. But from these very negative remarks of greater expectations in the work of the State's Attorney's Office, I understand something else. I realize that this is actually a trust in the State's Attorney's Office, because the State's Attorney's office should, in fact, solve more or less all problems or at least have general oversight for everyone. For the time being, this is not the role of the State's Attorney's Office by constitutional definition or by definition of the State's Attorney's Office Act. Of course we are responsible for everything that is not done or done in the criminal area and also for the protection of state property. However, I have initially said a few words about this chain of state repression and I am still behind it. I'm saying that we would have achieved results including the State's Attorney's Office and not only if it wasn't self-secret, but trust me, we're the greatest critics, much bigger than you were here today, no matter who answered today's word. But I say responsibly, and I stand behind it, that until the entire chain of repression is established as expected, neither the State's Attorney's Office can have those results as the worst critics think it is, be sure. And as for the influence of politics on the work of the State's Attorney's office, I'm talking about myself first of all, I don't have that kind of influence, and I won't have it while I'm in this position, so be sure of it. That's my responsibility. Now, a few more words about what this report should look like. The Law on the State's Attorney's Office states in Article 4 that the State's Attorney's Office report to the Croatian Parliament should contain information on the work on legal issues, on the status of staff and proposals to improve work. We worked hard, I'm not saying we did it right, we tried to meet all these legal requirements and what we're asked to do under the State's Attorney's Law. I'm not sure we did it, I'm saying we tried to do everything we could best, and it represents a report on the work of those 500 and something of the state's attorneys or deputies who are working on it. About half or half of it on criminal cases, and half of it on civil cases. What does the State's Attorney's Office do, and what is its current position in relation to police work? It is true that in certain specific cases, specific cases in which the police and the State's attorneys work together, it directs the work of the police, only in specific cases in which they work together. That's how it speaks and the information spoken of by the esteemed representative Ostojić when he said there was a protocol on co-operation. The next law to be passed in the Croatian Parliament in the next few months will address this issue starting with the new Criminal Procedure Act, but in particular the Law on Police Powers, in which the position of both the state attorney and police in the work on concrete cases will be put in place for the first time, and will be known when and why they assume responsibility. The state's attorney's office is not and cannot take responsibility for the criminal charges filed, I am responsible for that. The state's attorney's office is not a body of general oversight because it doesn't walk around the city of these 200 people or 300 of them in the penitentiary departments and control what's going on there. The very fact that the State Attorney's Office has been involved in the work of a number of state bodies in the sense that they are asking for something, cooperates with them all in order to better criminal proceedings or to work on the protection of state property does not mean that it assumes responsibility for their work. You have to take care of that. We are responsible for what we do, but not for the work of others. Careful reading of our reports could be determined in earlier years what we proposed, look, check, I never lie, and especially not in the Croatian Parliament, what our proposals were, as we talked about. Of course, all together we must synergyly achieve this to change the legislative frameworks, to strengthen staffing all those involved in the detection of criminal offences, the persecution of criminal offences, the trial, etc. But you have to worry about the fact that every year from the State's Attorney's Office but also the courts, a lot of people go to other better places, not just paid, it's not just a matter of money, believe me, I don't think it's about money, it's about something else. People who work in the State's Attorney's Office, most of them honestly and consciously do it, take responsibility for social trust me, thinks about how to jump all possible traps and process the object that we know they did, but we don't have enough evidence. These are frustrations that are very difficult for people, including me. Public procurement. I have to mention public procurement. Public procurement is indeed a perception of the Croatian public and others, that there is crime in public procurement. Right, it's perception. In addition to the criminal application mentioned by the esteemed representative Pancic and which I will check within the next few days and inform him of that because he is the applicant, but also all those who are the applicant of the application or are interested in the conduct of certain cases, may request directly from us or through the Ministry of Justice, depending on the position they appear in. As far as public procurement is concerned, we requested meetings with all public procurement services, with the first-degree commission, with the second-degree public procurement commission, whose reports are here the other day before the Croatian Parliament. Ask me, have they ever filed any criminal charges or information on public procurement suspicions with the State's Attorney's office? They never did. So you know right away. Except for the individual information from the media or respected representative Pancic. As far as specific items are concerned I can't really talk about them here since the items are still or are... or they've never been informed, I'm talking about them. [[You don't understand.]] But I say all those who are interested in the case, especially parliamentary representatives, can get information depending on their position and role in all this. As far as organised crime and corruption are concerned, significant progress has been made over the past few years and even more than we expected at a given time. Several of the operational actions carried out in the seventh and eighth years, in our opinion, have produced very good results and even this last operation that has had a lot of criticism in the public, and today someone has mentioned why only the students of the verdict. Because the verdicts are made in the settlement investigation. The right procedure will begin only after the indictment has been filed, and we find the verdicts and settlements at this stage very much to end the transfer of management successfully and that the indictment would be strong and supported by arguments, confessions, etc. As for reacting to the pressures of the state's attorney's office by the public, etc., we don't respond to people's pressures, we react to facts and evidence. Only criminal charges supported by facts and evidence that can be justified and based on which we can obtain results and success in court are relevant to us. Everything else doesn't matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20968	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue at 15 hours with the 7th Point Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the state budget, etc. He wishes you all a good time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20969	Sixth, Annual report on the work of the State Lawyers in 2007, Carrier: State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, which reads: "The Annual report on the work of the State's attorneys in 2007 is accepted." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by the majority of votes 76, votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 34 against. What? Please. I'm giving it to a lawyer. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, which reads: "The Annual report on the work of the State's attorneys in 2007 is accepted." The breach of the Rules of Procedure is looking for Mr. Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20970	Mr. President. According to Article 230. The rules of procedure after the results of the vote cannot be re-voted. ... Yes, yes, it was the result of the vote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20971	It has not yet been established because the MP intervened on time, so we can consider that there was no first vote, so I am therefore putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The report was accepted by most votes with 78 votes in favour, no abstentions and 37 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20972	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session. It is on the agenda - Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 for the needs of national minorities The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. State Secretary of the Central State Administration Antun Palaric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20973	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After the Croatian Parliament passed the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Croatian Government and all state administration bodies agreed to the application of this law and before you the Annual Report for 2007 was drawn up according to the methodology set out in the debate and after the debate on the Annual Report for 2007. We also acknowledge in the report that the International Community has made progress in the progress of the report on the protection of the rights of national minorities, in the field of the application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, in all its segments. Of course, the objective of the full achievement of the Constitutional Law has not yet been reached, it is one process which, although at the final stage, still takes time to protect the members of the national minorities to the fullest extent possible. This report on the entire 249 pages details the rights that have been achieved and, in particular, the expenditure on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. It is therefore seen that the Croatian state has not spared nor tried nor money to fully or to the fullest extent to exercise the rights of members of national minorities arising from the constitutional law. It would be an exaggeration if I could explain to you, the esteemed MPs and MPs, every single item and every quote in this report, because it would take a lot of time. I will just point out that by acting on the request of the Croatian Parliament, even before the summer, the government found a final report and sent it early with the intention of having it discussed earlier in 2008 and also in the first part of the year when we sum up all data from all bodies, in particular reports from units of local and regional self-government, we will make it available to the Croatian Parliament so that we can further intervene in the field of protection of national minorities. I defend the full report, but I will put emphasis on the activities of the Central State Administration Office, so we have created assumptions for the registration and free operation of the Council of National Minorities, representatives of national minorities, we have ensured representation in representative bodies, executive bodies, we have passed all the laws that must ensure representation. And after the next local elections in the executive bodies, we therefore guarantee in the environments where members of national minorities are entitled to a proportionate representation, at least representation at the level of the deputy mayor or deputy municipal chief, unless the mayor has already been elected through the elections itself. I need to put a special emphasis on implementing the National Roma Programme. This is a problem for all of Europe and Croatia in this part is making great efforts and detail of the report that has taken place and what results have been achieved in the application of this programme. I would stress that, in addition to providing funding, which is significantly more than the years before and the institutions, the state authorities of the national minority office, the Alliance for National Minorities, have carried out strong activities throughout the year, as well as in other bodies special units, organisational units that must work to improve the rights of national minorities, as well as in the Central State Administration Office. The Department for National Minorities was founded, and the chief was elected, and here is a colleague with us to get the impression that this important problem is being discussed in the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, we will listen carefully to the comments and proposals for the composition of the report for this year and for the direction of further promotion of the rights of national minorities, and we ask you to accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20974	Thank you. The committee's rapporteurs. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. On behalf of the board, Mr. Agent Danesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20975	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, representatives of the government. The Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities discussed at the 13th session of the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of national minorities. This report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 17 July this year. The Committee considered the report as a parent body in accordance with Article 71. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate found that the report shows that significant efforts have been made during 2007 to implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which is seen as being made to increase the allocation of funds in the state budget for the needs of national minorities, as well as in the numerous activities undertaken by the Government and other state bodies to implement it. It is noted, however, that the difference between the normative solutions and the declared policy on the one hand and what is being realised in practice is still noticeable and that it is therefore necessary for all competent authorities, both at the state and at the local and regional county level, to strengthen activities in order to ensure consistent implementation of minority law policies in practice. It is pointed out that the practice of implementing the Constitutional Law as well as the facts of the report under consideration demonstrates that particular attention should be paid to the opening of difficulties in the exercise of these minority rights in the coming period. Official use of the language and letters of national minorities, access to means of public communication, representation of minorities in executive and administrative bodies, representation of national minorities in state administration bodies and judicial authorities, the achievement of the role of councils and representatives of national minorities, in accordance with the Constitutional Law and the continuation of intensive activities in the achievement, the achievement of the national programme for Roma and the action plan of the decade, the inclusion of Roma 2005/2015. When it comes to the official use of the language and letters of national minorities, it has been warned of the fact that the use of language and letters of national minorities, in addition to judicial and administrative authorities, shows a tendency to decline, that the number of requests for issuing bilingual ID cards in 2007 is reduced compared to 06 years, and that there are still units of local self-government that have not resolved the issue of a law of guaranteed bilingualism in which difficulties sometimes occur in the environments where bilingualism has already been established as a long-standing tradition, in brackets such as. (use of Czech language in the Daruvar area) It is similar with the preservation of traditional names and labels in areas traditionally populated by members of national minorities. It has been said that there are cases, although not in large numbers, that traditional names of individual settlements have been changed, so in the coming period it should be initiated to return earlier names, not only because the right to preserve traditional names of settlements, streets and squares is guaranteed the right of national minorities, but also to create a climate of trust and interethnic tolerance as essential assumptions for the full integration of minorities and the preservation of the multiethnic character of Croatian society. It is also estimated that access to national minorities through public communications is still not satisfactory in particular when it comes to electronic media. The presence of information in the language and letter of national minorities in public media in most minority languages is minimal, so further efforts must be made in accordance with the constitutional law and recommendations of the Council of Europe on the application of the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages. As regards the rights of national minorities to represent themselves in the executive and administrative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, it has been pointed out that amendments to the laws on local and regional self-government and the adoption of the Law on Officials and Landowners in local and regional self-government this year have created all legal assumptions for the resolution of this problem. It remains that the supervision of local self-government, which is within the scope of the central government within the shortest time limit, determines which municipalities, cities or counties have not covered these issues with their regulatory acts and which are required under the law, and that the necessary steps are taken in this regard. The new local elections held in May next year, according to the board, are an opportunity for this minority right to be realised in practice soon. With regard to the insufficient representation of national minorities in state administration authorities and judicial authorities, the debate stressed that the adoption of appropriate normative acts created a full legal framework and that it is now a matter of concrete measures to address the problem as soon as possible. In order to achieve the necessary steps, reception plans, competitions and appointments under the judicial authorities and authorities of the State administration should be monitored and monitored continuously. It is estimated that in order to address all the problems mentioned above, it is extremely significant that a special department for national minorities has been established within the central state office, in which transactions relating to minority elections and elections for councils and representatives of national minorities, supervision of the statutes of municipalities, cities and counties in the minority rights section, and monitoring the employment of members of national minorities in state administration bodies and local and regional self-government. Discussing the functioning of the Council of National Minorities, the committee members estimated that their work was still far from what was meant by the Constitutional Law. Although a large part of the report is dedicated to the councils of the national minorities, it is said that there is a lack of analysis of the causes of the observed problems. These councils are designed as advisory bodies composed of elected representatives of national minorities to participate in public life and to manage local affairs. The report does not have sufficient data on the extent to which the Council has used its constitutional law established the right to propose measures to improve the position of national minorities to which they were involved in the work of the local self-government body and whether those bodies have consulted them in the process of adopting acts governing issues of interest for the national minority. The fact is, as the debate also stressed, that the second mandate of these minority bodies is already under way, and that it is high time to clarify what the problem is. Lack of necessary material, financial assumptions for work, non-compliance or lack of interest, either on the side of the council, or on the side of local self-government. As regards the concept of the report under consideration, it was concluded that progress has been made in relation to the previous periods. However, it has been noted that further improvements are needed to satisfy such reports with its basic purpose, which is not only the finding of facts and problems. An analytical evaluation approach is needed to show what is and what is not done, which is the cause of the problems identified in the implementation of certain provisions of the constitutional law, and that the Government and the competent national authorities and bodies of the units of local and regional self-government need and intend to make the identified problems resolved. After the debate, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion. Under one, a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 for the needs of national minorities is adopted. Under two, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to prepare a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities for the next period in accordance with the observations and proposals made in the debate in a way that assesses the results achieved and, with a preliminary analysis of the causes of not implementing certain legal provisions, propose measures to eliminate the difficulties observed in its implementation. Thank you very much. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20976	Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia? For the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20977	I deeply believe that no one will interrupt me. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Well, clearly, I don't know why either. Your Honor, gentlemen, the MPs. If everything in these reports is only about money, which is the emphasis in this report and if everything is devoid of soul, the ruling team will always be able to say that it does everything to improve or improve the position of minorities. But again, on the other hand, I hold that position from year to year will weaken. It will be increasingly miserable and members of national minorities will become increasingly more and more difficult to express their national names, but on the other hand, it will increasingly support those in power. What do you need to do? First, I personally hold that members of the national minorities must first be returned or given so-called. A double-right voice. That's the only way I'm thinking we can avoid getting members of the national minorities. At a time when a member of a national minority faces a ballot box, when he must vote, so he must plead as a Serb, as an Italian, as a Hungarian, as a Slovak, as a Czech, as a Roma, etc. There is always a brake in the individual, because he thinks in himself why or Istrajan, why someone should count someone. Clearly, it is no racism at all, but I believe it is a kind of ghettoisation and that it leads to a kind of marginalisation of members or members of national minorities as well. It is also true that what Croatia has at this time, that even eight representatives of minorities are represented in Parliament at this time. This or such representation of national minorities in one Parliament is not known. No Parliament knows that. As well as no one on the other hand knows anywhere outside Croatia that someone is entering a parliament with no more than 300 votes won. And the first thing that should change either today or some future parliamentary majority is that two-thirds means 66% of Parliament's mandate changes that kind of representation. It means going back to five terms as it was until 2003, but that clearly minorities have so-called minorities. a double right to vote. What is the position of the national minorities? First, what I think is that the position of national minorities cannot in any way be defined or expressed solely by money. For example. In Istria, we experience them as an indigenous people, and they record, and they mark our pre-war, wartime past. They suffered an enormous injustice after World War II, and no one in Istria is experiencing a minority today. They made an immeasurable contribution to NOB and today, let's say, to identify them with some of the fascists, etc. It would be embarrassing. An exodus that was emptied after World War II by one Pula, an old Poreč, old Umag, my Buzet, where after World War II in the old city, all four people remained of Italian nationality. It is something that today in these Istrian spaces simply forces us not to share anyone else simply for you people's national belongings to Croats, Italians, Serbs, Montenegrins etc. Unfortunately, in some areas, this kind of division still exists today. I am also happy and I am proud that in Istria or Istria, which Istria did not leave after 1991 we can freely say no Serb, no Italian, no Montenegrin, etc. Unfortunately, it wasn't a rule elsewhere in this country. To be clear, I was exposed to brutal aggression and destruction because of the events in Croatia, which is why I am normally most guilty and only guilty of the Milosevic regime. No Serbs, but Milosevic, one Jovic, Seselj, Milutinovic, Karadzic, Adjic, what I know, etc., but also Serbian leaders in Croatia who in '91. They didn't act like their ancestors in '41. and those who did not choose the other side. those Croatian parties that did not perform from these nationalist positions. Unfortunately, the Serbs were in '91. Gotoizalise, they were Milosevic's instrument and his Karlobag-Virovitica policy, as it is already called Karlovac. Serbs in '91. They did not lead an Istrian policy that no Croat should fall hair off his head, as we have led politics in Istria that no Serb should fall hair off his head. On the contrary, after '95. Some others have been looking forward to it, after the destruction of those houses, etc. to clear that space. In 2008, we have no choice but to allow those people who left those premises to return to their hearths. It will be difficult, but without it clearly difficult to be co-existence. It is also clear that Serbian tanks from one Belgrade, Novi Sad, etc. who had been filled with flowers before had gone the way of Vukovar. What happened there like I said this morning about this pay phone that I'm experiencing is genocide. The genocide occurred clearly not only in Vukovar but in one Srebrenica, but as the court in The Hague did not condemn Serbia because of Srebrenica to genocide, I doubt that in the Croatian case it would be different and that the Republic of Croatia would succeed in its request. If that is the case and we are all aware that this will be the case, and Croatia and Serbia are neighbours, we are directed at each other. Perhaps you should consider sitting down at the table and giving up both of these claims against Serbia, Serbia's towards Croatia. Whatever someone thinks here in this assembly and no matter what these.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20978	Mr. Cain, I'm gonna have to interrupt you anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20979	And to these screams. That's what's going to happen eventually.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20980	Please. This is the Constitutional Law Implementation Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20981	If we finally gave up. I don't need to take away my word because you know I'm right 101%.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20982	I'm warning you now. Mr. Cain, listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20983	And if anyone in this assembly is aware of what's going to happen, it's the chairman behind my back, Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20984	Thank you very much. I take your word. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20985	I'm not leaving, somebody throw me out.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20986	I took your word. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20987	Yeah. So what do we do now? I asked you not to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20988	You can't talk off topic, completely off topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20989	I am not talking about the situation, but I am talking about the situation or better about implementing the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20990	Mr. Caine, please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20991	And I'm talking a little bit higher than what I got from your party's ranks this morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20992	I'm interrupting the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20993	You don't have to do this for me. I'll get off the phone. But I assure you, and you are very well aware that in a year or two or three, this is exactly what I am warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20994	Incredibly, something amazing is that every elemental rule of parliamentary democracy with one parliamentary violence like this that you, Mr Cain, are doing, is being violated. I'm supposed to miss and tolerate breaking my rules of procedure to unsuspecting borders. And how do you imagine democracy parliamentary? How is it possible that you are asking me to speak out of the question, to say whatever you want and not to obey me, then not to me, but to the Rules of Procedure who has to warn the MP when he's out of the picture? What difference does it make to a war that was in the '90s, 1991? What do Croatia's lawsuits have to do with Serbia, possibly Serbia's countersuit? So please be nice, so stick to tolerance. So what does that have to do with the Constitutional Law Report? ... So what does this have to do with all the possible historical evaluations, the 90s reminiscents on this subject? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Never mind. So stick to parliamentary democracy. ... Well, this isn't it, this is the Croatian Parliament, this is the parliament of a country. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can't talk, no one can talk whenever they want, no matter how much they like and what they're supposed to do with this business order, everything is foreseen. So don't do it that way. Why are you leading to one of these situations? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you either don't want to understand or you don't understand. ... Let's move on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You don't recognize the Rules of Procedure, you don't recognize business order, you don't recognize everything. You only admit your will to speak whenever you want and what you want. ... Let's go, Club of Representatives of the SDSS Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20995	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Associates. I will not because I am not interested in this matter that you see bearing the title Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law only talk about the report and I will not speak more explicitly about the position of minority communities and that is because the report here is given independently of the amount of material indicative and in a way that I want to make comments here on how to report this matter, that I do not enter into other things. I don't want or want, possibly that, and I can't at least not in the main details or the main content dispute what this report says. I'm going to say a few sentences here about what this report doesn't say and in my opinion it should say inside. I'm going to do a little reduction that I'm guessing won't diminish to say the main content or the essential content of what it says in the Constitutional Law. When we talk about the implementation of the Constitutional Law and even when we talk about the Constitutional Law, then I think that the most important participation, employment and what is part of cultural autonomy. That is, we all know that I do not need to be very convinced of this very important thing when it comes to the Republic of Croatia and its commitment and intention to say so and to the same extent when it comes to the interest of minority members of the minority, speaking about their position or speaking about the rights of minority members. A little while ago, Mr. Secretary of State said something like this about an assessment of law enforcement, progress. So progress and I agree to that. In all segments, it is said, in all segments of progress. I have this kind of disagreement. Progress in all segments and yes and no. At the level of normative regulation, I'll agree, yes, and at the level of practice and implementation, I don't think so. And the third thing that's said here, progress to the extent necessary or to be different, progress to the possible extent. I don't think so, so it hasn't been achieved. Now, I'm gonna say why I qualify like that or why I talk like that. When we talk about this past period, and I could extend the assessment or observation in time from the adoption of the Constitutional Law to now, and it's been many years, then we can finally, we can conclude that we can now draw from one fact about the success of the implementation of the constitutional law. The facts that happened or that we met this year in 2008. The government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted an action plan in which it writes or shows that accelerated measures are necessary to implement the constitutional law. And if he needed an action plan, it means that there is a dissatisfaction with the implementation of constitutional law provisions probably by all objective standards. And especially if it needs to be done quickly now. It's a good-will assessment. It's an assessment of the good consciousness that things aren't going well. And it's sort of a score and these correlations with Brussels, so it's kind of a correlation with what we're in a club with the Prime Minister, with the government, our colleagues talking about. But now those relationships don't matter that much. It is important that we come to the conclusion that we cannot be completely satisfied with what is called the implementation of constitutional law. And I think it's a good foundation that we can change our practice better tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in some future time. I think it's just that somehow we can't get that out of our minds. Now, this correlation with the report we got here. We've got one material that has a lot of pages. We've got material in which, I repeat, all the facts are probably correct. But what I think is missing, and that's what I'd say if I didn't have a better expression, problematicly, what is the situation in the key segments. Participation, employment, achieving cultural autonomy, media access. So, in my opinion, that condition should now be drawn. And besides, give an answer to the question as far as possible, what we must do, who will be in charge and as long as we can realize it. I'm satisfied, of course I can't dispute a significant figure of money that is allocated for the needs of minorities. But what is the spirit of this constitutional law is, therefore, improving the position of minority communities in all segments. You can't measure just with money, even if they're four times the amount we now have. What I think about or what I'm unhappy with right now, we are now, yesterday, scheduled for a seminar on Monday. We are in the phase of education of people on the need to implement constitutional law on how to implement and proposition to implement the provisions of the constitutional law. And we still need people who finally have to do it, we still have to convince them that respect and implementation of constitutional law is a state interest. And I said that, we know that, in fact, it's been many years since he was brought in. I'm fully aware of the process in which we're going, but if we're at this stage I think it would be quite good, healthy to say so, to write it in a report of this kind and write it that way. And then we'll be clear about what to do next. Don't make me root someone here or someone rebuke me. That's not the point. I very much hope that our common intensity is let's see what's not worth it, let's see how we fix it and let's see how far we can get it. It's a key thing that I don't see in this report, and it's a key thing that makes me unsatisfactory with this report. And of course, I don't think there's anything wrong with a secretary of state or people sitting here, or people who aren't sitting here, and they're working on it. No, I don't. I think it's the responsibility of the government and the responsibility of this House to establish the proportions of a different task in this matter. Because, and I'm going to say that in the end, in the implementation of the constitutional law, and it is important questions for citizens whose position is vulnerable should not be reported in this way. And if we want to make a move. I don't underestimate money, I don't underestimate changes in normative regulation, I don't underestimate... elected to the minority council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what's more important is whether we get into the lera or drive at least at first speed. I'd like to talk in the report about these speeds, metaphorically speaking more than some other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20996	Thank you. HDZ club, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20997	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the report on the implementation of the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and the spending of funds secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 for the needs of national minorities in relation to reports so far. We can say that this report is methodologically different. It results in and is visible, parallel data for the previous year are visible and for the purpose of facilitating the monitoring of progress in the exercise of the rights of national minorities established by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. This report is to the maximum extent appropriate to the requirements of the new methodology. It shows that the Republic of Croatia is committed to protecting and enabling the exercise of the rights of national minorities and that there has been a significant improvement in the exercise of the rights set out in the Constitutional Law, which was eventually assessed by the Council for National Minorities. It also provides information on the resources provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for different purposes, from education, cultural programmes, Roma programmes, etc. So the report shows that 84 million 650 thousand and 270 kuna were spent in 2006, while 131 million 527 thousand and 332 kuna were spent, representing an increase of 55%. Protection of the rights of members of national minorities is aimed not only at protecting languages and letters as essential features of national minorities but also at protecting cultural diversity through cultural activities and participation in political and public life. The Republic of Croatia shall ensure that the special rights and freedoms of members of national minorities they enjoy individually or together with other persons belonging to the same national minority or together with members of other national minorities. Especially when we talk about serving in our own language and in private and in public use, and in official use. Raising, language education and a letter serving national minorities, using their signs and symbols, cultural autonomy, maintaining development and showing their own culture, and preserving and protecting their cultural goods and traditions. The right to manifest your faith and to establish religious communities with other members of that faith. The right to access means of public communication and to carry out public communications activities, self-organisation and association in order to achieve common interests. Representativeship in representative bodies at national and local level and in administrative and judicial bodies. Participation of members of national minorities in public life as well as protection against any activity that threatens or threatens their survival, exercise of rights and freedoms. In the exercise of those rights, members of national minorities point to certain problems and problems certainly exist. However, the Republic of Croatia has opted for determination in the exercise of the rights of national minorities, so that the exercise of the rights of national minorities is at the highest level and in accordance with international and national regulations. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20998	Thank you. For the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus-Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u20999	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government. In front of us is the report, it seems thicker than the past, and judging by how these reports on the implementation of the Constitutional Law of the Kidney, and by some other elements, it would be concluded that the state of protection of human, or national minority rights is progressing rapidly in the Republic of Croatia. Well, in some segments, it's probably true. However, as pointed out on behalf of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, the fact is that the discrepancy between the normative framework and real practice is still too great to be able to conclude with satisfaction that we have adopted democratic standards of functioning both in theory and in practice. Of course, a country that has gone through a war like ours, a country that has the legacy of a communist dictatorship, is not and cannot solve all its problems quickly. But the fact is that every country that keeps itself democratic, uses minority rights standards as a lacmus paper of its success in the democratic process. I remember the time when our prominent members and representatives of the national minorities were stalking the Secret Service in the '90s, when they were lying to us, when they were breaking into our organization, trying to split us up when they accused us falsely, transited through the media for political purposes. I remember a time when we could not use the adjective of the people because we were told in the state administration's office that there was only one people in the Republic of Croatia and only what it had to do with the Croats could bear an adjective of the people. And no one else does. So when we said, "But watch out in the meantime the Serbian People's Party is registered, how is that possible?" Then it was said, "It's a political compromise." I remember these times and thank God that they are far behind us and thank God that there is a whole system that is trying to get these atavis out of our society and that we are slowly aware that even within one day we are all members of some of the minorities regardless of whether it's ethnic, whether it's cultural, linguistic, social, sexual, or any other minority. The Croatian People's Party has been repeating itself since its very beginnings, and while the parties will repeat that the standard of protection of minority rights is a standard that recognises the purpose of the state's existence. According to the statistical indicators of this report, we can find a whole series of progress, but still the report that we receive once a year shows a high level of ignoring in many units of local self-government when it comes to respecting the Constitutional Law and, in particular, in that principle, the representatives of national minorities in local self-government units, in administrative bodies, in representative bodies, and this report shows. Although I do not agree with what Mr Cain said or what he intended to say and what could be seen from his introduction is not entirely true that the discussion of Croatia and Serbia's mutual lawsuits is not a context for discussion of rights both Croats and Serbs, Croats in Serbia and Serbs in Croatia. If we ignore it, we will not be right because it is indeed true, but smart state policy can and must avoid situations in which a trial of this type will affect the position of national minorities in both countries. Serbs in Croatia must not feel the consequences of the lawsuit, as neither the Croats in Serbia should feel the consequences of the countersuit. It is the task of a responsible political elite in Croatia and then Serbia. However, several open issues remain and even some stemming from the ruling party's pre-election demands. I'll remind you of the Bosniak question. The question still has not been resolved as to what people are called members of the national minority, which in our national police force many still lead as Muslims. And in order to avoid confusion, we can talk about this issue as much as we want, but the fact is that a different solution to this issue is because Muslims as a nationality no longer exist anywhere, significantly strengthens the Bosniak national minority. This political establishment of the ruling majority has yet to come up with or decide and that is not good. Equally, the issue of additional voting rights, not double but complementary voting rights, because it speaks of positive discrimination, not privilege, is a question that we can run from, and we will certainly do it for a while but not forever. Who doesn't realize that this is a democratisation mechanism that will eventually lead to the increased mutual trust of the majority with minority nations, it has problems with its own identity. I am sorry that some of the information and reports that we own in the club do not entirely match the spirit of certain sections of this report, above all, when it comes to the funds spent on Roma employment. Our intel says it's far more authorized than it's been spent. We see from these statistics that the number of co-workers in the follow-up is increasing, that the number of Roma seasonal employees still remains a painful fact, the truth that no single member of the Roma minority is working in the entire state administration. I will remind the decade of Roma and the national programme has been in effect for three years. In three years, we haven't moved a inch on that. Furthermore, the problems of the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia are multiple, but where we have no movement, and this is a matter of health care, and this is a matter of legal certainty, and you can see that we do not have a single Roma officer and that we do not have any trained staff in health. Would it not be wise and good to concentrate a part of your strength precisely on the education of people, the training of people members of the national minority who will directly work on adjudicating these two major problems. Who better to do this than Romi himself? Recently, the first Croatian-Roma and Roma-Croatian dictionary was presented to the public in Zagreb on 5 November, and this is a major event in the history of the Roma people throughout the Balkans and throughout Europe. It is the first such dictionary of Roma in Croatia and the language spoken by the vast majority of Roma in Europe. At the promotion of this dictionary were the most prominent Croatian philosophers, they were prominent romologists from Rotterdam and Paris and she was representative of the Ministry of Culture because the Ministry of Culture, with the Council of National Minorities, was the only government institution that supported this demanding project, so neither the chairman of the National Committee and head of the Decade for Roma nor the Office for National Minorities, and about the other ministries not to speak. That's not good. On November 5th, the International Union of Roma believed or not because the first Croatian, Croatian-Romanian and Roma-Croatian dictionary was declared the World Day of Roma Language in Zagreb. So, exactly what happened in Croatia was determined by a stone medium in Roma culture, at least in language culture for the whole world. I hope that we will understand and accept and thank all representatives of the Croatian Parliament who have signed the Charter of the International Day of the Roma Language. Furthermore, yesterday I mentioned a problem that plagues 20,000 people who found themselves in '91. the years in occupied areas and had pension solutions and had the status of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. No one to move their fingers to help them. 20,000 people were humiliated because they were not granted the right to retire, that time they spent under occupation. They didn't have any alternative choice. There was no Croatian pension fund. This is a question that should also be resolved because it is a fundamentally existential issue for people above all in areas of special state concern, for old people many of whom are now dying because they are of such a high age. For he who retired in the 1990s or the '80s or the '80s today is very many years old and should not ignore them. In this entire report of a hundred, 250 pages mention specific names on page 24 of this report, representing national minorities and wonders. On page 157 in two passports, the great laudes of the Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister. Because there's the Roma thanking them for everything they've done to improve their social standing. So should this really mean that this report is not supposed to pass without laud, the president of the National Committee who does not even want to respond to the letter of the promoter of the first Croatian-Romanian, Roma-Croatian dictionary. The Croatian People's Party Club will support this report, but we continue to warn that too much of the issue of protection of human and minority rights is seen as a matter of statistics and spent money, that we are not talking too much about the content and real effects of the measures. If we've invested so many millions, can we measure what the real situation is? Can we ask these members of the national minorities how they feel, how they feel in the country that is their home country? It would be a real lacmus paper and no matter what their answer is, it should never be taken badly even if it's negative. It's always an invitation to be even better and more proactive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21000	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Agent Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21001	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to get involved in this debate with a few more notes, possibly questions. This report shows the detailed situation in the area of individual municipalities, the state of the county level and the overall one review. In my opinion, however, it is possible to think that in future reports and analyses the problem should try to demonstrate the level of municipalities and levels of state administration. Because in public, many people still have one view of the municipality as a long-standing institution and what it looked like and functioned in prewar years. I have to say that the municipalities in relation to the former municipalities are very different, so to speak in many elements, because then the state administration was actually in the municipality, and now the municipality by me 50% or maybe more than 50% of its activities is directing, or working with a particular communal problem as its priority task. While all that remains related to the exercise of citizens' rights from various permits of the Tax Administration and everything else is not actually a municipality anymore. It is the state administration, and citizens are exercising their rights, i.e. they should do it as painlessly as possible in the institutions of the state administration. In particular, I also think of Baranja, from where I am from, at municipal levels, I don't see it in documents, first of all in the Statutes any more serious or larger problem if there is any possible and there is no realisation of it as it is written then it's the level of state administration, and in this case it's just the city of Beli Manastir where there are state administration institutions. Then I would further expand this problem, i.e. suggest that data is analysed or may be collected both in large systems and systems such as HEP, Croatian Waters, County Road Administration or State Roads Administration, etc., public notary etc. where the minority population lives, I think it's a very, very big help for them or the Pensions Office, the Health Insurance Office, etc. It is a great help for them if there are a number of officials in those institutions who have a member, not even a member, but that he has an official who speaks that language, he does not have to be Hungarian, but that he knows Hungarian regardless of what nationality he belongs to. This is the practical part of achieving the rights of national minorities. I have been having conversations and praying these days, and I sincerely hope that it will come true because I estimate that an official with a public notary who will work in the White Manastir of 3, 4 as many as there are there can do much, much more to help these people who are talking daily from desert debates to all possible other problems can help far more than I know which provision of statutes or laws or anything. Here, so much for that problem quite well-intentioned. As regards the position of the Council of National Minorities, I would also, when considering the report for the 6th year, have pointed to this problem when the law changes to try to regulate, in some ways, the importance of the Council of National Minorities in those environments where these minorities are the majority. I mean, that's one special problem. If that minority is the majority, and that national council is from, so to speak, the lists of political options, then it has virtually no special importance whatsoever because only the council is already composed so that it takes care of the rights of national minorities. If this is another political option, then it represents a certain opposition and replaces some kind of political party or opposition in the same national minority. So, I think there are other problems and material nature and arguments and pressures and so on. As far as the material location of these materials is concerned, it is very nice to understand what these relationships are like. There I could really say that the councils of national minorities, they are mostly city councils and people who are in these councils or are employed or are only members of the best pass in Osijek, and especially in the city of Zagreb where in one city and another there may be between, I now know this information about the Hungarian national minority, 800 to 1,000 members, perhaps in Zagreb something more and more which have twenty or more revenues from the budget of the city of one and the other, than it can be ensured, in the municipality where I am chief, where more than 42% are Hungarians. There is a council and we provide them with tens of thousands compared to several hundred thousand in Zagreb, and in the end, if we fight, they don't get it either. Therefore, this moment for national minorities would be very good if these funds could be concentrated in one place, and then, according to some acceptable criteria of assistance and given to the work of the councils, because it turns out that some really councils cannot work because they have minimum resources, these materials make it possible to conclude this. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21002	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21003	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, here was a brief discussion, somewhat polymic, and we even had disputes about what we're saying in the report, that the report should write something else. Ladies and gentlemen, the report says exactly what needs to be done because the Croatian Government has the right to point out and even boast about what it has achieved in this field. I'm just going to mention the insurance funds from last year's 84 million years ago to now 131 million. Therefore, an increase of 55% required that many other projects be taken away so that projects concerning the protection of national minorities could be provided, as well as about the Roma. It is not true that there are no Roma in the police, there are three, we hope there will be more of them, but this is also a step forward from earlier and it is not true that Croatia has not respected the fact that a dictionary has been published in Croatia. The dictionary was funded by the Croatian Government with 155,000 kunas, and a significant number of books were purchased by the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Science and the Council for National Minorities. As regards the methodology of the report, I must say that the draft report was discussed by members of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament and that there was no comment on the draft before it was referred to the government's procedure, it can always be better, always that report should be complemented in the second year I believe that the results will also be better in terms of representation of members of national minorities, especially in the executive bodies because we have prescribed, I would say a single mechanism of insurance of representation at the level of municipal mayors and mayors. Some things should really be reconsidered. Indeed, the Council of National Minorities in the middle of which national minorities make up most of it makes no sense, and probably the author of constitutional law didn't imagine it that way, but that's what it says, and we have to apply it for now. I thank all those who have supported this report and who have adhered to the agenda and we have received a proposal to conclude the committee, for us it is acceptable, is a new commitment to the government, but we accept the proposed conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21004	Thank you. I'm closing this agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21005	Seven, Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 for the needs of national minorities. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting in conclusion in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, which reads: "The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of national minorities is accepted.". Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? This report was accepted by a majority vote with 108 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 3 against. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has proposed the conclusion that the applicant has adopted in the debate. This conclusion, which the Committee proposes, reads: "It is the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities for the next period prepares, in accordance with the observations and proposals made in the debate, in a way that assesses the results achieved and, with a preliminary analysis of the causes of non-implementation of certain legal provisions, proposes measures to eliminate the difficulties observed in its implementation.". Please, let's get on with it. Let us vote on the proposal for this conclusion, the Committee on National Minorities. The result? The proposal was adopted by a majority vote with 109 votes, 2 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21038	The 9th point for now, for today, we're going to skip, so the 10th point, we're going to move on with it now. - Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency for 2007, Carrier: Croatian Small Economy Agency You accepted the proposal into the boxes. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Gender Equality. You also received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. With us is the head of the management of the Croatian small economy agency, Mr Tomislav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21039	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is my pleasure to briefly elaborate the report of the Croatian Agency for Small Business in 2007. As you know, the Croatian Small Economy Agency has continued a series of several years of successful business, both operations and areas of activity that we are working on today, so today we can share our business into four basic activities, which is the issue of guarantees for business loans, grants, development of a network of consultants and the development of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Since we have also been created as the legal successor of the former Guarantee Agency and it is a good part of the public perception that this is still the most important part of our business, I will take a few sentences in that order and go. So last year, HAMAG issued a total of 178 guarantees of 163 million kuna, an increase of 11% compared to the year before. These guarantees allowed an investment of slightly more than 514 million kuna, which is an increase of 27% compared to the year before. However, here I would point out one major importance, which is that these are investments, i.e. entrepreneurs who did not have enough insurance for their projects, and just through guarantees from the Croatian Small Economy Agency, they were able to achieve these projects so that our guarantees enabled investment of more than half a billion kuna only last year. The average amount of credit we guaranteed was one million and 745 thousand kuna, the average guarantee of which was 53% and the average investment was almost 2 million and 900 thousand kuna. The most guarantees we have provided in the area of agriculture thanks to you are familiar with the operational programmes in the area of agriculture, then in the area of growth and development of companies and I can stress that last year we have provided 26% more guarantees for new entrepreneurs, i.e. beginners. According to regional division, we gave the most in Vukovar-Srijem County, then Osijek-Baranja and Virovitica-Podravska. We guaranteed the most guarantees divided by banks for loans from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, then the Zagreb Bank, the Croatian Bank and the Croatian Post Bank. In the last year, we came up with something, one part of the guarantees that we guaranteed, which is worth a million and 977 thousand kuna, and we managed to charge all 319 thousand kuna. And I would say more about the guarantees that last year we expanded our programmes and brought three new guarantee programmes, which is a programme, a guarantee programme for entrepreneurs in the zone, so to invest in an entrepreneurial zone where we guarantee up to 80% on a 12 million kuna loan, then a programme subordinated debt and a new technology programme. The second area of our action is the granting of grants in 2007 by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship has entrusted us with three programmes of grants for implementation. It is a programme of entrepreneurship of target groups, a student cooperative and a student company and a programme to encourage entrepreneurship centres and regional development agencies, and thanks to the successfully implemented projects last year, we have become the main implementing agency for the 2008 operational plan. The third area of our action is the development of a network of consultants which is also important for the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship because we know that all those who are moving into their business, whether they are beginners or developing their business need the help of an expert. That is why we have developed a programme of education and certification of consultants for a small economy and our intention is that each county has at least two to three certified consultants from that area to be available to entrepreneurs. The newspaper we introduced last year is that HAMAG co-finances those consultants' services of 50%. The fourth area of our action is the development of entrepreneurship infrastructure, which is in line with the government strategy of the Republic of Croatia and the guidelines for balanced economic development. Therefore, in order for an area to be equal in the development of the economy, it must be provided with infrastructure and therefore we encourage the development of entrepreneurship centres, regional development agencies, incubators and other centres that will therefore be the primary purpose of aid in the development of the economy. At the end of last year, and this is a new area of our action, at the end of last year we set up a department for European Union projects and we believe, we intend to accredit it by the end of 2009, when we will therefore become an operational body for the implementation of structural funds, which will, in any event, be an equal member of the European Union at the time we enter. At the end of the year, the agency employs 27 employees of which 80% of them are highly educated, and I believe that we are also optimistic with this report, but also with business so far, that we are really becoming one respectable agency of what the Croatian economy needs and all of our plans for the future are also so optimistic and I believe that at this rate as they have grown up, we will actually achieve everything we are set up for. Here's so much, so much for me in a few words to elaborate this report. I'm at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21040	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point, we have three individual debates reported. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21041	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chairman of the HAMAG Administration with an associate, colleague and colleague. In fact, in this brief debate, I would like to say that the function of this state institution and its role is yet to be expected in the future, because it works briefly on these projects, and I would like to support this very fact that the stake in the Croatian total economy is over 90% small and medium-sized enterprises, which, in these conditions of globalisation and our incompetence, should actually be helped in this way to make them technologically qualified, but also to be able and in terms of new knowledge to be ready to transfer new technologies. And I'll look back at two or three segments of the agency's work. In this section relating to guarantees, therefore, the report says that guarantees were sought for the $ 365.5 million loan, that they were granted 163,3 million, and they covered 310 million kuna. So, a little less than the guarantees were asked for, and that they recorded 11% growth. There have been 14 banks involved and, as said in this explanation, over 50% of our state-owned institution, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is still involved. It is to be said that this is progress because for a very long time our commercial banks did not want to accept guarantees for these purposes at all, and what has now been included is a total of 13 banks, this means progress, but it still does not seem to me enough confidence in such guarantees. And now that we see what they're covering, then we don't need to be unhappy because they cover exactly those segments of the economy where we have more problems and we want it to move faster, primarily agriculture that actually over 50% realized these guarantees, then growth and development. He may be concerned about why few such programmes and the demand for guarantees for areas of special state concern, as they should be rapidly developed to remove this huge difference in the development of certain parts of Croatia. However, since such guarantees in agriculture have gone the most, in the legal form of entrepreneurs, to the most agricultural holdings that are almost 50% in the register, then to trade and to the least commercial societies, and I think that such distribution is good. However, there are some things that will need to be taken care of if there is an increase in the amount of guarantees, which is in the first row that arises and now that we have bigger guarantee days and more of those that will have to be realised, that is, to collect. We see that there were 10 such demands and that about a million were paid, slightly more than about a million and 900 thousand kuna, and that it was successful to pay only 6.6% for such guarantees paid. The report itself finds that this is worrying and that it can also be worrying in the future if this happens. What would interest me and how much the agency is able to do in the first place is to monitor both the programs and their realization. It's the ones that are guaranteed, and they're saddened by the collection of those guarantees. What happened was that the loans couldn't be paid off. What I think is a great role and importance and what should actually be done more, but it can't be done by the agency alone if it's not in the co-operation of local and regional self-government. It's just this network of consultants. The lack of projects is precisely why people have no information on one side, on the other hand they have no knowledge to design a particular project. And we see that out of the 30 students who took certification training, 16 consultants were certified last year and we now have 58. I don't think that's enough, because when we do a little more of this data that we got through the report, six counties don't have any consultants at all. It is then reflected in the lack of projects in these areas, and then it is reflected both later and not only on the guarantees that are welcome, but more on those grants that can be obtained through this institution. Perhaps we should look for reasons why there are no people registered in these counties who would be certified as consultants. And the last thing, so it just confirms that if you don't have good information and knowledge, and education done, then you don't have any projects. And the last thing I would like to point out is that these are entrepreneurship centres and development agencies that once came down like mushrooms after the rain and were high expectations, but now that it's seen that both consultants and entrepreneurship centres or development agencies should actually be a service to small entrepreneurship in their area, so in specific counties, municipalities and cities. We do not have enough such people and three counties in Croatia do not have any form, such form. So neither the entrepreneurship centres nor the development agency. And then there's no wonder in some of those counties there's no such thing as last year's grant. I'm surprised it wasn't in Karlovac County and Vukovar-Srijem. Surely in Vukovar-Srijem County, such support would be needed, but if you don't have a program, if you don't have people to wear those programs, it's not for the least. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21042	Thank you very much to the honourable representative. We have a replica of one. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21043	When a colleague Zgrebec is really particularly apostrophe here one of the biggest problems, so all these opportunities that the agency and offers are not used not because the needs for this do not exist, but because those who need and such funding, therefore such a kind of funding, but because they simply... do not know how to apply, do not know what they would say in that ancient language to write an application for something to give them. We have seen here exactly what counterpart Zgrebec says commending this action and these programs and projects co-financing the network of consultants but we are often witnesses in general as the Croatian state that often these services of consultants are so expensive, that they eat the main thing. Or unfairly tall. Therefore, here may be a suggestion given this devastating report in terms of the training of our small businessmen, which is not surprising at all, if the Croatian Agency could in some way do some kind of education in this regard, regardless of this certification given to consultants for such matters, but this would certainly enable and strengthen and encourage small entrepreneurs to seek and provide necessary assistance to which then the Croatian Agency for a small economy and comes into contact.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21044	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is for the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues from the agency. Here I am pleased to discuss a successful project that was created under the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development adopted in 2002, that the agency that started working in 2003 saw it live and work full lung. We don't need to talk much about how important the agency will be to us next year, especially in light of the financial crisis that is now in the world, and especially in light of what little and medium-sized economies will suffer the most under this crisis, and that it will be very difficult to come up with the resources that they need in order to carry out their activity and to ultimately have a more successful, 'let's say this export and this whole story that we have about the balance of payments. So such an agency may, or work, be successful in the work of that agency, perhaps contribute to the fact that we do not have such an export fiasco instead of an export offensive this year, because, as everyone knows the trade deficit was 8.7 billion over the first nine months, there is no tendency to decrease, but it will be bigger by the end of the year. So the purpose of this agency is to encourage the new small medium-sized companies to establish themselves, perhaps that trend will turn next year. I therefore believe that even more potential should be given by a guarantee agency than 500 million kunas, that it must be greater in order for these results of the small economy to be better in the following year. What I wouldn't say concerns me, but I think a 201 guarantee application, which is probably the one that's been through that procedure, doesn't seem too big in a year. And on the other hand, I see that agriculture dominates. I have nothing against agriculture, I think it is a branch that is extremely important for Croatia but the ratio of new technologies to growth and development that category is far behind what I mentioned in agriculture and I think that Croatia's chance is primarily in new technologies and, as the whole of Europe has turned to science and new technologies, I think that in Croatia it is important to develop this in the future. Of course, it has nothing to do with the agency, it has to do with the entire concept of Croatia's development, so I believe that these things will change in the future. What I think is important enough to round up the entire network of consultants because quite often, and I think this programme is related to areas of special state interest, it is linked to the fact that we do not have consultants throughout Croatia. I see that there are only 15 counties covered by this programme of subsidisation or co-financing of consultants or their hours, and I think it is necessary that the agency circle as soon as possible to have the services of consultants available in each county for those who start new companies. The second thing, this grant program, and there's the only one that might be my little grudge to the agency. Although it is small, it is likely to be used this year, there are certain means. I had a lot of grudges from certain entrepreneurs that after having made the request six, seven months, whether they received or received no funds, they did not receive a written reply, which is why they were not included. That I think should be more up-to-date. Here, this is not the subject of concrete reports but also those who do not receive funds, and there is always too little grants for everyone to be happy. I think they should at least get an answer which is why they're not listed as the ones that got the funds. I have several such examples that six months of this year are waiting for what to happen, they've filed before the end of the first term, until today they don't have any answers. So here I am going to give future work full support to the agency. I believe that support should be given in this way to increase the guarantee potential in order to make it easier for all these difficult economic moments in the coming year to endure a small economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21046	Thank you very much. The next debate is the esteemed representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21047	Your Honor, Vice President. Here, in my debate I will try to concentrate on what I think is important and it seems to me that for a small country like Croatia is important two things that we can have as a comparative advantage. One is innovation, so our tendency to innovation, to invest in people, and the other is a comparative advantage that brings us a geostrategic position. In our case, it's land, it's agriculture. We are not a great force, we do not have the ability to develop multinational companies, a large-capital industry but we have the possibility, we have the obligation and responsibility to develop companies and strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises as an engine of the economy. The agency, which was created in 2003, is also on the trail of best European practices because the European Union does not know classical subsidies but offers them and returns them through projects, means through quality projects that control and regulate the Agency for specific things. But what is currently the situation with our export offensive that should be the most engine and wheel of economic growth and economy should not be spoken, a record, 8.6th foreign trade deficit. It never was. Also, never less coverage of export imports, it is also the worst result in the past many years. But what is particularly worrying is the state of the agrarian, the state of agriculture where we are in a comparative advantage. Nearly 3 billion support from our taxpayers, the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia are going to support agriculture in order to export only 5 billion kuna of agricultural products. 3 billion support for 5 billion exports. That's 60%, so that brings me to the bill to make it cheaper for me for 3 billion to buy products and resell them at a certain margin because then a similar export would achieve. What also concerns is the situation in certain counties that do not have a network of consulting centres. I'm glad you're subsidizing part of these consulting services to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, but unfortunately in the future it's not enough. We, i.e. The state has to pay for all this. The state must open the door wide to anyone who comes up with a new idea and anyone who is ready to inform about this new idea. It leaves the possibility that a certain fee in the form of a docker means that not everyone comes and with all kinds of ideas comes. But the state has to take a more decisive role, and that means your agency, because that means that we're already detimizing some of them that they're coming to consult. What concerns me in particular is especially small guarantees in those areas where they are most needed, such as Karlovac County, the poorest counties, such as Sisak-Moslavina, such as Sibenik-Knin County, where even the smallest funds have come and where these funds are provided and at least guarantees, and normally because people have not reported on projects but unfortunately in these counties as well as in six counties in Croatia, and there are no places where entrepreneurs with quality initiatives could be informed or where they could find out everything they are interested in. And that's why it's an obligation to go according to the plan and program of your agency and it's up to you to see how you're going to form it, I hope you do it next year. Unfortunately, Croatian exporters are facing another thing that has started to happen since 1 July 2008 means this year. Most of all, we export to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Agreement on Association and Stabilisation between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina means the starting advantage of Croatia between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina The CEFTA Treaty on Free Trade has weakened. And what has already begun to be noticed is the less competitive position of our exporters in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is what is not good. And this agency should also focus most of its work and potential towards increasing Croatian exports and increasing the meaning of export capacities or subsidising guarantees on high-valued projects, and that is what the vision for the future should be, and I hope that it will look that way in the coming years. Last thing but not least. The most credit requirements were made from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It says here, that's the data that is... and that is the bank, the Croatian bank that stimulates development, reconstruction, stimulates projects within Croatia on the principle: "Trust in and in its beaks." And therefore this opportunity is also to say that the position and financial capacity and the bank should be strengthened in the next period, and this must be done by the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it has to be imperative because none of our projects on the outside will pay us unless we pay them ourselves. And that's what, that's what we insist on and what we'll continue to insist on at the SDP Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21048	Thank you to Reverend Bernardic. This, on this exhibit, we have one correction of an incorrect quote and two replicas. First, the correction of the incorrect quote and the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Josip Frisčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21049	Mr. Vice President, an esteemed colleague has carried out one bill that would cost a lot of money around this agency, and otherwise in this society, it's easy to solve because, as with three billion support in agriculture, we're creating five billion exports, so let's add two more and we don't even need those branches. The branch also produced 5 billion exports and 4 and a half million Croats and other citizens of the Republic of Croatia and 11 million tourists. What she imported is the part that is still not enough in Croatian production but it is precisely this agency that is about to support that tomorrow and that is less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21051	Mr. Vice President, I don't think it's a good idea when I'm vice president of the House in violation of Article 209 that's talking about correcting an incorrect quote because I haven't heard a single quote corrected or a quote is correct. This was a classic replica to which a representative should be given the right to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21052	Thank you very much. An indirect conclusion could be drawn from the correction of the incorrect allegations to which the Vice-President of the House is called. We'll continue with the replica. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21053	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Bernardic, I agree with you about the eye, it's a replica, yes, and now I'm going to upgrade that replica. Uh, I agree with part of your debate, especially about agriculture. Here's a colleague of Friscic's now said, unfortunately, one fact that is not true or incorrect, which is that we have fed 11 million tourists and 4 and a half million Croats. That would be great if our agriculture were feeding it, if most of what these people ate were imported. So we should also work first on the competitiveness of our agriculture so that we can benefit from it. But it's not, it's not a story about agriculture and the Little Economy Agency is finished here. I would prefer, next year will be very, very difficult for tourism and it will be very difficult to set up new tourist companies like that, and especially small, regardless of what is being dealt with by the Ministry of Tourism, I think a special programme should open it within this agency. And the second thing about HABOR, I think that next year statistics will be on HABOR's side not 50% as it is this year but 90% because foreign banks will certainly not find interest in supporting a small economy and that will be the first loans to be hitched to this financial crisis. And that's why I think it's really a solution to give more funding to HABOR, and such a proposal from the SDP Representatives' Club will go. Let's go to HABOR and 5 billion kuna to have more support for our economy next year. No one will help us if we don't help ourselves, and that's what we'll see if the government hears about it when it proposes a new budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21054	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica and the representative... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21055	Thank you, Comrade Maras. No one will help us if we don't help ourselves. That's the one. There are no more Croatian peasants who are willing to endure and threaten to produce, to ensure a quality life for themselves and for their family, a worthy life for themselves and for their family, and that is what we seek. And that's why, when we said that, me and my colleague Frishcic were on the same track. We think the same thing. Croatian agriculture is a comparative advantage. We have this land. We have people who know how to farm land. What we need is to help these people become competitive. Half, we import twice as much as we export and more, and that's what our problem is. And I'm throwing a glove to the current government. Since this is also our comparative advantage let's go for at least 4 years, let's have at least 4 years of exporting the same food imports. We're not talking about anything but importing food. Let's do it. You're four years old. I want you to pass the exam.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21056	Thank you very much. And a replica of the distinguished advocates of Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21057	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, my colleague has talked a lot about agriculture here. I think it should be pointed out that it is logical that the state invests in agriculture because every new job in agriculture opens up another two jobs and shows examples of neighbouring countries. So I think that agriculture should be seen from one real point of view and in the context of this crisis that we are in because the crisis is on the one hand a danger, but for smart people, the crisis can also be a chance. And there may be a chance to place a Croatian agricultural product on both domestic and foreign markets as well as in tourism as you yourself mentioned, and every investment in agriculture in my opinion is worth it because this is not just about food production. This is about keeping space, protecting the Croatian country. To invest in competitiveness are also reported on page 13 of this report because HAMAG serves to approve guarantees and these guarantees should make companies and crafts and agriculture more competitive, and here you see that the most guarantees are granted under the guarantee scheme of agriculture, 100 and 56% of all the guarantees granted in total amounting to 96 million 695 thousand 326 kuna. Also in the structure according to the legal form of entrepreneurs, the highest percentage of guarantees was granted to family farms as much as 47%. Next up, D.O.O. 29% and turnovers with 24%. Therefore, I think that the HAMAG has justified its fundamental role and that role should be to approve guarantees to those who need to be competitive and I think that we all agree that we must not materially treat agriculture, farmers, family economies that have preserved tradition, culture, religion and the language of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21058	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, MP Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21059	I feel like we're in the same party, and that's good. And I'll have to agree with you. The crisis is for a smart chance. You have deflation maybe, so deflation is a negative inflation. So, you will have a slowdown in the construction sector in the following year, meaning in Croatia but also in Europe you will have a slowdown in industrial production. But what you will surely have to grow and cover this other side is a rise in food prices and a rise in energy prices. Because of the growing needs that come primarily from eating habits, so I will dare say Asians and the increasing amount of energy that comes from both Africa and Asia, even the need means European population. Food, the price of food will rise. It's the World Bank's conclusions. It's not my invention. And that is why the crisis is a chance, and that is why agriculture is our comparative advantage and because agriculture is our comparative advantage, I really expect that we will focus much more money on modernising agriculture and thus help the Croatian peasant, Croatian citizen, Croatian state, Croatian budget and Croatian competitiveness to have the same imports as we insist on for three years or four years and that is what we are asking you to do as Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21060	Thank you very much. Now on those three announced individual reports I announced at the beginning of the debate. In the meantime, we've got two reports received. First of all, the honourable representative and vice president of the House Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21061	Dear Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Surely this report tells us in itself the reasons why this agency was to be set up, it speaks about what activities are, but I would say the report and the opening statement even more strongly assures us and points to the justification that the founding is doing. A lot of these things that we've said through both discussion and replicas today and tonight, we've said for sure no matter what clubs they come from. But certain findings are for sure that at one point in Croatia we were in a situation where we had fallen mastodons in agriculture, fallen companies in the economy or when we were looking for an exit. The exit was sought among other things but also strongly through the development of crafts of small and medium-sized enterprises. Within these segments, one group was particularly exposed or disabled in the creation of its development. It was just a group we later called family economies. Before that, it was the rural households, the same households where you could have had one or two combines, several tractors, a hundred cows, a house and all the machines, but you couldn't have a current bank account because you didn't receive receipts through an account because you were trafficking the other way. There has been a change in that segment and that segment has been followed most strongly. I can speak as well as the one who worked, but as well as the one who followed. Because as mayor seven years ago in my county, seven companies were 78% of the economy. And two years ago, thanks to all seven of them, they're not dead. We doubled the total income of the economy, and the small and medium economy is 46%, and that's the time we've entered now, that's the hardest part, because it's 1200, maybe 100 of them are going to get into trouble, but it's going to be 100 new. How are 100 new ones going to come into existence? On the trail of what's written here and what I support should be done. Because we had one situation consultants when you had to allocate funds in the beginning because only that group of these people could do it. Those who properly transposed the development, who formed the agencies, who educated the people who in my county are consultants, employees of the agency. And what cost us 30,000 in the neighborhood next door cost us 3,000. These are among other things the most powerful incentives and help these entrepreneurs to objectively valorise their programme and ultimately pay for them acceptable prices. And then what's more important. And what this report finally confirms, is that of all the clients in any banking sector, there are no fewer who are in the group of risk or write-offs. From what I hear, it's about $1 million here. Given all the placements, you could say negligible sums, but that only speaks about the seriousness of the work, about the quality of the selection, and especially what I am pleased to see that these segments that have been neglected for a very long time, put into another plan, which we all agree on tomorrow are building a way out and a solution because these days in Croatia a lot is being debated whether we are going to grow by 6, 3 or how much. I claim the most important thing next year is to be, will be who's got work to do. And then we'll discuss what the value of that work is. I don't want to give up to employers and say that I can bring all the workers down to minimals now, but I think that's something that we're going to be dealing with and that's why we're going to be thinking about, and I support this report, but I'm also very much happy because with the report and it's pointed out and pointed out which way it's going to be from strengthening the HAMAGA functions beyond the credit sector because that's exactly what we need, strongly with the funds, to encourage new entrepreneurs, to create conditions for them to go because the crisis is not coming out. We are all aware that we are in a crisis, and it is not the crisis that comes out of the crisis by shutting down jobs, but by creating new and increasing activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have three replicas. First of all, the honourable representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21063	Thank you very much. Here, I will agree almost with the whole debate of Mr Fristic and I am glad that it gives full support to the agency because I am giving it and because the agency was created as an idea that we recognized in 2002 in the coalition government and which after 7 years the result is seen how many new companies, how many new jobs. And on the other hand, I wish there were such projects in both this and the last government. We have an export offensive project that turned into a fiasco. There is no export, exports are getting smaller every day and therefore, here is my colleague Frištic's advice that when we go with the proposal to give this agency stronger guarantee potential when we go with the proposal to give HBOR more funds because it is seen that HBOR is the only bank with interest in these difficult moments to invest in the Croatian economy. I hope that you will think as you are now thinking during the vote of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21064	Thank you very much. Replication response, Vice President Friscice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21065	Thank you very much, fellow MP, for agreeing on this and for what is done and for what should be done and for sure that I will be among those who will support it because these support will be extremely needed. You know, we didn't go into such a strong financial crisis amongst other things because we had a situation unlike some of the others who were getting loans, as they would say without guarantees. We were angry about why guarantee, insurance, even mortgage, but today it's the security of the financial system. Similarly applied here, and as far as we're concerned, it's certainly without new capital, but also the security of that capital, because we see that suddenly bankers bought double glasses, it's going to be hard to get that capital, we as a state, but not only through our institutions, but also as partners with the banking system, we have to create this very atmosphere to get into the economy primarily small and medium-sized as much capital as possible, and to look together for a way out of the situation in which we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21066	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21067	I would agree with the part that the exit in the small and medium economy, i.e. entrepreneurship which is the biggest sector, but I would disagree with the part where you said it was the most tough. For example, only data for the past year show that 3,000 new insolvency companies are only this year, so those who are unable to pay the commitment because deadlines are moved. 35,000 people hire these companies. 7 billion outstanding contributions, 30% increase, 6% increase in insolvency craftsmen. So they're very sensitive to crises and turbulence. For example, look at one entrepreneur who has 9, 10 jobs a year and some because of the crisis, some because of market conditions are not able to close 10, but close 5, and then three more don't pay him. He's got two out of ten. He was murdered. He's dead. He can just put the key in the lock, and he can't even get a cheap loan. How it's going to be cheaply in debt, so the state is now in debt at 13%. Here, one day, the state took 8.6% of the money already in bonds through the commercial records of pension funds, for the payment of bonds already in debt of 6%. So that's 13.6%, and how is an entrepreneur going to be in charge of small money when the state is in charge of 13.14%? That's what this is about. And therefore the necessary investment is precisely in small entrepreneurship and through... What my colleague Maras said was absolutely for support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21068	Thank you very much. Replication response, Vice President Friscice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21069	Thank you very much. Well, actually, the first sentence of an esteemed fellow MP was that it doesn't agree with me until the end that it was the most tough part, and the last one was that by actually investing in small and medium entrepreneurship we agree that there's a way out and we agree, I believe there's a way out, but the same numbers that you're talking about when we're looking at other sectors, they're very different, although I agree with you. Financial discipline is the easiest exercise in the small, with the big one, it's much harder, but it's ours, it's not since yesterday, it's not today, we have to discuss it in the future through some debates, through other points of the agenda it's pointed out to such problems, but I'm glad if it is, to be constantly less and what I'm up to, and I believe that we all agree that the state must primarily make sure that it's compliant with its obligations, and the last address of Minister Shucker is anywhere through his report he said, "The state of its obligations is at peace," because there's the most dangerous generator. And that's why you mentioned the budget. And when it comes to budgeting, we need to see that it is balanced, that we create commitments in the volumes in which we will have the resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21070	Thank you very much. And the third reported replica has a prominent representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21071	Dear colleague Fristic, I will remind you of one piece of information and not mine, but what kind of data the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is. In 2003, we imported 1 billion 256 million dollars in agricultural products. In 2007, that number is like this 2 billion 150 million dollars. So in a negative balance compared to imports and exports of agricultural products, today we are down to $837 million. I think it's worrying for all of us, that it's worrying data. Here, soon, the Agricultural Land Act will, in some ways, be binding on people, to stimulate them to process their land, but without meaningful action, so the state wants and how it will not be happy, and year by year these data will be increasingly dramatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21072	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a vice president of the Parliament, Mr. Friscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21073	Thank you very much, Vice President. The esteemed colleague has been reading the numbers and data of the Chamber of Commerce and they are correct. But, you know, football and agriculture are all understood, it's only hard to find solutions on one side, and on the other side to go clear and straight, especially when it comes to data, because the data is as accurate as you say, but the volume, the goods imports in 2008 compared to 2007 are only more than 1.8%. Everything else is a question of the rate of dollars and the value of goods on the world market, because there is no more pork French River from China, half of them by 12 kuna, and they will never be again. When it was in Rijeka 12 kuna, there was no cost-effective production in Croatia. Unfortunately, today, this kind of negative data comes in favor of those who are engaged in this activity, because in order to be half of 12 kunas, it took a living scale of 6 kunas, and no one had to use a corncuruse and a half kilo of fog to grind it. It's an internal analysis that actually goes in that direction and that direction. We need to look at what's valuable, and what's quantitative, and what are the missing products that we can certainly make up for, and that's where I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21074	Thank you very much. Here we have finished this small debate on agricultural policy and we are going back to the Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency. And the last reported individual debate is the distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21075	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the representatives of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy. Here I want to join, actually before the debate I want to emphasise something that has already been said in these mutual replicas, which is that in many ways we agree and it is quite certain that in many things we agree on, however the differences are in the ability and knowledge of what is wrong, to turn into something that is right. Well, this report and only the functioning and work of the Croatian Small Economy Agency says that at one point, especially at this moment difficult for the economy, and I would dare say right now, given that we are not familiar with it, we still don't know what the government's moves are in terms of creating conditions for our economy, regardless of whether it's small, large or medium, in times ahead, that we still have one agency that works well, that a good idea that was born a few years ago finally got its name and name, finally got its own purpose and finally one huge support for the farmers, and the area of agriculture that needs no further and that kind of aid, but when I'm already in agriculture, it's just incomprehensible that, and I believe that the exact data I've recently read in the papers, it's surprising that in the last ten years, we've spent a decade on agriculture subsidies in agriculture, we've spent 17.5 billion, and that agricultural production production at the same time, we've dropped 30%. So we don't have this system, we don't know it, and we don't know the fact that it's one area that needs to be solved, an area that needs conditions and opportunities, but unfortunately concrete actions and concrete activities still don't exist. When we talk about the Croatian small economy agency not to go into those things that already colleagues in their debates have fully observed, guaranteed potential. Definitely, and especially by accepting the conditions in which our economy currently survives or is being maintained in time ahead, it is certain that it will have to be saved, the guarantee capital that the Croatian small economy agency has is definitely too small to do so from this report and read. We hope that in the new budget of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will create conditions for HAMAG to increase its guarantee potential for next year. But one of the possibilities that has already been said in this House, and I will repeat it again, the possibility of increasing the potential. Namely, Varazdin County founded its guarantee agency three and a half years ago, and Varazdin County is one of the few at that time organised by the "caspu" so-called "Keshpu". The joint account-keeping, from savings created with united account-keeping, has so far paid about 3.5 million kuna in the guaranteeing potential of the County Guarantee Agency. So we have these opportunities. The profession has calculated that if the state had made a "cash" at the state level, it would have saved something at the annual level that, at the height of 3 to 4 billion kuna, I would have repeated at the annual level, but certainly one large part of the funds that today and today, and unfortunately in time before us, the banking sector that is not owned by Croatian citizens, which is on foreign property, is paying through dividends, through its extra profits. We therefore have only one segment to list all of these others, but I would especially like to underline the need for Croatia's small economy agency to increase its guarantee potential, and that the Croatian Agency for a small economy in time ahead of us should act in an extremely difficult and unfavourable way to strengthen our economy. And lastly, it's about the obligations that we're going to have, which we're going to have as soon as the statistical regions function. Namely, it is known that there is a need to establish the so-called The National Regional Development Agency, that the necessity and need to make you... also form within the framework of the counties, and in order to make a clean system and potential and the possibility of using funds from pre-accession funds, I think it would be necessary and necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that it is also in Croatia's small-economic agency that they are considering the transfer of some of the powers, part of these guarantees, together with the potential and county guarantee agencies with the potential of the Croatian small-economic agency to function as quickly as possible and as best-quality and meaningful use and resources as possible in both pre-accession and later those basic funds that we have the right to. In any case, I am using once again the opportunity to commend the efforts and energy that the employees of the Croatian small economy agency have invested in the daily work of the agency and I join the thoughts of my colleagues from the SDP and I am sure that we will also support their initiative unless it is also defined in the 2009 budget, which is to strengthen and strengthen the potential of the Croatian small economy agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21076	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. There is a vice president of the Parliament, Mr. Friscic, on your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21077	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow MP, in your debate, you made it clear that I don't know how we spent the last 10 years on the name of subsidies 17 and a half billion and that we have less production by 30%. In the first place, what is invested in agriculture through capital support and incentives I would not call consumption, because that is why we have the safety and food production of a certain quality at an acceptable price. And secondly, these 30% figures if we've produced nearly 800 thousand tons of wheat this year and we have over 100,000 tons more than our annual consumption. If 2 million and 600,000 tunas of corn are collected in Croatia this year, and our needs are 2 million 200 thousand and we never picked it up so much, if wine production, olive oil is growing, etc., to list, I don't know where the authors are and where these figures are by reduction and who it is produced by 30%.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21078	Thank you very much. Replica response, MP Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21079	Well, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, literally listening to this argument of yours, I'm definitely asking myself how you got that information. However, the argument is based on harvested corn and wheat, and when we talk about total agricultural production, and that agricultural production involves all segments involved in this production, then I simply think that your argument does not stand, and if that were true. In fact, it is better said that not exactly every farmer, every agricultural producer in this country knows, almost every one, because of that agricultural production they produce, or rather what they get for their agricultural production, he is simply forced to seek social aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21080	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. And I'm asking the proposer's representative if he wants to take the closing word? Here you go. Mr Kovacevic, president of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy Management.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21081	I'd say every discussion on this subject is extremely useful and I'd say it's very necessary. We need it here, but it also takes the Croatian public to strengthen the sensitivity of the need to strengthen small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, because in both the European Union and Croatia it is therefore above 99% in the structure of the economy. I see that in this debate you have touched various topics, and here I would say very useful, because last session of the board of directors has been granted our request to increase our guarantee potential, so these days, we will be heading towards the Croatian government with a request to increase our guarantee potential. And the comments that were about consultants and a series of others, I'm not going to elaborate them individually right now, but I'd say the situation is much better for HAMAG's business in 2008. I guarantee you that next year's report will actually be much better than this and on the subject of consultants and on the structure of investment and on agriculture, because why were the most guarantees in agriculture? Because it was a big investment, and trust me, a little bit that a farmer can guarantee with personal property worth $3.4 million. That's why there were most guarantees in agriculture, because investments in modern economic farms are almost generally more than 2 and a half or 3 million. And we've funded a lot of these. When I mentioned the report, I also have to mention the comment I've heard these days from a consultant from Ireland who actually worked for a long time at the Irish Development Agency who, after hearing and looking at our business in the last few years, said that you, by any chance, would have been characterized as a fast-growing company. So, like a fast-growing girl. I said I was more proud of the team because I actually proved that the business of a state-owned institution, a state-owned agency can just assume the characteristics of such a fast-growing company. So that's where we break down all those barriers so you can't, that it's bureaucracy or I don't know what. The agency can be really operational if a good team agrees and I, let me, use this opportunity to thank HAMAG workers who are really diligent, when we talk about last year, there were 27, but really hard work managed to get these results and believe me, every economy needs a strong incentive, every economy needs a strong agency, and I will do everything I can to make this agency stronger and to really justify its business, i.e. its existence. I thank you for your discussion and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21082	I'd like to thank the president of the HAMAG administration. And I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21083	Ninth, Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency for 2007. The applicant is the Croatian small economy agency. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, which reads: "The Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency for 2007. A year.". Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? This report was accepted by a majority vote with 108 votes in favour, four abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21084	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - The report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media in the period from 1 November 2006 to 31 December 2007 submitted a report on the work under Article 58(6). The law on electronic media. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion on this report, and the debate was carried out by the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information and Information and Media. You received reports from the board at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain this proposal? Yeah. Here you go, Master Zdravko Kejo, President of the Council for Electronic Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21085	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and respected MPs. Let me try in a few words and sentences to make the most important points. I didn't think it was going to be the first sentence I'd say, but since it's the media that's so quick to report the information that comes along as you wait for the debate that Captain Laptalo was released, then you start to think that electronic media is what we're talking about and why we're talking about as important. So, there are a few points that I want to say, given that this has been pointed out by discussions on parliamentary committees. It is a regulator and an independent person, a legal independent person, members who are elected to the Government's proposal in the Parliament, and what the debate seeks to underline by the Electronic Media Council today is not a budgetary user. Therefore, given that there has been often a dilemma about this, the Council is financed from 0.5% of the revenues of the electronic media publishers over the year from the activity it is carrying out precisely by radio and television publishing activity. I also think the fact that it's not about the budget user these days is something special. The period covers a little more than the calendar year. As a consequence, the fact that members of the Council are elected not calendarly from the first, but since you know that there was an amendment to the Law on Electronic Media last year, this will be avoided in the future, and then reports will be from the first to the first, or there will be no small discrepancies as in this. Because as you know in the amendments and additions today from the first one on the Electronic Media Agency, there should be no confusion. It includes a council which manages the Agency as a governing council under the Law on Institutions. The consequence is the fact that the appointment of members over the year, and I sincerely ask you not to accept as any frame or fence, because the fact that the proposer in the image of my smallness then proposes a work report in which he was not a member for half a year of the report he represents, and as a proposer is four months back. Of course, this does not lessen the responsibility or need to say about it, however, I think that the most important points are the work and responsibility of the agency, or the council. So the council has seven members. I'll say some of the most important tasks you must know, but it's necessary for some of the debates to be highlighted. One of them is the regulator in charge of the software content of electronic media or to shorten if radio and television are needed. So 21 is a commercial publisher at local television levels, 2 commercial on national, 156 at last, and this is known to change the radio editor and a story called Croatian Radio Television by special law, as you must know here in the Parliament. This Regulation, as soon as possible in the face of the Council's activities, concerns the control of whether the software content is in conformity with the law. And unfortunately, it seems to me to me that today this activity is reduced to a sentence, how much are the opposite and how much are the laws being broken since it seems to me that the trend in this sense is negative and that this indicates in fact what or should be the most important activities of the council, or agencies in the following year. In this context, strengthening administrative capacity in the light of the European Union directive, which is not an emphasis on administrative but on the capacity in terms of direct supervision and in future stronger monitoring that I am not using and disintegrating now, because it seems to me to be close to, therefore, direct and indirect monitoring in line with the main task of whether the software content and the electronic media and how many violations of the law are, and in that sense, it will be one of the most important activities that awaits the Agency, or the Council. And I'm just using the opportunity to say that some of these council plans are currently working, like creating technical, programming, and then spatial capacities. But it's another occasion. Let me say something that's the most common question. In its work, the Council has the means called "the means to promote pluralism of the media". These are the funds collected by the legal decision 3% of the Croatian Radio-Television fee. It shall be open to the Council and shall award those resources to public competitions. Countless questions were generally about the fund. Shorter, so on the fund. I need to underline the fact that funds are distributed by public tender, that the criteria are regulated by law, that the rules laid down in these legal provisions are generally complemented and amended almost every year. I'm just going to say an example, this year's rules, i.e. the fund allocation rule, are complemented by categories such as software content intended for gender inequality, software content intended for national minorities, software content intended for disabled people. So from the distribution legal assignment, there's a rule we're supplementing. We already know that there are some from the constituency committees and other debates that the need to add to that regulation some other categories of funds to the distribution of funds. The key question that has always been raised, how did A, TV B, get as much or as much. Well then you often mention categories of type, these are in a smaller area, these are from underdeveloped. I'd very much like that if I have to, and there's going to be an opportunity to underline it and emphasize it, perhaps in some broader context. The public tender is for all those who want the funds to compete. The funds to promote pluralism from the fund shared 50% for television publishers, 50% for radios cannot be won at all but by competition in the public competition and nothing but sound logic points to the fact that more categories of competition are more likely for you to get these funds. But of course, it's not just a nominal listing of the categories in which you're going to compete because there's something behind that that's the quality of software content that council members evaluate, and it's important to say that they evaluate all the programs. Some of them stand out in special categories but only this overall rating where one member of the council participates in that evaluation and distribution once a week, so only once a week can affect the overall distribution because your score is one of seven. Only the sum of all seven gives the total number of points and then the distribution of funds. One of the things most often and also on the parent board is particularly stressed, ownership structure. First of all, I should say that for the observed period ahead of you until the amendments to the law were in force, the agencies were not in charge of the structure or had full insight into the ownership structure, so it was not possible to bring it to the parent or any other committee, although what the council is thinking and wants to point out here there is no reason why the ownership structure in electronics and not to tell some other media is not known and that it is not public. For that there is no objective reason except that in this case the council in this report and now thinks or say that we are certain that whoever discussed or proposed public disclosure and that is no problem because everything exists in the court register. For us are publishers of a legal person, it is known who is responsible, etc. I just want to say that I am sure that my colleagues and all those who have discussed on this trail did not think that the council should, in accordance with different ownership structures, see if the software content is better or worse, whether it is important in accordance with the legal provision whether the owner of A or the owner of B. The software content for the council is relevant and the ownership structure may have something to do with some other institutions of the type of ownership concentration, etc. I'm going to say a few more sentences about the current moment and what I think as a council or as an agency is waiting for us in the period ahead of us, which is very demanding, according to the introduction at the beginning that it is a period of a year in which the members of the council are appointed, so will the next year without pleading whether it will be this or some other composition. In that sense, I think that in the years to come, the demands in front of the council and the agency, and I hope and somehow need to make it very clear that even this report will not be at the end of a year for the year before, because I think that what is at the end of this year and for 2007, it is also not bright or commendable, and I hope that it should no longer happen in that sense. These are some of the currents that we witness every day. First of all, it's about digitization. It's a process that will change in many ways. This is not the place or time to talk, I elaborate separately but believe me, it is one task that puts the council and the agency in a position full of mobilization and according to the Audio Visual Methods Directive with what the Government of Croatia project is and in all the story of digitisation in which, in a few years, the Croatian media image will look completely different when it comes to electronic media. What is the problem today is whether there is a place usually said in something, so sometimes it is mentioned whether the expressions are frequencies, whether they are concessions, etc. I believe in a few years there will be room and extra, but there will be no one to answer them. It's not even a cheap toy. Let me tell you more about some dilemmas. I mentioned one of the most important tasks but also the most reluctance or issues when it comes to media pluralism. Is it a social category fund, is it a category of excellence, is it a category of competition in which it is a substitute for the public in a small place or local self-government? Is it information that you have a trustee whose funds are 150% of the budget? Is that oxymoron? Is this about a publisher who's commercial because he's got a concession that funds from pluralism keep alive or is it... They're funding the roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Imagine the fact that this publisher is on the island. Is he now commercial who lives on the fund and is not on the market because there are no markets. Is it still possible to achieve this in this sense only by owning local self-government, and there is no worse owner in the media than any local self-government. So, some of the dilemmas that lie ahead of the council as tasks in some future period that I believe, with all these tasks at national level, so digitisation and the whole story about it next year, the council and the agencies, my fellow council members and my fellow employees of the agency, so that you don't think that who knows how many, there are all twelve of us, can answer that, but I said at first and with the support and plan that we have, I think we're going to strengthen those capacities. And here's another line for the end. All the analyses have shown something that is also not negligible, regardless of what may not be the issue of this report for the past year. The structure of employees in electronic media is devastating. It is something that the agency and the council do not consider or are legally bound or tasked with, but with such a structure of employees in electronic media there is neither good law nor good regulator that will very much or not know how to significantly fix. And I'd like to say that as a council of good co-operation with a whole series of state institutions, I'm going to apostrophe advocacy for children and some of the activities that these days will very quickly see the light of day as the first actions that come into force, you'll see them on TV. We want cooperation and we expect help. We think that the parent board on Information and Media is not a committee in which we will appear once a year at the report but we think that we are knocking on the open door there and that we might also want to cooperate in a lot of things and as much special attention in certain social institutions and above all also NGOs who have in the media the experiences of the council and a lot of professions, a lot of brains and a lot of good things to say. I hope I helped within what I can during this period. I hope it's another warning sentence that it won't be contrary to the optimism from the beginning and the speed of the news as it came about Captain Laptal. What follows is something called electronic publications that should also be a council job and are agencies. When you say electronic publications from the portal via the Internet I could easily say that nowhere in the world has been solved but it won't help me. The fact is that it was another whole set of electronic media called those publications in one way or another, which are least controlled, where this is no ugly matter of supervision but regulatory and something that no one else will do for us or for this council either. Thank you very much for your understanding and for your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21086	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Electronic Media Council. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the government's opinion? You don't have to. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, and first on behalf of the club, Mr. Boris Kunst was registered on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21087	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, President of the Council, secretary, fellow MPs. So the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media for the period from 1 November 2006 to 31 December 2007 can be said that it was properly prepared with a lot of information. As regards the financial report, it is also detailed. The consumption did not go too far so that the excess expenditure revenue for 2007 was achieved in the amount of 545 thousand 413 kuna, which remains the revenue of the Fund for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media, which was also spoken by the President of the Council. Let me just remind you that these funds, once again to repeat the fund, will encourage production, publication of the software content of electronic media at local and regional level, which is of particular importance to the public interest and particularly to the exercise of citizens' rights to public information, national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, the promotion of specific programmes in areas of special state care, development of education, science and art, the development of awareness of gender equality, the creation of Croatian languages, and the funds will encourage the employment of highly educated professionals in electronic media at local and regional level. The decision on the allocation of funds to publishers shall be made by the Council for Electronic Media. According to a report to radio broadcasters, the total share of radio and television operators totalled more than 28 million 272 thousands and so on and some of these funds to Croatian radio and newspaper associations. In the competence of the Electronic Media Council, the implementation of the procedure for granting and confiscation of concessions is in accordance with the Law on electronic media and specific regulations implementing the procedure for the establishment of non-compliance or breach of the provisions of this law, as well as the examination of complaints by citizens on the handling of publishers in the implementation of the law. In the Republic of Croatia, without Croatian broadcasting until the conclusion of this report there were 156 publishers of the radio programme and 23 publishers of the television programme and 230 legal and physical persons enrolled in the register of publishers of electronic publications. And it's all in the report. According to the level of concession in the Republic of Croatia awarded through a public tender for 8 to 15 years during this reporting period, 63 concessions for the performance of radio activities of which 61 have been renewed, two new concessions and two renewed concessions to carry out the activities of television. I would also single out the total number of employees in all companies of radio and television activity of 5 thousand 973 employees, of which in commercial radios is a thousand 373, in commercial television 941 and in Croatian TV 3 thousand 659 employees. As far as the ownership structure is concerned, private property dominates, 72 publishers, 13 state-owned publishers and 71 publishers of the joint ownership of the unit of local administrations and self-government and private publishers. But what is extremely important, and what I think the president has understood in the end, and I would warn of the important obligation and responsibility of the Council for Electronic Media, which is to monitor the compliance of the Law on Electronic Media with individual publishers, as well as the supervision and analysis of the software content of publishers. I believe that the report for the current year will be abundant in various forms of minor and serious injuries regardless of what television house it is. Not to mention the content that is being published on the Internet even though these contents should be spoken of in a way. The report shows that the Council for Electronic Media through monitoring faces numerous irregularities in individual televisions as well as radio, and the most significant injuries relate to the duration of advertising blocks and promotional messages. Although the Law on Electronic Media prescribes that all software content must not or should not be subject to these provisions in various ways in breach of commercial television. Although they struggle through their content for the market, i.e. ratings. The rating that brings them money should be more responsible for the viewers, so take, for example, the TV show "The Moment of Truth" which will obviously be the subject of the 2008 report, regardless of its voluntary participation by persons who, because of their fast and easy earnings, raise the question of how much they hold to their own dignity because the designed issues are below the level of human dignity. Therefore, there is no excuse that they are volunteers so that they can be exposed to a variety of such questions because the likes of people today might occur to someone to set a time on television in which suicidal persons would commit suicides as voluntarily and I believe that someone would look at it and there would be a viewer. So take for example radio RTL and that fatigue from Big Brother who is frustrating for these competitors themselves who also want to get a lot of money easily. The critical mass of inappropriate content on television exceeds every measure. The Council will have its hands full by reviewing the published content of the current year where there is an extremely high percentage of violations of the rights of children and minors. Furthermore, we have also witnessed all kinds of articles, videos, live reports, public comments and publicly published insinuations related to the recent tragic murders in Zagreb. As a result, with the existing deterioration in the control of the media area, the council must be more rigorous in punishing those who violate the Law on Electronic Media, the more often courts are inert, too slow to resolve criminal charges and too mild to punish. It is inadmissible that some other misapplications from 2005 have been pending. It should be seen and published by which judges are present and why they do not resolve it. The most effective penalty measure is the confiscation of the concession even if temporarily, because such a measure has a clear message and a positive effect not only on one but on all television owners. Because this measure hurts the most because it produces enormous financial damage and the reputation that I'm not talking about. The money is more sensitive to those who have it and the ones who don't have it. That's why I think that measure is very important. It is good that more and more often they punish not only television, i.e. electronic media already reporting data, footage insults the dignity of a person. The Croatian media area should be followed as soon as possible by an example of France that has gone into reform and re-design of public media. TV ads are gradually removed and are accessible to a better design of the programme, for which the most responsible person will also be the newly appointed director of public media in the future. At that time, we too would know who is doing what in the media space is doing and would be cleared up with today's mysteries of what is and who are even the owners of individual media in Croatia. Finally, this report should be commended once again because it is transparent to all media with clearly publicly listed shortcomings, which are intended to improve the development of electronic media. And for this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the above-mentioned report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21088	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We move on to an individual debate and is the first respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, at the beginning of two commendations. The first commendation is that you pointed out as a special problem for publishers on the islands. I'm glad you recognize that specificity, and in that sense, here's the first commendation. I have two more commendations. It is one commendation that it is here for the first time on page 10 in any official document to see the mark of the region of Dalmatia. So, when it comes to the area of concession, because for another region you listed which county is there, and here you mentioned the region of Dalmatia which, therefore, does not exist in the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. It's supposed to be four counties. I don't know how in some other counties other than Split-Dalmatia would react to this phenomenon. I'll look back on a few allegations from this report. First of all, it violates the provisions of the Electronic Media Act. I'd actually manage to identify the three most common types of violations. One is a number of commercials, which is absolutely certainly incorrect from the publishers to do so. The second is inappropriate content in appropriate terms or vice versa, although there are, of course, appropriate content in inappropriate terms such as the mess of political emissions ending around midnight. And the third thing is political promiscuity. So I'm going to try on these last two, to these other two things to say something. So as for inappropriate content, the largest number of such inappropriate content refers to, therefore, the broadcasting of programs that have erotic, pornographic, or other contents in time somewhere around 8 o'clock in the evening. However, there is another, for me, inappropriate content. In fact, we are witnessing numerous, frequent cases of inappropriate scans on sports grounds where commentators most often do not refer to such a case. I'm sure they didn't in 2007. They've been doing it lately. And I'm personally a witness regardless of whether it's of course football always causes increased emotions, and of course when it's touched in a beloved club, it's even more. However, for me, it is a fan song that is broadcast on radio stations most often in northern Croatia, and more rarely at national frequencies calling for violence with the verse “cutter, chain, boxer in head” also inappropriate. I don't see it in there. So that I think should also write about it. As far as political promotion is concerned, of course they are listed here, so that the zero tolerance of maltene is now on political promotion outside the election campaign. I don't think that should be a zero tolerance anymore. Of course, it is not in anyone's interest that politicians come out of the pastures as President Mesic once said in an election campaign. However, I think we should loosen that system up a little bit. So it should still be to some extent. It is, of course, necessary to see what measure it is to prescribe that, however, political parties can pay for the ad and advertise themselves. Of course, I don't think it should be infinite and unlimited right now, but in order to liberalise it a little bit, we had a report yesterday on the revision of political parties where now there is little transparency in the financing of political parties than it has been so far. I'd like to point out four more things now. The first thing on page 18 is the launch of a misdemeanor against Croatian radio television because it did not broadcast the third final match of Croatia's basketball championship between Cibona and Zadar in the programme on 9 June 2007. If I remember correctly the proposal was or was it a decision to punish Croatian television with a million kuna. Of course, unless a penalty has been passed, I think the fine for Croatian television is inappropriate because it would be paid to subscribers again. First you damage subscribers so you don't broadcast any programs, then you still punish the TV that's being financed from the subscription to pay for it. Otherwise, Croatia's sports programme can be freely called sports-football program because Croatia has Olympic medals in basketball, in water polo, in handball. On Croatian television, we can't see home championship games in either of those three sports. Now for basketball, it's a little bit improved. However, I think we should do something about it, so here's the thing, at least I have a chance to say something about it, so I'm gonna take that opportunity. In this sense, if the announced third Croatian TV programme will help. I would support, therefore, that smaller sports are broadcast on Croatian television and perhaps even lower class if already, perhaps even football, because such programs have Italy, Ray sport piu, have the Czech Republic, the fourth channel of Czech television, Slovakia has introduced the third, therefore there are such cases in the world and the same can be done. The other thing I'd like to say is, I can see that in the characterization of the movies you've used Internet movie given base, which is one of these pretty good websites, a pretty good database, so if you have time, we could even deal with it, since there's not only what genre, but there's an audience rating, they can actually see what movies are broadcast on television, of course the grades are divided by different categories. Well, here's a challenge for the next report. One more thing. In some children's shows, as well as in general the shows we see on all three national televisions, I find too much use of localism, most often in Zagreb's pronunciation, because children in Dalmatia don't have to know what rocking means, which means squares and things like that used in the daily speech of the leader, and I think that should also be introduced, take care of that, I'm not now asking these leaders to speak chain and similar words, so that this is even. I think that, therefore, at least on children's shows, if not in some others, we hold back a little from localism because it is Croatian television, not television from a particular region. Also, some radio stations use characters that have an excuse also local to be recognized, either Dalmatian or sometimes Albanian expressions of Croatian or language, as it is already called where in some ways people who say so are still being demeaned and most often portrayed as the subject of ridicule. I don't think that's good, and I think we should take care of that, too. And the last thing I'd like to mention, which is what you said in your opening statement, is Internet portals. I don't know where the border the portals should look, which they don't. So it's not there now it's too big a number. However, I think that at least we could comment on the content of some portals that are the largest in their viewers, especially the comments that are below where there are mostly hate speech, xenophobia, fascism and other phenomena that should not be tolerated. Here, with these comments, I believe the report is correct and there is no reason not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21090	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Your debate led two colleagues to a replica. And now, first Agent Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21091	Thank you very much. My colleague Bauk, you mentioned the promotional activity of a young SDP forum, i.e. the sanctioning of certain emissions and media and political promotion, and I see that there has been a mention of one promotional activity in the announcement of a youth SDP forum, but I also noticed in the media that there was an initiative to sanction the transmission of 8 local TV stations to the HDZ group on 30 June, and I don't see it here in the report, especially knowing that these transfers have been paid and can be subdued under promotion, so here I am taking the opportunity to ask directly the members of the agency to tell us why there is no and if anything has happened on this issue. And secondly, I think that this provision can have a positive effect and you don't need parties out of the campaign to advertise, announce gatherings and so on, but it's totally illogical to say that in the written media you can, and that in electronics you can't. That you can't on the portal, and then again in the morning on the portal you can't, and in the morning in printed form you can. So that's where the practice should be evened out. And as for this song you mentioned, it's not a fan song, it's a song of a group from Zagreb. I also agree, even though I'm a fan of a club whose anthem is that I shouldn't use the expressions of violence in cheerleading songs, it might be a better situation in the stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21092	Thank you very much. Replication response, Agent Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21093	I thank my colleague. You mentioned the June 30th rally. It is written on page 19 by TV because on June 30, 2007, she broadcast software content under the auspices of the political foundation of the Croatian National Testament whose trustee is the Croatian Democratic Union and so on. So that's correct, but it was a general assembly, so it was one set that we all know what it was about. I personally don't mind the HDZ paying to broadcast it, in the end I'm also interested in what you have to say because, of course, with most of it, especially if you paid to see it. Well, there's no problem with that, but, of course, as long as this law is in force, no matter what I am for mild mitigation of such a provision, as the ruling party, you had a great responsibility not to do it, and of course let me, I don't mind if the citizens see that there's only one left of three times seven. One week from that meeting, and we'll see what happens after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21094	Thank you very much. The second is the replica of the esteemed representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21095	Dear Vice President, here's my colleague, Bauk, who touched the key things about political promotion, and that will be my question, in fact, what I'm going to sort of refer to. And also, I absolutely support the introduction of order when it comes to political promotion and what I have to ask as a question, and especially from the programming council are criteria, means the criteria to be assessed when a single advertisement, when a single advertising video can or cannot become an advertising video at the time of the political party's election campaign. Namely, what do I mean by apostrophe? What is the procedure, which is the procedure for the individual advertising video to be rejected because, if I remember correctly, at the time before the parliamentary elections itself, we were witnessing actually the banning of a single Croatian party of rights which had elements of a photodocumented recent past from events related to Split, along the Split coast and I am interested in what are the elements by which it decides whether the video deserves to be part of the party's promotion when it already pays it at the time of the election campaign, or it doesn't deserve to be. So who decides on that and on the basis of what objective criteria. Here, that's what's actually part of the question and, of course, on the trail of what my colleague Bauk said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21096	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21097	Thank you. It's no accident that this political promotion is being talked about a lot, the more the mere little and relative definition and the time of the campaign. We are witnesses except for all these national elections, we have more local choices. In Osijek, there were every few local elections, and with such a bill on election of mayors and mayors where there is no more de facto crossing the council but there will have to be new elections again if the mayor is to be changed. Such a provision will be further obtained on absurdity. I therefore think that, in any case, during the time that comes, such a provision is inappropriate and that an appropriate, agreed manner should be tempered or amended. Because really on the portals, on "Youtube" where someone who understands in technique actually sees no difference between television and what's on "Youtube," for example, except the advantage of what on "Youtube" you can always watch and on TV only when it's at a certain time. Therefore, I think that the regulation is a little bit outdated now and that this should in some way be tempered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21098	Thank you very much. An individual discussion of the distinguished representative Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21099	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. President-in-Office of the Council, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will support the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media for that period and I must commend this report, because in my opinion, the report is well prepared, comprehensive, transparent and really full of information. The report shows that the Council has successfully implemented and controlled the implementation of the Law on Electronic Media which regulates rights, obligations, liability of legal and natural persons carrying out the activities of the production and publication of software content and services through electronic media. In due time, the Council opened an invitation to tender for the award of concessions for radio and television activities, awarded concessions for the performance of the activity, but, in particular, took away concessions permanently and temporarily, and initiated infringement proceedings and gave notice when infringements of the law were established. In particular, I would like to highlight the positive role of the Pluralism Fund and the diversity of electronic media, which, as an incentive for different software content, has granted a total of 28 million kuna support mainly to local radios and TV homes that are more than welcome. One of the Council's basic tasks is to ensure supervision of the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of electronic media publishers. The report shows that 44 indirect and 5 direct controls were carried out in 24 publishers. Personally, I would like more direct controls to be carried out, as it is evident from the report that frequent violations of the programming principles and obligations of the publishers are. And the other parts of the report as financial are I would say more than correct and from all of this I will support, as I said, this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21100	Thank you, Mr. Representative. The next one reported for the debate is the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Council of Electronic Media, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I fully support the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media in the period from 1 November 2006 to 31 December 2007, which was delivered by the Agency for Electronic Media to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption and on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a positive opinion. Here are colleagues from the opposition who positively and commendably expressed this report, that they were part of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, and I am sure that this report would have passed on to the Committee, and not to the votes cast 5:5 is not a committee, the parent board had no opinion on the report, or has not passed. Why do I commend and support this report? The report is critical enough towards the state and phenomena in electronic media from its jurisdiction and self-critical in a segment in which certain qualitative shifts can and must be made within the electronic media agency itself, for which they have my support. It is necessary to use a positive climate for so many necessary shifts and state-of-the-art in the field of electronic media. I would like to stress immediately that I also support the announced change in the submission of the Council's report in the next period, which will be in line with the calendar and fiscal year, as the President of the Council said in his opening address. I will also commend the methodology of making the report which, as for the previous years, transparently and clearly substantiated all the topics discussed by the Council at its meetings as well as the decisions made by it. If I didn't repeat what the predecessors said, I would still point to just a few facts. We have heard the number of publishers, the number of concessions, and we have heard about ownership and what level of concessions of commercial publishers, but I will therefore commend on the number of concessions and publishers in the Republic of Croatia, I welcome in the report that the Council followed the direction of the Ministry of Finance in the concession procedure, which will, among other things, prevent the further economic unwarranted depletion of the electronic media market, no matter how much in our respective environments and in certain cases, be less or more appropriate, I speak for a future time. Let us not forget that the total income on behalf of the annual concession fee of all commercial broadcasters of radio and television activity in Croatia was about, i.e. almost 4 million kuna in 2007. Let us not forget that the council has had, the Council for Electronic Media has had 28.3 million kunas, which, through the Fund for the Encouragement of pluralism and diversity of electronic media, has shared with the media at local and regional level, which are of public interest. I particularly welcome the timely adoption and publication of a public tender which was in the month of January 2007 and the distribution of funds in May 2007, so I think that this council and the assembly of councils is on the right track to see in this positive climate with both publishers and concessionaries to shape the situation in electronic media to that level that we care about in the Republic of Croatia, not only because of the European Union, but also because of ourselves. The concessions were divided last year, the council divided 65 seems to me a concession, two of which were, only two new radio activities, and one new for television. However, in addition to this assignment, the Council made decisions on the permanent confiscation of concessions for two radio houses and one decision to suspend the concession. I'm not gonna mention who now. Why am I saying this? So now I'm connecting the story of concessions and these criminal charges and warnings. In fact, we have heard of criminal charges that the matter is in criminal courts and in the Croatian judiciary, but colleagues and colleagues we also have in the law a provision, Article 70. The law on electronic media says with a fine of up to a million kuna, a legal person will be punished for a violation that, and then we still have that 24 item. Now I'm asking if there's any question at all, I'm asking the Director, or the President of the Council for Electronic Media, if we have a court bang that the Court of Justice has decided, not now for these in 2007, because we heard at the time of the report that we have no answer, but do we? This is the 2003 law, it was complemented in 2007, so over the past five years we had to get at least one court ruling or practice to see how to solve it. Otherwise, we're going to have to do something about the law, because it doesn't make sense that we have provisions of this law that don't apply. And the same thing when it comes to violations. And when we talk about warnings, it doesn't matter who spent monitoring, and I won't even talk about what television is national, one commercial national television, but it really doesn't make sense to read on the 48 pages that it's in the period analyzed, and it's from 27 November to 6 December. So it's not that long a period, it's not that long a period. In 409 cases, Article 17(1) was violated because the publisher did not clearly separate the advertising blocks from other parts of the programme content. In the period from 20 to 25 December, he then violated the same article and the same item 247 times. It means that he, he has no intention of doing it. We heard here that, therefore, how much notice can be taken away from the concession. Namely, what does it mean if the council is in constant violation of the provisions of the law through the monitoring carried out? Unless we come here and I support the Council and the Electronic Media Agency, the Director, who is also the chairman of the Council for Electronic Media. Do they take this seriously in the next period, because I find this situation unsustainable, and that in the end we have to have courage no matter who it's been working on. At one point obviously, what my colleague Kunst said, he took away the concession, so at least temporarily, for at least an hour, but to know that the laws of this country must be respected. I will also commend the efforts, and I will support what the reporter said, which is that it will work on the personnel team, the Council for Electronic Media, so that monitoring can be conducted directly in the coming years. Clearly, in these cases too, there will be something that will have to be indirect monitoring and someone will have to pay for something, but I think that the Council for Electronic Media is both spatial and humane seas, it must be allowed for quality work in the next period. This is what I say by supporting and once again commending the 2007 work report, regardless of the one or two months of 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21102	Thank you, Madam Representative. And the last debate individual to this agenda item is the one reported by the distinguished representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What I would like to point out in my debate, but perhaps ask some additional questions, so I would kindly ask if it is possible to answer. It is related to the problem of software content, which is why publishers offer through a public tender to obtain funds, so to compete for funds from the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media. In fact, the other day, we had a meeting of the Committee on Gender Equality, in fact, to discuss this report. In particular, there was a question about the problem of creating and broadcasting software content which deals particularly with gender equality issues, but I would also say human rights in general, therefore, with everything in the area. In fact, the report shows that for the past year, 28 million 272 thousand and 515 kuna were deployed, some of which, slightly more than 14 million kunas went to 130 radio publishers, and 20 television publishers, a little over 13 million and 800 thousand kuna went to them. When I looked. So it can't be different to figure out what it's about, but according to the name of the show whether it is, so we're trying to figure out by the name of the show what these shows might be about, what they're really about, and then I found that for 2007, when it comes to gender equality issues, that is, the development of gender equality of 130 radio publishers, I found two people who, in my assessment, could be subjected to this programme content, one of which is Osijek, who has a single gender and sex minority emissions, and MT ether d.o.o. "Radio Martin" with a show called women's profession. Why am I saying this? I am saying this because I am aware that we have completed Article 57 with the amendment committee. The law on electronic media, where we have specifically singled out that from the funds of the pluralism fund and the diversity of electronic media, additional funding and programmes promoting creativity in Croatian languages are being financed, and that encourage the development of awareness of gender equality. Since we received one piece of information at the board's session that this year, a much larger number of programmes relating to this particular issue of gender awareness development are actually going to be a little bit of a problem for me. Does that mean, say for the past year, it was really over so that I would say nothing to those who responded to the competition precisely with these programs or were there, so the council felt no need to finance them, or to take them into account, or so this provision really suddenly woke up to say the creation of these people on the ground, who, as a matter of fact, decided to create programs, or shows that would promote awareness of gender equality. Why is that bothering me? It bothers me because in the Law on Electronic Media, we have an article 12 that speaks specifically about what the software content of publishers who carry out radio and television activities, including those who speak one item that says, promote international understanding and public sense of justice, defend democratic freedoms, serve environmental protection, fight for equality between women and men. So let me say similar provisions, there were, or there were, both earlier in and from earlier in Article 12. Another thing I'm very interested in. In any way, and whether anyone assesses, or estimates me to say these emissions, and the programmes for which the funds are allocated from this fund. Is there any way to assess whether the quality and content of what we have in the context of any kind of local radio and local television really corresponds to what is stated in the public competition, or to what extent it is quality? I'm asking that because the monitoring question that's been given here is also in this report. I went to see that he's in the front row when it comes to monitoring members who go by the council, so he's doing business on a certain application. Someone reports something of suspicion, I can see that they're acting on anonymous reports, and that other part of them that monitors someone outside the council, so I'm guessing the council hired him. I don't think I've been playing, but it seems to me that mostly goes on how many commercials have been given, they've broken the minute in commercials, they've given these commercials the right way, in the right place, etc. I'm also curious about... whether the council has worked so far, I guess it hasn't, because I don't see it from the report, whether we're going to work in a way that we're trying to organize at least part of the work in a way that goes into the field and whether or not someone has filed a complaint or not. That's what I'm interested in. So, in whatever way it is possible for you to assess the quality of what goes on in the public tender, but who is then in charge that after that, after some show goes, after the money is spent etc. who assesses, in the end, whether this product corresponds to what was written in the public competition. I think it's actually very important because I think it's in our interest that these money that goes, that it's really going towards those publishers who create programs that are quality regardless of which area they specialize in. So I'd like to pray here in that sense that you might eventually try to explain. And what I'm interested in is that it's not listed here. I'm interested in what authorized companies have been monitoring, because it seems to me like a lot of money and spending, and I know it's costing everything. Because in this financial report, it says that the monitoring costs in 2007 amounted to a million and 655 thousand 784 kuna. I suppose that's also the cost of probably going to council members on the ground, but I think the report should stand and what are the authorized companies that have been monitoring. Here, therefore, I believe that the 2008 report will be much richer with software content that I find personally interesting, but I think it should not be just for me, but for the good part of the citizens, that it will be much more favourable than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21104	Thank you very much. No more reports. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21105	Mr. President, honourable MPs and respected MPs. Noting questions for... How not to say the sentence thank you for all the remarks without it sounding empty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I don't know how different it is to say, except for the fact that I am. I would like to express my gratitude on behalf of all my colleagues at the agency, but also the members of the council on the fact that we have discussed this, we have debated that I hope and I am sure that we will do so in the future. I'll say a few basic notes, but I'd like to take the opportunity to answer some questions first. I'll start at the end, because it's closest to me. It comes with age, you can see that. You can't hide that. So let's get this straight because it's very important because she's back talking to the fund again. The funds can't be won if you don't compete. In this report and in this period ahead of us, I am trying to choose words, an unacceptable few publishers have run for gender equality programs. I hope I said this nicely. For the last year you will have a report and I personally hope not at the end of the year, but a little earlier I will tell you the information. 143 radios competed for a category of software content that stimulates information and encourages otherwise gender equality stories. Of 143, they competed. 75 of them received funds for these programs. Of 21 TVs, 9 of them competed only for gender equality programmes this year. May I say that they never competed before because they didn't do it, although the law says that's why they didn't think they'd get the money. It's a question for the publisher. I could pull the construction if they started competing when we put it as a special item. I hope what else we put in the rule book will be an incentive. If we say that this is a special incentive to hire people with disabilities, special programs that help people with disabilities. I hope that all of them will be signaled, even if it means getting a piece of funding from the fund and we think that's also going to be enriching the program. Monitoring direct, indirect, each other. The Council shall receive any application and shall not be signed. For everyone, he's looking for what he has to do and it's a recording. A colleague once asked me what normal man is looking for a recording of what was on TV last night. If it was there, then what's there to look for? Of course, there are procedures etc. You must know that. The video is also requested for what is the application of the state institution, parents, anonymous listener, viewers, but it's really small and inappropriate if it wasn't for some other relations of monitoring, I don't like that expression, monitoring the software content of electronic media, which is. One of them is direct surveillance. I don't want to glorify him here while we're looking at seven council members. A tour of 200 publishers is something that is unnecessary to explain how direct we are. These are mostly excesses, border cases where you have to go to see and really determine to what extent this has gone to, so it's done. The agencies we hired are Media Meter, Media Net and Edith Editoris. Those aren't secrets. These are three registered in Croatia. I may have been able to, or should, or dropped them by accident. They will be elected under the Public Procurement Act in each of the following monitoring committees and electronic media agencies. He'll get the best bidder. But they won't be alone either, because it's small too. There's also direct surveillance of us, and if you want us involved and living with it like you all do at home, but with some special attention that we must have toward everyone. And of course another whole force of state interested and all other users. And who is it today who is not a user of electronic publications. So, I wanted to say that somewhere for the end, thank you very much for all the remarks. We're not running away from the fact that what's waiting for us is a big bite. I don't want to say that we're fully prepared for that. I said that the current moment is to strengthen administrative, spatial and technical and all other capacities because it will be necessary to do what we do. I'll give you one example. The software content that the concessionaries competed with and we gave them funds from the fund. 164 applications came this year. On average, each of these publishers sent at least ten software content. That's a thousand 640 shows. Each council member has reviewed and listened to all of the thousands of 640 shows because it is the only way for each publisher to give the number of points that at the end of the week only make up the total number of points because all council members have to look at it, listen to it so that they can say what it is, and give it back one week. It's clear to you that that one week means you can't stretch someone out. If you extend it to the limit it's again once a week out of seven grades. So much for the fact that it's all about. So that's it, I'm not going to talk about European experiences about how many agencies and councils the bodies are and how many they are, etc. There's no need to compare. I'll say one last thing. What I'm especially grateful for, is what I'm going to bring out of the assembly. The sentence is that the critical mass of unacceptable content in electronic media and, above all, television has gone beyond measure. I sincerely hope that given the determination and willingness of the council that the penalties they will bring in the future will be, whether there is an appropriate term for stricter than they are and that this support will otherwise be when they are brought. I wouldn't want to say that we're a country where in the end you don't achieve anything if you don't bring the most drastic measure. It may be an hour and a day, and a lot but it seems to me that the time has come seems to me that it will be inevitable. And one last sentence. I'm the last one to talk about separation in political power. In that sense, we mean in the first quarter of the agency to organize a round table, a fourth or whatever, to talk to representatives of the criminal courts on the subject of telling us whether we are wrong in this application and that none of our misdemeanors see the light of day and are pointless. Let them tell us if there's anything else we should do that makes sense, or if it only makes sense. It took us four years to get the answer he just told us we were in charge. Now, if we know anything else, we're in charge. So far, it's been slow because of course whoever you report will be complaining about and that's what's going on. Now we know we're in charge, but that jurisdiction doesn't guarantee whether in a year, two, three, or not, it's going to be an out-of-date application that... I say, there are others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a warning. It's pointless to talk when you accumulate a number of warnings that are absurd in itself. And where does that lead? So for this support that the amount and critical mass of unacceptable content of such terms, such as those, I will go with the belief that when certain sanctions and measures are filed for this, regardless of the council and agencies, and then have all the support for such a thing. I'm supposed to be the most ground floor demagogue right now, so say it's in the interest of all of us, our children, all of us, watching that TV and using electronic publications anyway. It seems to me in this atmosphere and among colleagues and structures standing here completely inappropriately and deplaced to speak. And one sentence I stayed in debt. There were a lot of questions about the time of promiscation and the violation of the law. I'll say something. One part of the remarks that colleagues made regarding the programme council on HRT, not the Council on Electronic Media and the Agency, but it doesn't change that to things, I think we're all actually on the same job. Whether this time of 30 days that has been resolved by the fact that beyond that everything else that is promiscuous but paid, everything that is outside the law of the prescribed promiscuous time is not prohibited if it is not paid. What was paid or sponsored by political... Will that change? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have countries where it's normal to advertise for a whole year whoever they want, etc. Well, that's the closing line. You will, of course, also find a proposal to amend, whether there will still be an amendment or a new one but certainly an amendment to the Law on Electronic Media throughout the whole year I think next year and then there will be an opportunity to hope that we all work together on it. Thank you again for your trust and forgive me if I strangled you in these late hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21106	I would like to thank Mr. Zdravko Kaja, President of the Council for Electronic Media. This debate is also closed and we will vote on the point when the conditions are met. This is what we are done with today's work of the Croatian Parliament. For today, that's enough for a number of reasons. We end today's work. Tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. It continues with the proposal for a national chemical security strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-27-0.u21107	10th, Report on the work of the Council on Electronic Media from 1 November 2006 to 31 December 2007. The proposal is proposed by the Council for Electronic Media. The debate is closed. I am voting in conclusion in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: "The report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media in the period from 1 November 2006 to 31 December 2007 is accepted. A year.". Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? This report was accepted by the majority with 75 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 35 against. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're continuing with the session we're predicting if it's in order around 13 hours would be a vote. It's already gotten a little bit into tradition so that we don't change anything here if there's no special reason, so I'm asking the clubs and the MPs to be in the assembly at 13 o'clock, they'll bring the keys to our success this week. We're moving on to the next point. - Proposal for a National Chemical Security Strategy, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 59. The Chemical Act was submitted by the Government to this proposal. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Health and Social Care. Do the proposing representatives want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Mr Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
