ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9566	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the Croatian State Administration are in the wake of reforms to bring our administrative system into line with the standards of the European Union and we have already passed a number of laws and we are applying them that concern the state administration itself. I would like to highlight the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Central Authorities of the Government, the Law on the System of State Administration, the Law on Civil Service Officers, and in less than a month before the Parliament, there will be a Law on Working Relations in the Local Self-Government, and I believe until the start of the summer break and a new Law on General Administrative Procedure. In the draft legislation on harmonisation with the European Union, it was also necessary to provide for the adoption of a new Law on Administrative Inspection. The administrative inspection believes in the Republic of Croatia, believes in the Central State Administration Office and implements a law that has been in its entirety since 1986, with the necessary modernisations that required the adoption, with the independence of Croatia, the introduction of a new system of state administration and local self-government. Since we have circled the structure of the body of the state government, we have passed new legislation regarding officials. That there will be a new legislation for local officials by summer. In this year, the new General Administrative Procedure Act will also be adopted, and we believe that we must pay great attention to the monitoring of the implementation of these laws. In addition to administrative supervision, inspection supervision is very important because it will also affect the protection of labour relations of about 70,000 which state-owned as local officials. It will certainly oversee the internal structure, whether it is in accordance with the government's law and regulations. In addition to inspection supervision, citizens will also be subject to complaints and will be affected by a system of local self-government in order to apply laws in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia which are in the course of this administrative inspection. We prescribe strict conditions for candidates for administrative inspectors especially for the chief administrative inspector. We prescribe what activity and what it can and can do. We also prescribe protection mechanisms against administrative inspector acts, and we believe that this is a modern law that will contribute to the more effective work of the state administration body. Specifically, the special emphasis of administrative inspection will set against those authorities of the state administration where treatment is to be pending, where the deadlines provided for by specific laws on the resolution of certain administrative matters are to be violated because it is unacceptable for the state administration to address the right of citizens for too long. We believe that only the existence of an administrative inspection, one of its announced surveillance will already act as a general prevention. Therefore, in part and in fear of punishment, the authorities of the state administration will, in fear of the inspection finding, already take their work more seriously than before in the protection of public interest but in particular in the protection of the rights and interests of citizens. This law is discussed on all working bodies, but it is also discussed on the Economic and Social Council and has received full support. We have received some amendments to the Legislative Committee during the debate on committees, which we will accept to the greatest extent. There are one or two controversial amendments. We'll clear this up at the end of the debate when it's time to vote. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the government is proposing that this law be adopted by emergency procedure so that this instrument of administrative inspection can act more effectively in the protection of public interest and the interests of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9567	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9568	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the proposal for a law on administrative inspection, which has been submitted by the government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament on 15 May 2008. Given the fact that the current Law on Administrative Inspection has become almost inapplicable and ineffective and given the changes to the systems that followed since its adoption in 1986, we consider it necessary to approach the adoption of a new law on administrative inspection. The proposal for a law shall elaborate the supervision of administrative inspection in the implementation of the rules governing the system of state administration, the regulation governing the system of local and regional, regional self-government, the rules governing official relations at national and local level, and the rules governing the general administrative procedure and specific administrative procedures, in particular to monitor the legality of the work and conduct of the authorities of the state administration, the bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, and the legality of the acts and decisions taken in the field of official relations of employees in the state and local administration. The establishment of administrative inspections itself shall be determined by the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for the system of state administration and local, regional (regional) self-government. However, it is possible to set up district units or independent executives of administrative inspectors outside the headquarters of an administrative inspection, and this will certainly allow for more economic and efficient control of specific units of local and regional (regional) self-government. In addition, the draft law prescribes not only the rights and duties of administrative inspectors, the conditions which must be met, the supervisory procedure, but also the mechanisms of control of the work of the administrative inspector and the higher level of responsibility compared to other officials for the particularly prescribed infringements of the official duty. The same method of carrying out inspection surveillance was developed through direct inspection of direct insight into general and individual acts in the controlled body as well as specific inspection controls and certainly the duties of supervised bodies related to the conduct of inspection controls. The minutes shall determine the shortcomings in the work of the supervised body and determine the appropriate time limit for the removal of them. Furthermore, the proposed law prescribes the inspector's obligation to report to the body to which the head of the supervised body is responsible if it does not act according to the minutes, or unless it removes the illegality, irregularity or lack of work, thereby achieving the basic objectives of monitoring the administrative inspection in ensuring the legality of work and the conduct of decision-making on the rights of citizens by the state and local authorities. In view of all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community believes that the adoption of this new Law on Administrative Inspection, which will allow for more effective exercise of inspection supervision as well as more effective exercise of citizens' rights, and certainly control of the consistency of both the public of work and the conduct of all the authorities of the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9569	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9570	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Administrative Inspection, with the Final Proposal of the Law, indeed believing that such a law is needed to control the work of the State Administration Authority, but also other state bodies, units of local and regional (regional) self-government, and the conduct of legal persons with public authority under those powers. And as explained in this proposal, the law states, therefore, the aim of this bill is to enable, first of all, the measures proposed in the law to prevent the illegal handling of bodies with public powers. In fact, we are still witnessing the devastating facts, and this is absolutely evident from the report and statistics of the Administrative Court on the illegal treatment of the body with public powers which is clearly degraded by Croatia as a legal state. Therefore, there are still a large number of cases which are being sued by citizens, complaining to the Administrative Court about violations of their rights that have caused and caused public authorities. What I would particularly like to point out is that more than the law itself, which is here and from the nomotechnical point of view, there is almost no objection, is exactly one will above all those political powers that are in power, that they really stop every lawlessness. Because although there is no good law as it seems to me that this Bill on Administrative Inspection is, if there is one bad will that we do not get really good governance, that the administration is depolitized to the limits and that in the administrative bodies, that is, in the administration, our national administration, but also in local administration, people who are really competent, who are capable and who have their professional ambition to advance in these services regardless of politics, i.e. the shifts of political furniture. It's something that we're all going to publicly declare, but is that what this is and is the situation in practice? We can see from the report by the attorney general that there are numerous injuries in the field of official and labour relations. Appeals in the field of official relations are mostly related to infringements of the right in procedures relating to admission to the state and local service, termination and service, transfer to the service, making available, and strict procedures. These actions are not an exception, but they are a number of actions, and that is something to take care of. The Law on civil servants and tenants which has ceased to apply to civil servants and to the undersigned by the law on civil servants, but which is in reality. It continued to apply to local officials and tenants as well as to the start and unfinished procedures of the state service under the earlier law. Law enforcement complaints were filed by officials and deputies employed by state bodies, local and regional (regional) authorities, the Armed Forces, even security services. There are also a number of infringements in the application of the Law on civil servants, which set out that competition procedures in the state service and the exercise of the rights and obligations and responsibilities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be regulated by regulations and other implementing and specific procedures. However, the non-compliance of all the necessary regulations and numerous doubts in the application of certain provisions in the state service procedure prescribed by that law was of an impact on the infringement of the rights of the complainant and their inequality before the law. It's almost all said in a report by the attorney general. A number of procedures are also accepted with the consent of the head of the body in which the selected candidate is working. Perhaps one of the most picturesque examples speaks of the still unpreparedness of the ruling to remove politicisation in the administration. Here's what the attorney general says. The complainant who took part in the tendering procedure for admission to the State service and because of those doubts in the application of Article 46. The law on civil servants, the suspension of the tender procedure in which it took part as a state official of another state body, has, contrary to the regulations of the reasons, remained without state service indefinitely in the current state body, although it was the best candidate and the best results it had and was best ranked by all candidates. So we are being tested on individual cases, but not even by the quality of the law itself, but by how much these laws are respected, or how many provisions are being played. The status of tenants in state bodies is also problematic. According to the Law on civil servants, the status of subsistence staff and the procedure for the establishment of the employment relationship of subsistence persons in state bodies is governed by general labour regulations and the Regulation on the classification of posts and salaries of subsistence members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has not been adopted. However, as a result of the failure to adopt this Regulation on status, rights and obligations of the tenants, labour contracts cannot be concluded and the relevant infringements are also referred to by the Advocate General himself. Furthermore, one high length of proceedings for failure to comply with the rulings of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. And now the question is, how and are these norms provided for by the proposal for a law on administrative inspection, so when the inspector finds such injuries in the administrative inspection, will the deafness of these bodies, which is the administrative inspection, or for which the chief inspector in the administrative inspection, determine the irregularities? Because his decision cannot resuscitate the act of the body that has taken such an illegal act. So how long is the time period, how long will he keep quiet about it? Because we have, unfortunately, a very negative experience of not respecting the verdicts of the administrative court. Therefore, the body for which the administrative court has found that it has unlawfully acted on the harm of individuals and has abolished such an illegal act, the most common solution, does not happen after that for years. Some types of violations of the rights of state local officials are indeed causing huge concerns. First of all, the transfer of officials due to the need for service, then the availability of officials for the removal of the body or workplace, and the violation of the right to advantage in the employment of Croatian defenders. They are no exception, and therefore they require our special attention, even on occasion, and on their own occasion on this proposal for a law on administrative inspection. Examples our public knows about. The recent example of Judge Juricic, although not the authority of these bodies, is especially the procedure. But I'm talking about the will because for crazy good laws, if it isn't such a political climate that they will unreservedly respect. Then a case a few years ago by the former President of the Administrative Court. A recent case here by a waiter who's been transferred without a solution, who can't exercise his right because there's no act. The President, former President of the Administrative Court and Judge Juricic as judges of the administrative court who have ruled against the Republic of Government and in favour of the complainant for violation of the Information Access Act. Why is administrative inspection in particular now authorized? Thus, it is obvious that such protection did not bear fruit either, but it was therefore the result of those actors who established such legality. These things can't and can't happen. As I noted, the greatest abuses occur in the transfer of the service because of the need for service. And that may also be the most visible in a service where a public tender is not required in secret services, where a particular institute is played, where people are accepted in such services without competitions, and then pro-circulated into the system for the sake of God’s service needs. It's not a small number of people. And that's what people know. And then, with great mistrust, they look to even new acts and good laws if they are not respected, or when it is possible to abuse them. Because abuse of law is not the right thing to do. The transfer of officials because of the need for service, the biggest injuries occur in a way that does not explain themselves at all why these are legal reasons for the service’s needs. It is simply explained that such a servant is needed elsewhere because of the need for service. But that's not a legal explanation. It is merely a reference and a copying of the law, and it is also very well spoken by the Ombudsman because these situations are almost not an exception, but a rule. What happens to those people who insist on exercising their rights? Because it is known that the rights stemming from the law can't just happen if an individual doesn't fight for his rights, and thus relives the old Latin that the rights belong to those who fight for them. But what happens to those people who insist on exercising their rights? Against such people, it also draws attention to the Ombudsman, it begins to carry out disciplinary actions that would never be carried out or initiated if such an official or a substitute did not claim his right. It is also regrettable that there have been frequent injuries in the recruitment of Croatian defenders, that competitions are being annulled precisely to avoid the reception of these competitors. These are obvious injuries, and then in such cases, and that is often done by the heads of the administrative bodies, when they are clearly not fit by the candidate, when they have no objections to this candidate, then the possibility of repeating the competition is misused. It's just nobody's choice. And that's a clear signal, a clear message to those candidates not to run at all, because they won't be elected. We have a case a few months ago just in the competition for a place under the new law, i.e. by amendments to the Penal Code, when two candidates for a place in the penitentiary were running. He passed one with an explanation, a correct explanation that this candidate is still better. A candidate, a master of penology science, has not been admitted. She's running for office again, the prison manager's seat now, the only candidate she's ever known to be a good candidate before, but now that she's the only candidate, she's not elected, the contest's been canceled. The obvious abuse, almost drawn in a sensitive penal system when we have the staff, where we need the staff, and especially the staff of such qualifications, very rare in Croatia, so the master of penological sciences. This is noteworthy that the SDP club will support this law on administrative inspection, but it will also remain a dead letter on paper if this law is not respected, if it is possible to abuse the law without anything happening to anyone, that those who determine such irregularities, if they have such professional and civil courage, have just so far been punished in one way or another. Either they are disabled in progress or even against them are driven and forced disciplinary procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9571	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9572	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I would like to point out at the outset that this law absolutely needs to be supported as well as the urgency in terms of procedure and its adoption, because it does in a quality way solves administrative inspection in one place, in general by one law and a lot of situations as problematic situations that we have had in this area in terms of the implementation of the Law on Inspection, so difficulty or inaccuracy, inaccuracy, just as such should be removed or corrected. But let me also say, first of all, that this is just one in a series of laws that will be proposed to this High House, which is exactly the area of administration and all of these difficulties or problems that we have heard about here and from this pay phone, will be reduced to the least possible measure, and first of all I mean the law that would regulate as a special law, working relationships at the level of units of local and regional self-government on the one hand, and, of course, this new Law on general administrative procedure which, with new, more modern institutes, would actually solve this whole administrative procedure or disputed situations in a quality way, and thus, the whole area within the framework of the administration that applies to both inspection and working relations and to the implementation of the procedure in a truly quality way and to remove all the ambiguities or difficulties that have occurred so far in practice. So, unanimous support for this law goes when concrete legal provisions are analysed, so in terms of answering the question what is proposed by this concrete law. So let me point out the two basics that seem unusually important to me highlighted in the debate, because these institutes are elaborated and explained really in a quality way. The proposed law foresees to regulate the structure, but also the mode of work, the rights and duties of administrative inspection in the context of which and the tasks of administrative inspection, as well as the content of the minutes, the objection to the minutes itself, the procedure for the objection, the control of the enforcement of the measures laid down in that procedure and the conduct of the representations as well as the initiatives of other bodies for the handling of the responsibility of the administrative inspector and the criminal provision itself. In the law itself, mechanisms are also developed, which is very important to highlight, the control of the work of the administrative inspector. Therefore, the administrative inspector of this regulation also has provisions which are indeed what is said and strictly to be followed, and as mechanisms of control of the work of the administrative inspector, firstly, the possibility of submitting itself to the minutes should be highlighted. The reasons why the inspector's record can be disproved are, of course, incorrectly and incompletely established facts, misapplication of the rules and over-execution of powers in the exercise of supervision by the inspector, indicating, of course, that this law sets out these very powers strictly. Therefore, in a concrete procedure which the inspector has and that the transfer of those powers or beyond the provisions of the law itself falls within those mechanisms of control of the inspector himself and the possibility of objecting by such means, I would say not to act competently. Furthermore, criminal provisions in this law or sanctions are very good at dealing with those situations when we have or answer a question, and what if, according to the minutes or on the orders of the inspection, they do not act in a specific situation. These criminal provisions or sanctions, although they are neither mentioned in the law as being primary, since, of course, the inspector acting in a particular situation is the primary role not to punish but to warn of certain situations that are not in accordance with the law, that where they could be corrected legally, but in those situations where there is an obvious violation of certain provisions, certain fines are prescribed, namely the amount of fines indicated, so sanctions in terms of non-compliance and sanctions which will certainly, in certain circumstances, prevent illegal treatment in all segments of the jurisdiction of inspection supervision carried out under this law itself, under the proposed law. The important quality of this regulation is that now, by virtue of this law, it will be possible to actually look at and see all of those in one place, I would dare say the disputed situations that arise when an official acts locally, regionally when it comes to such a position that he is often not sure whether he is acting in accordance with the law, in which sense directs his own action, so that his conduct in a particular situation does not come under this law, or that, in the inspection procedure itself, he would not be exposed to certain sanctions which the inspector himself can bring under this law. In any case, the situation in normative and any other sense improves this Law. And the moment we have that link, so strictly and specifically, the regulated and working-legal relationship between these employees at local and regional levels on the one hand, when we have the provisions of the new General Administrative Procedure Act, I would dare say better normative assumptions within which absolutely this administration system of ours, the system of public administration, will operate by far, far, far. And therefore, that all of these problems that we have an opportunity to hear about, listen, which arise as problems in the functioning of these administrative segments will, not only be reduced to the least possible measure, but a large number of these problems that we now see, which are in practice, will actually be regulated in this way not only will they not be able to emerge as problems but will normally be resolved in a way that will be and related to applying regulations to citizens, therefore, and also to those who carry out this process much easier to carry out the process, a far clearer situation, we will have an absolutely better situation in this area of administration. Accordingly, this regulation should be supported, and the urgency in terms of its adoption should be supported. It is an absolute quality solution to the matter of administrative inspection and my opinion is that it is a quality regulation that will improve the normative situation or apply these provisions in everyday life, and also related to the application of provisions to those concerned, make their work far easier for them in terms of the conduct and application of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9573	Thank you. Finally, Deputy State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office Pavle Maticic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9574	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate, in support of this proposal for a law on administrative inspection. This law is closely surrounded by one law mosaic within the framework of the laws governing the system of public administration, both state and local self-government and official relations. He's also on track, to say these depoliticalizations and professionalizations in the system of state administration. There were also talks about this system of official relations. I would like to point out in particular that the new Law on Civil Servants, which was passed in 2005, has been specifically approached by this government by one of the institutions of depolitisation and professionalisation, in such a way as the old Law on Civil servants and tenants spoke if the decision was made by the head of the body, I don't know the minister, then the dissatisfied person or officer against that solution had the right to object to that same head. But you know that usually in this procedure he then concluded that the same act as the first-degree solution was passed after the complaint. Now we have a system to counter the decision of the head of the body, so I speak conditionally and the minister, the decision of the Committee on State Service means an independent body consisting of professionals and state officials who decide to sign off and cancel, cancel, resolve complaints against the head of the body and against ministers, which we didn't have as soon as possible. At the same time, we foresee in this law if the administrative inspection in the control determines illegality, a proposal or a request to the Committee on the State Service is also submitted at the request of an administrative inspection to abolish or annul a decision under the law of supervision. I think in that sense we create conditions for legal conduct in individual bodies. At the same time, there is also a classic inspection that, if a clear violation of the law is established, is arranged here. However, this law also regulates the issue of an educational, instructive supervision by an administrative inspection in order to make it possible for authorities to transfer or take over transactions in local self-government units, especially in the case of local self-government units. At this very time when a part of these works was transferred from construction around local, construction permits to local self-government units, administrative inspection was carried out in all counties, in large cities and cities in the county headquarters, before this procedure was done to determine whether these bodies to which these jobs were transferred, whether their structure, staffing, were such that they could take over these operations. In this sense, I say one condition is that this process of decentralisation could be done as successfully as possible. At the same time, we now know that as far as efficiency and urgency and international courts are concerned, they are now also suing for solving cases or administrative cases that are not being resolved within the appropriate time limit. So also in this respect, we have an obligation that, in all the procedures where these proceedings take a long time, that administrative inspection must take steps both for the Republic of Croatia and for individual citizens to exercise their right within the appropriate time limit, which was previously only in court cases. So, in this sense, we think that this is what we're creating, I say we're still rounding this legislative framework and I say in the whole system that state administrations and local self-government and that by adopting the Labour Relations Act, local officials and tenants and the new modernized General Administration Act, we're going to have a regulated system of public administration both state and local. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9575	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And we move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Administrative Inspection. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 78. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. State Secretary, Mr. Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9577	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say that we accept all the amendments and thank the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9578	Thank you very much. All amendments to the Legislative Committee have therefore been accepted. I am voting on the final draft law in accordance with the proposal of the home working body. Let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 110 votes for and 2 abstentions along with the amendments adopted. We're moving on to the next point. - Final draft minimum wage law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 71 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by legislator Emil Tomljanovic. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms Vera Babic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9580	Thank you very much. Mr. President, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. Let the shortest representative of the draft minimum wage bill. This is actually the first time in a legal proposal that I actually represent the content of a bipartite agreement of social partners, union associations and employers that has been translated into normative content, therefore, into the bill. I think it's worth pointing out at the beginning. If we compare good European practice and labour law standards, the most famous labour and legal standards or institutes that are regulated and in the acquis of the European Union, then we will see that there are also agreements between the Federation and the confederation of trade unions and employers' associations that have been translated into the normative content of the relevant directives. I wish this was the beginning of good practice in Croatia and that in the field of social policy and employment as many of these circumstances as possible, social partners’ agreements are being translated into normative content. In the Republic of Croatia, unlike most European Union countries, the minimum wage issue was not regulated by law. Croatia had the lowest wage regulation in such a way that it was governed by a collective agreement which, due to the low representative nature of the subjects of the collective contract, was extended by the decision of the Minister responsible for the work and therefore received the characteristics of a national collective contract that applies to all. But social partners have for a long time estimated that such a solution is not satisfactory. The reasons were not only found in the national environment but also in the international environment, above all, in European countries, so mainly in the Member States of the European Union. Almost all Member States, in 20 out of seven Member States, the minimum wage issue has been regulated by law, while in seven Member States the institute is governed by collective agreements. However, it is important to point out that in these countries it is usually a very high coverage to say to employees of collective agreements and a very high level of employment and trade union organisation. I would like to remind you that in 1993, the Committee of the European Parliament on Social Affairs proposed to Member States to introduce certain minimum wage mechanisms in relation to national average wage. According to the European Foundation's report on the improvement of living conditions and the main characteristics of the minimum wage institute in the European Union, it is regulated by law or collective agreement, it is adjusted periodically, therefore, or annually, two-yearly, depending on the national conditions relating to the occurrence of certain circumstances. Methodology and subjects are different, so those who agree on the institute are, as in Croatia, appropriate economic and social councils or other associations of social partners. It's a government prerogative somewhere. Subjects to the application of the minimum wage institute are also different. Either they cover all employees or by manufacturing sectors, or certain categories of employees are excluded. For example, young workers are often excluded, so trainees, trainees, beginners, some times public and civil servants. Sectoral collective bargaining is often encouraged and is regulated at that level. And mainly, EU Member States do not know the regional differences in minimum wage although international labour standards allow for such distinction. Therefore, the government and the social partners estimated that the time had come for the minimum wage institute to be regulated by law in Croatia, so that the legislation itself would determine the amount of minimum wage as a method of harmonisation, supervision of the application of the law, sanctions. In view of the fact that there are certain industrial branches in general labour intensive, these are primarily the textile, wood-processing and leather-buttering industries. For these branches, a certain slow growth in the minimum wage share in the average salary over a transitional period of four years is proposed. So, especially here, I stress that social partners, therefore, on a bipartite basis, trade unions and employers seem to be particularly responsible for considering the possibilities of these industrial branches in terms of such a complex institute as the minimum wage institute in relation to their productivity, in relation to their competitive abilities, in their position on the market, and that, otherwise, these pay growth disproportionately above the level of productivity of such industrial branches would have been the first consequence that would have occurred in relation to employment or employment reduction, probably because these entities in these branches, which have become even more difficult in difficulties. I think it is parallel to these proposed solutions at a three-party level, so that both the social partners and the government are helped through certain strategies sectorally to help these branches in order to start, as soon as possible, with the support in these branches to strengthen their position and opportunities for them to actually achieve a way of synchronising their wages as it is resolved for the remaining branches. So, by passing this law, the minimum wage will be at 39% of the average salary as of July 1st. In fact, today it means that the current 2441 kuna will actually increase to 2747 kuna, or 300 kuna per worker. The total number of employees according to the state statistics that are actually covered by this institute is about 115 thousand workers towards state statistics receiving the current minimum wage, which is around 7.6% of the total employees. Furthermore, this level of minimum salary would increase in June each year, the share of these salaries would actually increase by a percentage of the real increase in gross domestic product in the previous year by the coefficient actually obtained by multiplying the share of real growth by 100 and thus gradually ensure the growth of the minimum wage share in the average salary because the European Union's target is at least 50% to 60% of the minimum wage share in the average salary, so, that is, the long-term objective, few countries and the European Union, I mean all two that are now meeting that goal, but therefore, that is also the Lisbon strategy and objective, and Croatia joins that, gradually in relative relations with the Member States. In addition, I think we have managed to strengthen the law by saying sanctions or supervision of the application of laws and sanctions are more serious, dissuasive, but what is particularly important in this respect is that it is precisely the fact that the social partners have stepped behind this way of regulating minimum wages that they have actually agreed everything that has been translated into normative content, the guarantee seems to me that there will be fewer abuses and fewer violations of the provisions of this Law precisely their responsibility and their competence to cooperate with the Government in this area seems to be sufficient guarantees that there will be less abuse in the application of this law. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9581	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9582	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, fellow MPs. The concept of minimum wage is common in most European Union countries, so the European Parliament's Social Affairs Committee in 1993 proposed to Member States to introduce minimum wage mechanisms. Of the 15 Member States of the European Union, 13 of them have been introduced by the minimum wage system. The aim of introducing a minimum wage system was to stop the wage spread of poverty levels, as well as to curb the difference between women and men's payments. Experiences from the European Union confirm that the introduction of a minimum wage institute is one of the more effective ways to combat poverty. The European Union contrasts with the regulation of the minimum wage issue with the two groups of countries. The first group of countries to which most members of the European Union belong shall be governed by law or by a national cross-sectoral agreement. The second group of countries to which a smaller part of the European Union belongs is governed by the minimum wage by a collective agreement, meaning collective bargaining by sectors. The majority of the European Union countries shall coordinate the minimum wage once a year and at the level of the social partners. When I say social partners, it means that none of the social partners themselves determines the level of minimum wage but always by consensus, by agreement of the social partners, because it would not be a good thing for someone to impose that pay level. The Republic of Croatia, as we have heard from the State Secretary, uses the concept of minimum wage which cannot be lower than the lowest basis for calculating and paying contributions to pension and disability insurance, as established by certain regulations. The Institute of Minimum Payments, otherwise, has been contracted with a collective contract for minimum wage since '98. The application, as we know, has been extended to all employees as well as to all employers in the Republic of Croatia. The lowest wage is determined otherwise under the Mandatory Insurance Contribution Act, and this is as a multiple of the average salary for the period of January/column of the previous year with a coefficient of 0,35. The calculation of such a minimum wage has been shown so far and we even proved it was unrealistic because it did not cover the period from September to December, meaning four months and those four months when employees still have higher incomes, so that would make them an even higher average. Otherwise, the absolute amount of the minimum wage was changed and adjusted to the average salary, meaning that the average salary was increased so that the absolute amount of the minimum wage was changed. Unfortunately, however, the share of the lowest wage in the average salary has remained almost unchanged since 1998. While the Member States of the European Union record an annual growth in the share of minimum salaries in average salaries. The highest share, meaning the minimum wage in the average salary, has Ireland at 51%, and the lowest Romania with 29% low minimum wage I believe it is clear to all of us that it generates a grey economy. Why generate the gray economy? So it's because it's a practice for employers to report workers to the lowest salary and to those lucky ones they pay the difference in black. So unfortunately, we have no control over the minimum wage but no sanctions for non-payment. So in the current system today, it would be difficult to implement the concept of property censorship because it would be difficult to control the higher paid salary than reported. The fact is that, with the lowest salary applicable to all employees in the Republic of Croatia, collective agreements of branches and activities determine the level of minimum basic salary but only for 5 activities, we have an extension of completed collective border contracts to all employers operating in the area as well as for employees. So this coverage of collective agreements is not satisfactory because it includes, in fact, 40% of workers or circuses of 600,000 workers in Croatia. The minimum wage law corrects the shortages of this minimum wage institute that is now applicable in Croatia and except that the salary from 1 July of this year will be at 39% of the average salary for 2007 so it increases by 4 percentage points and takes an accounting period throughout the year, and not just 8 months of which I spoke about the lowest wage. The increase in minimum wage will improve the working-social position we have already heard of that category of people, which is somewhere around 115 thousand workers with incomes up to two and a half thousand kunas in Croatia, and normally this is about increasing from that base, meaning from the basis of the increase of the minimum wage law to increase about 300, 300 and some kuna gross. The practice of harmonising minimum wages for the percentage of the real growth of the gross social product for the previous year is introduced and will apply from 1 June of each following year so that the minimum wage will follow the final practice of the countries of the European Union and that minimum wage will finally experience that growth of the share of minimum wages in the average salary of the Republic of Croatia. What unfortunately the lowest wage did not experience but, as I have told you since 1998, that share has not changed in the average salary of the Republic of Croatia. The law then provides for this transitional period for compliance with minimum wage levels and this is introduced for industrial branches which, unfortunately, could not withstand a certain level of minimum wage. First of all, these are as you have already heard the textile, woodworking and leather-based industry which, at the time of 4 years, means early in the 5th year, should have matched their minimum wage levels with the minimum wage level to be paid in the Republic of Croatia. A transitional period for the harmonisation of minimum salaries in that activity has therefore been left. The law lays down final and supervision of the application of the provisions of the law and sanctions for the non-payment of minimum salaries of workers. If you've been following me, I've said that unfortunately for now we don't have any sanctions for not paying the lowest wage, and at last this law determines itself. And that, those penalties will be high enough if they can be high at all for those who don't pay their wages. They will range from 60,000 kuna to 500 thousand kuna for employers. It'll be normal for individuals, too. Ireland, for example, has a law other than a high fine, a certain high fine for non-payment of salaries provided for in the possibility and fines for employers who do not pay the worker minimum wage, backlogs and interest. So all in all, this law is certainly a positive contribution to workers, especially those who unfortunately receive this level of lowest salaries in Croatia today, which will receive a higher minimum wage. It will receive the security of payout and Croatia will finally gradually adjust the minimum wage level to the European Union's minimum wage level, which is around 50% minimum and 60l%, as well as some target level of national average salaries. And what is one new value in Croatia is that finally the social partners managed to reach a common agreement both at bipartite level and normally at a tripartite level related to wages. It is a new value in Croatia. I don't think it's ever done anything to make it so uniquely possible for social partners to agree on this level of pay by respecting all these facts and understanding of the difficulties and in doing business of individual industrial activities, and also normally by making it true that it will mean precisely for those workers who today receive the lowest wage of a certain wage increase. And for all this positive that I have said so far, the Croatian Democratic Community Club is proposing to the Croatian Parliament that this Final Proposal for a minimum wage law be passed today or adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9583	Thank you. We have a correction, Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9584	I'm correcting the inaccuracy of a colleague who says that the minimum wage will be fined by a high sentence by an employer and a responsible person, so I think he said up to 600 thousand kuna. However......... Ah, article 7 of a colleague writes that a legal person will be punished by a minimum penalty of 60 grand, a maximum of 100 grand... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's talk, there's talk of this law, so first of all, it's going to... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I do, I got a word to talk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] While the responsible person will be punished by penalties ranging from 7 to 10 thousand kunas, which will motivate many to pay the fine rather than pay the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9585	Thank you. Correction by Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9586	This is exactly what my colleague Zgrebec said, and it is incorrect that my colleague Kunst claimed that with this law, especially with these criminal provisions, because responsible persons who do not pay minimum wages will be punished for claiming that an incorrect colleague Kunst will receive security of pay, the worker will receive security of wages. Unfortunately, that is not true because it is also the practice so far that employers would rather pay the fine than pay. But not only those rights, but many were violated and punishments were more likely to be paid than workers' rights. The only solution is a colleague, so not this, is the only security and in this is a correction to introduce a crime of non-payment of wages where such an employer should go to prison, because it is such a social danger that it threatens not only a man, a worker, but also his entire family. But unfortunately, by ruling it for many years, they refuse to sanction it in such an only effective way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9587	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to warn you that in the light of the reports of about 20 hundred clubs, which individual debates have been reported for this item of the agenda, we are now in time to ensure that the clubs ensure the presence of the representatives because we are planning to do what can be planned in terms of replication, corrections, etc. in order for the vote on agenda points to be around 13:30. We're not gonna have a break, so we're about to be able to concentrate. It is the club of IDS representatives and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9588	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed gentlemen of the council. If I say that this law is another failure in a series of our unions, because they've allowed the government to triumph again, then I don't think I'm far from the truth. That I was right to say the very fact that Mr. Kunst was talking about that minimum wage hasn't been corrected since '98. The union movement in Croatia is in a deep crisis. That's not good. I wish it were different, that the union movement in one deep crisis is the most they themselves are aware of. The union movement was in crisis in '98. When, for example, the Union of Independent Unions did not join those great demonstrations that Kunst led at the time, that the union movement in the crisis was speaking and this information that I do not know now whether it was in 2005 or 2006 it agreed, it was better to give up this sacred place of Croatian Parliamentism and union struggle, which is this Square of St. Mark and it's hypocritical that today they're yelling at the Parliament when they made a deal with the government. The IDS was against it, and that in the crisis is also visible this year 2008 when, for example, in Zagreb's protests, 40,000 people were said to have to come somewhere by 50% by buses, airplanes from Rijeka, Dubrovnik, Istria, and finally this law is the consequence of their inconclusiveness. But what is their biggest problem, the union problem? They are unable to acquire anyone except those who work in public services, i.e. to state or city enterprises, i.e. in their membership, it is still those who work in these privatised companies where sometimes, in the union movement, those who are unfortunately protecting the material interests of those who privatised them or those companies. Clearly, it's always about individuals, not collectives. I know that for myself, for my own I didn't do anything, that I was trying to be as much on the side of the weaker was that I had to tear down the barricades in '98, whether I fought for so-called. Preferred pensions for coal miners in Tuljek, whether I can say today that Istria has the slightest unemployment, that its systems Istria has resuscitated itself, banks, shipbuilding, auto industry, kuna-free tourism. And I also claim that if you do not live better than elsewhere, you certainly do not live worse in Istria today than anywhere else in the Republic of Croatia. But what's the problem with union number one, and that's what I'm gonna stop with. Today in unions, little anyone wants, and it's not politics. That's what union leaders are to blame for either those who were there or those today. As far as this law is concerned, when a collective contract cannot be reached, it is as clearly necessary. In my opinion, it would be better to regulate this matter by collective agreement. It's just that when some people don't want to talk, they don't want to talk. So the only solution that was at this point after the minimum wage had not been corrected for ten years was for the government to pass a minimum wage law. Currently, the lowest wage is the average salary of the Republic of Croatia 35%. This law will make it 39% or the amount of 2441 kunas adjusted by a figure of 2747 kuna clearly gross or 39% average salary. I agree, everything below 50% of the average salary is low. God forbid it's at least 45%. This minimum wage should be exactly 45% of what the minimum pension is for defenders. Clearly, it should be realistic, and it should also be spoken quite openly of this speaker because these 2441 kuna should also be provided, according to the new 2747 kuna or any other kuna. It doesn't protect the government, say, a monopoly, as it protects the tobacco industry. The government didn't renovate everyone's systems like it did to the banking industry, so they privatized it. Not everyone in this country has acquired social enterprises. There are thousands and thousands of people who started from nothing, who sacrifice themselves 100% every day in the workplace, who fight for naked survival, who didn't participate in the conversion and those little craftsmen, and small craftsmen, these little entrepreneurs often can't even get to business space, let alone something else. There are a whole range of branches in Croatia where owners fight for naked survival. For example, now we're watching on TV, etc. this controversy about textiles. The same would be true in shipbuilding if the state did not de facto write off all claims to shipbuilding, so it is likely that by the end of the year it will write off another 10 billion kuna. But to go back to those owners in textiles, where no one pays anyone, where import is an enormous that I don't know can't track this competition, this savagery that comes I don't know imports from China. But on the other hand, they have to fight non-payment of state-owned companies towards them, fight the government against the ban on Sundays, fight these daily price attacks, inspections that, clearly, will not go into large systems, but go into small, etc. 115 thousand workers receive a salary of up to 2 thousand 500 kuna gross. I don't think that information is correct. I'd say, it's official data, maybe it's 50% of that 115 grand, but everything else is actually black, which Kunst was talking about, but now the question is again whether someone's taking care of that little employer who doesn't have a monopoly, who hasn't been involved in the conversion, who doesn't have any cartridges, etc. Right, the workers, mostly those who work in textiles, who do trade, shoe industry are victims, but I also dare say there's a government to keep an eye on it, but I also dare say that their employers, especially those youngsters, are not in a much better position than they are. Who's to protect them without them getting into some union under quotes, who's to protect these people? For the first time, it happened that one union stood up for employers in that branch, and in connection with this law, and now I don't know if there are any needs to read, only two sentences, textiles announce the migration of production from Croatia despite record profits now, so on, which produce leather coatings, let the company "Boxmark", I don't know about going to Serbia or Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I'm not going to quote this controversy between that union, Jane Knezevic. As far as Article 5 of this law is concerned, I think it's something that's never been seen before, and it's probably unconstitutional that this minimum wage is determined by different coefficients for various branches. God forbid you don't have to pay off these cuts, but sometimes I also think that every minister, every unionist, every unionist should get at 2, 3 months to run one company and then vote for the laws in this assembly or propose laws. Clearly, this does not reduce the need to protect the work and I personally regret that, for example, the third January government has changed the Labour Act in its own time. When I say that MPs and ministers should run a certain company, then I don't think we should run Croatian TV where it's being funded by subscription or HEP or Water or some "City Roads", but I think we should run some company that just shows up and fights on the market. On the other hand, I would also like to say that Croatia is probably a country with a labour problem today. For example, I argue in Istria unemployment is less than that in Slovenia. If that were the case, it testifies to the fact that today we have about 30,000 voters more than we had in '95. People. Today it is normal for people, let's say from Copra to come work in Buzet, not from Buzet to go to Kopar or somewhere else in Slovenia. A quality worker will certainly be able to reach the employer, that's good. But what's not good is that that kind of worker doesn't go to unions. As of next year, the share of the minimum wage in the average salary would grow every 1 June for the percentage of real GDP growth in the previous year so that, for example, if the real growth of the gross social product this year was 2%, the minimum salary in 2009 would be 41% of the average salary. But one thing is, the clear growth of gross social product, the second is the rise in the cost of living that is growing year after year, the impact of energy is no longer simply not to be controlled. Yesterday, oil in New York was sold for $129, today it is announced that 130, 131 dollars, food prices are galloping, electricity, gas is about to be collected, Croatia is over-indebted country, interest in this country will certainly rise again, with every new law flying into the sky, let's settle down a little with those penalties, let's not play, let's go to jail for those who don't pay their salaries, as our colleague said earlier, but let's go to jail and those who don't pay those employers for the supplies, and now we simply, I'm afraid that with these standards we can put out a lot of jobs. What do we do? In this country, it is clear only one solution to work, work and let people work, not in every person to recognize a criminal because there are 2 or 3 machines, because there are 1 or 2 trucks, you have to fight that one already has 4 or 5 machines, 3 or 4 trucks, and that every worker in this country can get to the truck or the machine that the next day I start some business. The tax press should be reduced, people should be encouraged to work, to have and clearly, the state should help the weakest, that is, its primary, unemployed, disabled, pensioners, those working in these low income activities such as tourism and especially should be encouraged, an understandable export industry. The government announced, if I'm not mistaken yesterday, Mr. Shucker that the untaxable part will be linked to a thousand 600 per thousand 800 kuna, that's certainly fine, and I'll surely support it. But it's not right for the full impact of that correction to be done, or for it to fall exclusively on local self-government. So, what's the solution to that plan? First of all decentralisation, regionalization, strengthen that one local autonomy. Lastly, I think what is necessary should be pursued by such a consensus. This law seems to be going that way. I regret that the unions didn't conclude those collective minimum wage contracts, that employers simply pushed them out or that they failed to impose on them, I regret that the government eventually had to break it over their knees, even if it was better than nothing. But I think the government has to do their jobs, trade unions their jobs, and if the unions let the government do their jobs, and employers ask the union and the government to do their jobs, then it's bad for everyone. This law is certainly not ideal, certainly not ideal in the end someone will need to live with 2 thousand 100 kuna, it is almost impossible. That's something, although I repeat with 2,100,00 kuna net, hardly anyone will actually be able to live, and it's a shame that since the year 98 it's been a collective contract, any law has not corrected that minimum wage. I refer to punishment every time I speak. For me, often these sentences are absurd. Let the one who doesn't pay his salary go to jail, I'll say it one more time, but let the one who goes to jail go to that little craftsman, that little employer, that little guy I don't know about, doesn't pay for the goods delivered. If we could get those principles in place, then maybe it'd be better for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9589	Thank you very much. We have a correction. First, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9590	Although Agent Cain was quite contradictory in his debate, I must say that the incorrect allegation that he said was the failure of the union is this minimum wage law, and that is the triumph of the government. So be careful there can be no failure something if unions choose salary increases, if they elect pay instruments, if high penalties for non-payment of salaries, means all that so far is gone then it can't be a failure. But no one even defended the government in 2000 from passing the Minimum Salary Act so that even then the government triumphed. So I think it's too high to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9591	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9592	Thank you very much. A colleague referred to incorrect allegations as a good step in the union and government relations, so I'll just take a few of those allegations, and there were at least 30 of them. She says her systems are being rescheduled by Istria alone. It's been repeated for the tenth time. Istria is part of Croatian counterpart Cain, she breathes with Croatia. She's lucky she wasn't attacked, and that's why she's got a better standard. But a bigger investment in Istria has never made before in the last five years. Therefore, she did not resuscitate herself in Croatia, we all resuscitate together. And remember that once! Another incorrect quote says the minimum wage should be 45%. I say you should be 100%. Which means she should be. The minimum wage shall be determined according to the possibility of an employer. Now let's raise to 45% we'll destroy 30,000 jobs because the employer won't be able to handle it. So it's a scale between opportunity and social dialogue, and I think it's well-hit, which is why your claim is incorrect. And in the end, it's incorrect, the textiles are fighting over it because state-owned companies and the government don't pay them in time. That's incorrect. The only government and state-owned companies pay in the fiscal year is the same year they bought it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9593	Thank you very much. Correction, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9594	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I'd like to correct my colleague Cain's claim that the minimum salary or the lowest one, as it is officially called, has not been corrected for 10 years. 10 years ago, a model was established in a collective contract resulting in an annual increase in the law on contributions to compulsory insurance. The truth is, what I think about that model, that's another thing. But I'd like to ask the following. We must not, as members of the government in this assembly, violate the Convention of the International Labour Organization on the Freedom of Union Organization and interfere with the internal affairs of trade unions such as. membership of workers in the union. My colleague Cain often does this, and I now remind him that today he has broken the Convention of the International Labour Organization on the Freedom of Union Organization three times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9595	Correction, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9596	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect claim that he literally said that this country, and it was in the context of textiles, no one pays anyone anything. It's a lie. If that's the way it is then... How the textiles couldn't work like that if the problems existed. [[You don't understand.]] The fact is, but the international division of work and textile problems is longer today, non-payment is not a fundamental problem and with this allegation is immediately another incorrect allegation. If he went to comment that these Assembly representatives might need to run or work in textile companies, so here I remind Mr. Assembly MP who has us who have worked and run textile companies and around and over 20 years, to him for information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9597	Thank you. Let's move on. It's time for the HSSRS HSU Club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9598	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Social and Liberal Party Club and the Croatian Pensions Party will support this Minimum Payment Act since it is the same for the weakest paid workers in Croatia to increase the gross salary level by about 300 kuna. However, we also have serious objections to this law. Since I personally know this area, labour-social legislation and remarks are also related to the regulation of the entire system as well as this concrete law. It seems to us that the level of quality of this law is not at the standard level of lawmaking in this House, i.e. the impression that everything is done in a hurry. We think the world of work deserves a better and more professional approach. In fact, there are no financial projections in this bill, no imaginatives. We can argue here about four concepts, the concept of basic pay, the concept of minimum basic pay, the concept of minimum pay and the concept of minimum pay. Is it clear to everyone here in this assembly what any of these terms mean, they're small differences but they matter. We do not have in this law that increases, or as it increases, as the minimum wage increases for the growth of gross social product. Is that a sum or a multiple? Both of them are expansive. We don't have a term, which means real growth of gross social product. Is that growth reduced by inflation or how, or what. We asked the State Statistics Office yesterday to explain these terms, the clarification we didn't get, to point us to the Ministry of Economy of the Authors of this Law. Furthermore, this law does not have a constructive relationship with the collective bargaining system. We have a situation now. At the same time, by adopting this law, God forbid it is today, at the same time it will be in force of the Minimum Payment Act and the collective contract that regulates the minimum wage. It will be because no collective contract has been cancelled, and the cancellation deadline for this type of contract, the collective contract under the Labour Act, is Article 206. So that employer who, despite the entry into force of this law, will be paying a small sum for the next three months, who will sanction him with those 10 to 100 thousand kunas or 10 thousand kunas to a legal person, or a natural person or a responsible person. That's the facts. The law can't put out of force a collective contract. Both apply directly. One as an act adopted by the legislative authority in this Croatian Parliament, and the other as an act of free will of social partners, so employers, trade unions and states. Furthermore, it is said here that the government has not triumphed. The fact is that social partners in Croatia have shown their weakness by inability to edit this area through a collective contract. This is less said than said earlier, the fact that we recognize this in the light of this law where we say that today is not a satisfactory coverage of employers and workers in branches and activities by collective agreements, which points to the conclusion that one number of employees is not covered by the regulatory minimum wage, which cannot be. The collective agreement regulation covers all workers and employers of the lowest wage category in 1998 and its extension. However, in his explanation, he says and proves this weakness of our unsettled social partners' relations. In the following explanation, 20 of the 27 Member States have regulated the minimum wage issue by law, while the minimum wage is regulated by collective agreements in those EU countries characterised by the high coverage of workers and employers by collective agreements, and a high level of trade union and employment organisation. Therefore, that these trade unions and employers' organisations in Croatia were neglected or not, stopped in development, did not develop during the independent state of Croatia. So this is it, this argument is in favour of what I say that the social partners in Croatia have shown their maturity in this law. Secondly, if the Government had already appreciated that the Minimum Payment Act should regulate this area, it would have been correct if it had taken the minimum wage bill proposed by the Croatian party of pensioners in the previous term, so more precisely on 24 July 2007, as a proposal for legislation for discussion and adoption. I think that the bill much better regulated this area and regulated not minimum wage but minimum wages, where a minimum wage coefficient can be paid for a particular professional arrangement at the level of the country as well. They say it's impossible to do. How is it impossible to do that when the Minister of Finance's command is doing just that for the maritime sector? It shall specify exactly how much it must be, or below which level it must not be, the minimum wage for certain professional equipment of maritime employees. That's the idea. The proposal thus bound the minimum wage level and bound the level of the non-taxable amount so that no unit of local self-government in these adjustments would be damaged. And already when we mention the average salary and the minimum wage of the average salary, we need to publicly say what is in Croatia. In Croatia, the average salary is calculated on the basis of those below average and on the basis of those above average. If that distribution were 50% above average, 50% below average, this would be much, much more satisfying or more acceptable. So these are some details to be pointed out, pointed out in this law. Next, we've seen one problem. In this regard, Article 4 states that the minimum wage for the period from 1 July 2008 to 31 May 2009 will be 39% of the average monthly gross earnings achieved, etc. Please, what employer will go to count on what 39% of the 6 grand 920 kuna is. We've given here an amendment that exactly states that it is 2 thousand 747 kuna, because if the Minister of Finance's orders write a specific number, then it's neat here that in this law where we treat minimum wage it also writes a specific number, not 39%. Furthermore, I have already talked about Article 3 which is unacceptable to me and I ask the Government to react to its amendments if it cannot be otherwise, to say precisely what this increase means and to say exactly what the percentage of real growth means. I mean, we can bring this in, and then we can lean on it for the next six months, which means what, but I don't think it's correct when there's a lack of law around here, not to be corrected. Still, one deception that does not exist and cannot exist in the system of collective bargaining, but it exists here. We say the minimum wage will be 2 thousand 747 kuna, but it will be for certain activities coefficient 0.94 this year. So why don't we just use one logic, civil logic, common logic, so what's the minimum wage now? Is 2,000 747 or 2,000 747 multiplied by 0.94 equal to 2,000 582? I think this is different, because the minimum wage for me is the notion under which you can't go. This is much easier to deal with with with collective agreements where exceptions are negotiated, than with laws where it can be the subject of dispute at court cases. Here, I'm going to stop and just ask that the bill promoter doesn't say that this law provides 7.6% of employees with a free and decent life. And with this new minimum wage for these 7.6%, you can't guarantee either free or decent life. They'll still be in the survival phase. Let's be correct, please. He'll continue his colleague, Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9599	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go. ... Yes, but the correction of an incorrect quote has been made before. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9600	First of all, I'm just going to take a brief look at it as a failure of the social partners' union that's an incorrect allegation. But I think it's incorrect to downplay the unions and their dialogue bipartite and especially from a fellow Hrele who was a unionist himself and who was able to suggest himself some growth-related solutions or the lowest or minimum wage. But the dilemmas to resolve. As regards a collective contract that may prescribe lower rights than this law will be passed by a colleague, Hrelja should know that a more favourable right applies to workers. On the other hand, as far as this law should regulate the question of collective agreements, there's no way. Well, collective agreement, it's a two-sided contractual relationship. Well, the law won't regulate it. And there's the possibility right now for the unions to agree perhaps a higher level of rights, a higher salary than this minimum prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9601	Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok on behalf of the HSLS Club, HSU Part Two. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9602	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Just what my predecessor Mr. Hrelja was talking about, I think we should be careful of what might sound like cynicism. We appreciate the efforts of both the government and all of us that both this law and what we're doing today raise the minimum wage level and allow people to really survive, especially given that these 7% increase is already eaten and spent on the growth of the cost of life inflation. But let us beware of the fact that in this way we will enable people to live a more free and decent life or to live a life in prosperity. So that part, I think we should all change together. And what particularly hurts me not only now as a representative of its territory, so the north of Croatia but also as Mayor of Varazdin is this discrimination that the textile union also refers to but also all other trade unions and all those who work today in so-called "the World Trade Union". labour intensive and processing industry. Ladies and gentlemen, discrimination does not begin with this law. Discrimination doesn't even begin with this government's industrial policy. Discrimination is permanent in the Republic of Croatia with industrial policies of all governments that have really allowed the industrial sectors of branches in which we will and have already invested billions and billions of kunas and that no one has ever done any excessive economic analysis, a simple cos benefit analysis of why we did it. There are also industrial branches in which we have not invested a billion kunas in all these 17 years. And now that we're talking about some positive measures of discrimination or when we're talking about lower coefficients for these branches of industry, we're going to make it easier for employers and entrepreneurs, and for the workers themselves, then it's really one discrimination with cynicism because I assure you that the workers of Vartex and then gender discrimination because most of it is about women employed in these branches of industry having the same pay as the shipyards today, most of the boys and men in the shipyards that the state invested billions and billions of kuna in textiles. Someone will say that, we will now change it, we will be forced by the principles and principles of the European Union. This same Europe, my dear, has invested 6.5 billion kuna in the textile industry over the past year. Therefore, the Croatian state could do so and still can. We're not against the adoption of a minimum wage law. We are not going to cut down the entire forest because of a few bumpy trees, a few problematic industrial branches, but we warn you that this view of the beautiful forest if we had a bit of scratch under the surface would show that there are very, very rough trees in the forest in Croatia. Only the state so far has tried to squeeze, heal, somehow help roots and trees, and some lumpy wood unfortunately failed to heal to this day, and has not even helped them yet. What should certainly be done to ensure that the measures followed by this minimum wage and law, which are mentioned here do not start from 1.1., but to start from 1.7., the state cannot be good to some industrial branches and to a generous mother and to some other industrial branches of stepmothers. We must learn to treat everyone equally in accordance with certain principles of economic policy. Some industries are likely to be a little more privileged, some others may be a little neglected, but what we are doing today is discrimination with cynicism, and that is why we also suggest that the incentives and support measures go back to 1.7, as the law will come into force, or when the law comes into force, because then we will really have positive discrimination, in fact, affect that there are no more bumps and then because of a few of these trees, we do not cut down the whole forest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9603	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9604	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. In the spirit of what Mr. Chehok has said, therefore, because of a few lumpy trees, we will not cut down the forest, and we will not prevent an effort that can indeed be seen somewhere that part of the workers who are on the minimum wage is helped, so to cut them off for that kind of moving forward. However, it seems to me that this cynicism of the country to which it is approached and in this problem is actually best painted in that people's room that they don't believe in hunger. A fellow Cain made a figure saying that it would be good for government representatives, or representatives, to try to run such industries as wooden, textile shoes and leather. That's not the point. Whoever's running it would have about the same salary he's got right now. I'd like to warn you that it's a lot different if you were fed, raised and trained by a working woman in a textile, footwear or leather industry, so you could see what a challenge means, determining the fate of such people. The fact is that this law will also introduce permanent sanctions, however, is the fact that what Mrs. Anticevic says, it is not a criminal offence, it is a violation and a repeat of the violations is worth it and to those who will work at the expense of workers who pay minimals. About 115 thousand people in Croatia are nominally in this group to receive minimum wage. However, the fact is that part of them is being blackmailed and is officially receiving minimum wage and the rest gets cash on hand. And that in reality it reduces their social, health, pension rights. But it certainly doesn't belong to the workers of these so-called so-called groups. labour intensive and low income industries such as textile, leather and wood-processing. These are generally women, they are usually workers who work on norms, workers who work on outdated technologies, they are workers and workers who are much more exposed to the deaths of poor work protection than in other industries, they are workers and workers who work shifts, and they are workers and workers in activities that the state has forgotten for almost 20 years. The fact is that the activities of textiles are shoes, leather, rubber given the conjuncture on the world market for a long time in a very invisible position. The fact is that this production has long moved to the Middle and Far East. And that the vast majority of all the products that we come from these industries that we buy in Croatia, regardless of what brand they wear, were produced in Turkey, Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, China. The fact is, therefore, that these are industrial activities that have strong competition. But that's why the question arises whether or not we were involved. Did the state give a fat hand to help those industrial branches get poor? Whether it should list how many textile factories in the Republic of Croatia ended up in tycoon hands where tycoons sucked the substance, sold the property and practically brought the companies into bankruptcy. ... but I will remind you of the workers of the Veligogorje Gorican women who have been exposed to such one risk and who today are working for this minimum wage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, has the state ever, as it has so generously accessed some other industrial branches defined its support strategy for this type of industry? Let's not forget it's the manufacturing industry, it's the manufacturing industry. How many years have we heard from top economists in Croatia that Croatia... The industrialized country and that something should be done to increase industrial production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In what? What can we produce? What have we done to restructure these industries? To requalify workers in textile, leather, footwear and rubber? What have we given them as an additional opportunity to get better at the labour market? What alternative do they have with the qualifications they have? With mostly lower and medium professional equipment. These are all mothers in many areas where these factories are located, and they are also foster parents of the family. And they don't have the opportunity for two-way work on extra, to make extra income. That's something to take care of. And that's why even when you propose laws like this in this way to make discrimination is top-notch cynicism. If we could take a step forward, introduce a steady relief for these industries. And not now to force workers and workers in these industries to bear the burden of restructuring these branches. Because this is the law that goes to their employers. Look at that map of social justice that their union just made. Let's say the unions were negotiating. These negotiations didn't go well with certain industrial branches, and their union, their biggest union, was actually looking for each other and they got each other. It's a very simple calculation. The state invests 400 million state aid annually in shipbuilding, the average salary is 7 thousand 244 kuna, and the minimum will be 2 000 747. In textiles, clothing and leather 20 million support, 20 million kuna, so 20 times less, the average salary is 3.5 thousand kuna, so less than twice, and the minimum wage will be 2 thousand 582 kuna. I don't know if we can look into the eyes of those people working on the norm, who work hard and who expect the state that promised them back in the '90s to solve the problems of restructuring their industries. Hard, hard to tell them something that will make sense and comfort them. As people increase nominally in gross around 300 kuna salaries, we need to know that in the net no more than 208 kuna will effectively help them. 208 kuna. And then we say we're going to give them a man of dignity's life, at least let's be worthy of it and not say such things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9605	Thank you. At 11.25, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9606	After this heartwarming rhetoric, I would like to warn one thing, and I see that it is repeated, and Agent Beus reiterated that it was Agent Anticevic, too, that he is not subject to the penal law of non-payment of salaries. So in any case, the criminal law, that a criminal offence is anticipating violation of the rights of workers, which includes non-payment of salaries. And it's strange that the opposition MPs just forgot that because they introduced that novel into the Penal Code while they were in power to clear it up for once. Second, so look says Commissioner Beus that employers will be paid for not paying their salaries. Whomever can be paid if 500 thousand, up to 500 thousand kuna, has to pay the fine for not paying the minimum wage imposed by this law because so far there has been no supervision or sanctions instrument, and now that is exactly what is being introduced. Well, it means it's something more favourable. And listen to this for sure that it would be better if in 2000 or 2001 a minimum wage law had been passed and that workers had already received a far greater minimum wage than to wait in 2008 and that they were now so drastically spit. In unions, which is wrong. If we need to open a public debate with the unions about their work but also about party work so that we can be... And not now the unions are calling while they're not here and putting it all on them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the easiest. Let's open up one discussion and let's tell each other what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9607	Thank you very much. All right, all right. HDSSB club Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9608	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is this proposal for a minimum wage bill with a final bill which, according to what we have on the benches here has a page and a half or 8,7 points with a final point that this law enters into force on July 1st and it would be good as Mr Chehok said that, in fact, to start applying on July 1st, in the discussions that have been carried out here, there are a few things that I would like to mention here. This is the first thing to be mentioned in the introduction of this proposal for a European Union law that Croatia did not have a minimum wage issue but the notion of minimum wage, even though laymen think about it and when those who look at us think that they do not see much difference between the lowest and minimum wage. These, uh, these lowest wages say they were arranged about March 6th, 1998. I would say it was one, and since then something hasn't changed very much although Mr. Lesar says that the Syndicate intervened several times and so on, I would say that it was one, a good, good "grace" period for employers who in fact during that period of 10 years regardless of which government was here on Mark's square they could use for their consolidation and for, to say the preparation of this law, which, for the sake of dignity, because of the dignity of workers and free lives, is now a minimum of 300 kuna and for all those who have far greater wages. And their kids go to school, they need shoes, they need to get out, and so on. Not to mention all those needs that are listed today and that require so-called. consumer basket. In an explanation of this law, it is said that for food, housing, energy and transportation, the Croatian household allocates the most funds and it says somewhere around let me round about 60%, 58.55. Here, on purpose or on purpose, I do not know, does not mention how much is the consumer basket for the four-member household in the Republic of Croatia today? Today? But it is, in the words of some here present on this side of me, regarded as some kind of triumph of the government or something. It's really top-notch, but it's also a bit of a tragic cynicism. Namely this one crawling, crawling to say increase, and we can say... social rights and minimum personal income are completely different from how some in Croatia bought to say meteoric speed, privatized companies as they quickly came into the possession of these companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here I say after a 10-year grace, we now have agreements and talks of social entities, or those that should be discussed, which are trade unions, employers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia about how much this is going to increase, and is it going to be 39%? So far there were 35% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia at 39, and they say Ireland has a minimum personal share, the minimum salary is 50%. Okay, I can round up to 40, so let's be a little bit here to say better. In the very text of this bill, they say that they will be accounted for on the basis or on the basis of average salary throughout the year. And that's for last year. It's for last year. We increase that minimum wage based on last year's accounts. And based on the growth of gross social product and I probably hope and look forward to developing the Croatian economy that wages for workers will be on the rise during and this year. But for those who are on, let me say on a minimum salary it will be calculated retrogradely by last year's account, which again is not 39% more of the current salary than quite certainly lower. Furthermore, in Article 3 of this Law, the right to minimum wage under the provisions of this Act is so declared by all workers working in the Republic of Croatia regardless of the employer's registration. I hope it's independent of the employer's place of registration. There's no exception. That is why in Article 5, we come to each other’s explanations. For the textile, textile, wood-processing and leather-wearing industry, let's say the rubber industry as Mr. Beus-Richembergh said as a labour-intense, labour-intense industry. How nice, how wonderful that sounds to work-intense industrial branches, the share of minimum wages can then be multiplied by 0.94 and 0.96 and 0.97. Working intensively is when companies from these branches were privatized in the last decade, so textiles, footwear, etc. When it was due to come into property, it was not asked what it would be, so what it would be, whether it would enter into the recession of this branch of the economy. Today when importers, when to say Middle Eastern and Far East countries with significantly cheaper labour, are simply destroying not the Croatian textile industry or some of the others from this branch that I have listed, but also the American and European. Today, we are asking questions about investment in the textile industry, and it is clear to me that here from Cain's discussions and Mr. Hrelja and the Czech Republic are asking a slightly regional approach to the industry that is in a particular area to say developed. And when we talk about it, when we think about it that way, then we see that in the region that I come from actually these very industrial branches are prevailing, which is Slavonia and Baranja. And when you look at the average salary in Slavonia and Baranja, it is certainly less than the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely because the representation of low-accumulated branches of the economy in Slavonia and Baranja is somewhat higher than in some other parts of Croatia. It is true that we all know it, we all read we're all smart that the shipbuilding has invested hundreds and hundreds of millions of kunas, not to say the euro so that this cry of textile industry is in some sense not only textile but also those that are listed here as working intensively justified. When it comes to the gray economy, working on black, etc. I don't think this law is going to change much in that sense. We are familiar with cases from my surroundings from which I come from Slavonski Brod, from our county and our constituency where the employer may not be just one, but one I certainly know pays off his employees, his workers in bons that must be spent in his department stores or his shops. And it's so permanent even though that employer or that owner, there's some information, doesn't pay a proper tax to the state, and nothing is done, no one can do anything because that's how it is, and it doesn't go differently. Because in this country, it's actually financial indiscipline in quite a bit. Financial discipline, I think, in relation to some past period, gave in a little bit, and then this non-payment, payment, delays, deadlines, etc. Indeed, they bring especially craftsmen into a difficult situation. So this bill clears that he is to greet and accept because he still increases that minimum wage, and here by 300 kuna, 300 kuna good God. But it certainly speaks of Croatia's social map, the level of poverty in Croatia, because a hundred and fifteen thousand workers receive this kind of salary. Maybe that information, maybe even to me, is a little bit of a surprise. But when it's so explicitly called then it's really to say that, a terrible indicator to our citizens how many families there are, i.e. people are receiving minimum wage from now on gross 2440, and now 2740 kuna. And then can't it really be assessed with some kind of triumph when this level of poverty is publicly said here we are also presenting when we see what kind of social map of Croatia is. And where are those who do not receive for months of personal income or who work on black, who have neither health insurance nor pension insurance, but thus sell their work in the worst possible black manner according to the “Germinal” Zolin, etc. When we talk, I say about the law itself, then here's what I'm going to do, because I'm saying something moves forward in that sense, or in terms of a minimum wage increase over this earlier period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9609	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9610	Well, MP Grubisic said at the beginning of his presentation that the greatest cynicism is the adoption of this minimum wage law. I think there are even bigger cynicisms and that the greatest cynicism is when individual representatives with a salary of 15000 kuna pay over the fate of those workers who have a salary of 2,000 kuna to like, so that they would like the Croatian poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9611	SDP club, Vice-President of House Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9612	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. And I'm a little under the impression of demagogy when we're discussing this law. Whatever we say if there is no concrete action we can call ourselves demagogy, we can call for demagogue those who were union leaders until yesterday, and today defend the ruling party that claims to be nice, that it can live well with 2000 or 2100 kuna. We can also call those who receive 15000 wages, and they argue here and fight that the minimum wage is not 2100, but let's say 2500 or maybe 4 and a half or more than that thousand kuna. However, it will not be and we are not here to advocate a renaissance, but to seek concrete and possible implementation of solutions. And that's why I'm going to speak openly at the beginning on behalf of the SDP club about what's already been going on here today, and that's whether the minimum wage law is really the best solution. It is true that the legal solution is also one of the instruments that will fix the mess that we are facing in this country is an inadmissible jobless position and a slightly inert work of the union when we talk about protecting the rights of workers, including those of the elemental ones, and that is payout of salaries. Indeed, everyone would be more pleased if this issue were resolved by collective agreements as resolved in 7 European Union countries, obviously in those countries where the coverage of workers and employers by collective agreements is higher, which means that there is an active approach to this issue, but also the organisation of trade unions and employers also greater. I will dare and say that in those countries where this issue is settled by collective agreement, the role of the state, its activity and justice in the peace of interest of capital and labour, i.e. employers and workers, is greater, more active and more quality. I am sure that in these 7 countries of the European Union where these issues are addressed by collective agreements, that the role of the state in affecting economic policy is also greater and better quality, and that these are the basic reasons why it does not swear to the law, legal solutions, but goes to collective bargaining. We also have good examples in Croatia, individual truths, but good examples where collective agreements solve things wider than the demagogue story of minimum wage that will ensure a solid and free life. Unfortunately, he won't. Let us try, as well as those who are legislators of this law, to imitate these individual examples. We have recently seen that some companies have been praised for quality attitude towards workers and quality solutions in collective agreements, so let's try to learn on these good examples, and let's not provide crumbs with laws. This law itself points to systematic weaknesses in this country, and these are that, despite all the legal solutions, workers are not protected, that the state is very inefficient, both in ensuring labour rights, so in solving a whole series of objective problems that it is obliged to solve, but we also face the fact that economic policy does not produce any results. I'll dare say, we're wondering if there's actually some kind of systematic economic policy? The amount of minimum wage as determined by this law is insufficient. It should at least aim at 50% in our terms of average salary. The solutions, or the way it is governed by the law, are rather vague. It is not known whether it tends to weigh more than 39% of how much it is guaranteed after this law enters into force, or whether it tends to cement the minimum wage on those 39%. And it's not clear to the end because I can see that the employers are protesting some of the provisions of how it's listed here, but at the same time they're protesting trade unions or unions. And all in all, it seems to me that unions and employers are left to themselves precisely because of non-existent or poor economic policy. At the same time, the state is wasteful, looking for its part of the story. However, economic policy or the lack of a good economic policy makes it difficult to place employers. And what remains to the employers rather than to their losses, their burdens, their costs shift to the only one they can, and that's the worker. Because after the employer, the worker is a second, even more unprotected category in this country. The state is the owner, the state is the master, the state is acting and the only one can behave the way she likes it. And it shouldn't be like that. The state should be a servant and should be a servant to both employers and workers. We are today discussing and we are going to pass the Minimum Payment Act, and the fact is that the unknown solutions that we hear are being prepared and are in close contact with the position of workers and employers, but also with the position of, for example, the state budget. The very reasoning of the law states that a social partnership agreement is being negotiated for a new development cycle where some new solutions are being spoken and announced in terms of income tax and contribution. At the same time, the finance minister came out on a big bell yesterday and announced some very concrete solutions. It seems to me that what it says in the light of the law is what the minister announced yesterday that he was actually in the service of propaganda, in the service of covering the shortcomings and open issues in the Minimum Salary Act. And in fact, it's all bad because the order of the law's passing, the preparation of this law is completely messed up. It was necessary to specify exactly what can be done in the correction of income taxation, the increase of the non-taxable part, which can be done in the correction of some, in the field of contribution. It was necessary to see the impact on the state budget and on all projects financed from the state budget with concrete solutions to come to the social partners, negotiate what is real, and not like this to let social partners, without concrete knowledge of what will be done, come and look for the best solutions. To reach a consensus that will be the best solution for both employers and workers and that will ensure future growth and this real growth of the gross social product. The consequences for workers, if we talk about this confused order, can be such that real growth will not be, and there will be no minimum wage growth, and with this minimum wage it will continue to be as hard to live with as the lower one they have received so far. For the employer, if we look at what the law says, it can be interpreted that increasing the percentage of the real growth of the gross social product, if it is, can lead to some unacceptable and unsustainable heights and minimum wages. Normally, in practice, it's probably not going to happen either, in practice, the minimum wage will be left out here at 39%. Employers will have problems, workers will have problems, and the state will have the least of the problems and will generally profit. There is something to be said about these solutions that provide for the exceptions of some industries, textiles, leather-based and wood-processing. I will immediately say that, in the SDP club, in relation to this solution, we have set up an amendment in the law and we ask that the difference to the full minimum wage for these activities is provided by the state budget, i.e. the state. I'm not going to hold on much longer because today it was already about how many industries are being subsidized, how much is being intervened, and then we need to intervene in these branches if we're already talking about reaching minimum wage. Workers in these branches must have the same position as others because they have been in a worse position for years than all other workers, and if the opportunity to at least in minimum pay is missed equal to other industrial branches, while at the same time not making their employers' position difficult, I don't think we're going to do a good job. I think we'll be able to talk about some kind of half-determination that won't be much help for employers, and for workers it'll still mean inequality, one big dissatisfaction. And at the same time as we're talking about these three industrial branches, then I'm going to ask the government one question. What this new-old government has done in the last five years for these industrial branches. Is it really about branches that have no perspective or are branches that are properly intervened, in the right place can become very recognizable and competitive industrial branches in the Republic of Croatia despite competition and low wages and production that is transferred east to China, and I don't know which countries are all countries where a handful of rice is concerned. And finally let me say something about something that has also been discussed today, which is supervision and control of the implementation of this law. Oversight and control in terms of payouts and regular payouts. Today, a million and 176 people are employed in Croatia or something smaller, thousands of people. Of that number, I'm going to be very modest, because there's no exact data about it, 40 thousand people don't get paid. I heard something terrible here in the assembly today. One fellow parliamentary representative said, and I'll quote, "So far there have been no instruments to monitor the payout." He certainly has the instrument of control. And here only repeats those who are obliged to monitor whether salaries are paid, whether taxes and contributions are accounted for. What about the IRS? What about the Financial Police? What about the labour inspections? They are all more or less directly or indirectly bound to supervision. But the fact is that 40,000 people don't get paid. The fact is, that's why we don't see it and it's not written in the papers, and it would say that something's going on, that someone's got a problem with employers. There are objective, but there are subjective weaknesses. There are employers who put money in their pocket and do not pay or pay even the minimum of their obligations to workers who have existing laws. And we can discuss here that these solutions to supervision and control and sanctions are the ones that will improve the position of workers. We can say on the one hand that it won't be like that, and on the other hand you can hear that it's going to be all wonderful and wonderful. However, it is up to us to face the truth. It is up to us to continue after this debate and after the adoption of this law which will not, which will bring some small steps, but certainly will not bring about those steps that we, as advocates who receive 15 thousand kuna salaries, are obliged to provide for those who have chosen us, not only those who fight for minimum wage but also those who, with average salary or even above average salary, cannot survive especially the last few months when we have witnessed inflation, when we have witnessed the savage price of being objective, which for subjective domestic reasons. I need to face people on the street unrelated to this or by accident, the other day I met a lady, working in a textile industry who said she hasn't been paid since the new year. I'm afraid that even after this law that we, whatever it is with all these weaknesses, are going to support and expect this amendment to be accepted, that even after that, we will all have to meet together people who will tell us that they haven't received a minimum wage in months.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9613	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9614	Thank you very much. So to correct all these incorrect allegations by MP Antunovic, it would take more than one school watch, but I'll only tie myself to one, because I can't get all the rest, where she said union leaders and former unions are demagogues in the defense of this law. So you know I believe it for the sake of the Croatian public, I believe that I will be understood by MP Antunovic, that even greater demagogues are those politicians who have had the opportunity to be and create power, and then they cut the rights of workers and now they pay over them in principle for their opposition rhetoric. So let's say 30-40% immediately reduced their sexes when they were in power, just those politicians who are crying at the pay phone here today over these poor workers, and then drastically, drastically, cut their rights, which I've already talked about many times.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9615	Second correction, Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9616	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said the ruling party's proposal sends a message that it can live well and well for 2.500,00 kuna. That's not true. The ruling party is sending a message that it uses all the mechanisms available to it to improve the status of people who have the lowest income. Secondly, you said a million and 150 thousand people were employed in Croatia. I assume you meant Croatia, because in Croatia over a million and a half thousand people were employed, so over a million and 500 thousand were employed, not as you said million and 150 thousand. And the third thing, as far as I'm concerned, you said you were for a collective contract, so the collective agreement would better resolve those issues. So when you signed a collective contract, you didn't honor it, and today we feel the consequences, just remember the school, the payoff for the employees of schools that you didn't honor, and today the debts to those same schools are due to more than a billion kunas only went to that purpose from the state budget. So much for respecting what you sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9617	Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9618	Thank you very much. A string of incorrect allegations. First, the government claims that you can live well out of 2,000 kunas. Our government didn't claim that. This, my colleague, was claimed by your or Racan's government, who said it was too good to live, so in 2000 it reduced 20% of the salary to civil servants and tenants. Another false allegation, there's a mess in the state. For the last five years, there's been order in the state. And third, the minimum wage, according to the government, will ensure a solid life. That's not what the government said. The government has said that the minimum wage has now reached 400 euros and that we are 10th of the 27 European Union countries. We are behind us with 288 euros minimum salary from the Czech Republic, 250 euros from Hungary, 246 Poland, etc. Those 10 had no war. Croatia had and thank God it climbed to 11th place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9619	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's counterpart Antunovic claims or quotes, says the state should be a servant to both entrepreneurs and workers, which I think is absolutely incorrect. The state, along with social partners, should help one to do well, to make others live better. And finally, let's remember, a colleague was the vice president of the government who, slightly speaking, was the boss of the workers because all the groups of workers were damaged, but I must admit that they were good servants of a few similar employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9621	Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9622	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I will correct Mrs. Zeljke Antunovic's incorrect allegations that the economic policy of the Croatian government does not produce any results. And I'm just going to deny it in one segment, the issue of unemployment. So the issue of reducing unemployment is exclusively the result, the only result of economic activity and economic growth. So in April of this year, we record 11.9% less unemployed, so somewhere around 30,000 compared to 2007, and that's exactly what this segment is, is that which is the result of economic activity and economic growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9623	And Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9624	Mr. Vice President. Among many incorrect ones, here I am going to point out about what my colleague Kovacevic noticed, which is that a respected representative said there was no result of therefore economic policy. The results of economic policy would not have been, dear counterpart Antunovic, if 20% of the money had not been added to the budget so far than last year. Also, income from profit tax is 14% higher. So I'm just asking you a question now, where do you think that came from? The total revenues of the state budget to date are 10% higher. It means that it is possible to correct the incorrect assumption that the state or government is not concerned about workers, because it is certainly the means from which the money for structural support can be provided without a problem. Also, parts of the cake will have to give up not only the state but units of local self-government, which we are prepared to do there because we know that the government is thinking about us in a way that will ensure by the proposed measures, an increase in revenues to cities of 400 million kuna, regardless of what 600 is going to lose, and we will make up for the rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9625	The HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9626	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. According to the union's calculations, a single person in Croatia is required to settle the cost of living on a monthly basis just over 2 thousand 600 kuna, which would mean that a worker who earns less than that amount cannot meet the basic needs of life. According to European Union standards, all those receiving less than 50% of the average income are at the limit of relative poverty. The lowest salary in the Republic of Croatia today is 2 thousand 441 kuna, which leads us to conclude that around 7.6% of total employees with their salary cannot meet their basic personal needs, let alone feed their families. So, the lowest wage we have in the Republic of Croatia today is 33% of the average salary in Croatia or 15% of the average salary in the European Union and should certainly be increased. In many international agreements, such as the European Social Charter of 1961, the Charter of Fundamental Social Rights of Workers of the '89 European Union, Convention of the International Labour Organisation No 26 on the establishment of minimum wage mechanisms from 1928 and 131 on the establishment of minimum wage from 1970, the term so-called so-called '70s' is defined. just wages as a fundamental social right of workers. The minimum wage should provide the worker with an adequate standard of living, adequate social security, and adequate compensation for his work, as most workers in the Republic of Croatia have just received the only source of income from their salary and thus determine their standard of living. The experience of many countries that regulated the minimum wage issue has shown that the minimum wage institute is a good instrument in the fight against poverty, but also in reducing discrimination against sex-based wages and ethnicity. The growing growth of low-paid sectors, and the emergence of wage dumping, are the reasons why many countries in the world have resorted to the regulation of minimum wage institutes, either through law or through collective agreements. In the Republic of Croatia, unlike most European Union countries, the law does not lay down a minimum wage issue, but in practice the concept of minimum wage is used. However, the collective minimum wage contract concluded in 1998, which was concluded indefinitely by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the social partners, established the minimum wage level in such a way that the minimum wage level, in gross amount, cannot be lower than the lowest basis for calculating and paying contributions to pension and disability insurance established by specific regulations. The lowest monthly basis for the calculation of the contribution was established by the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance and is equal to the average salary and coefficient of 0.35 because the previous discussions could give rise to the impression that there is actually no model as to how this minimum base counts, so it is fully defined. Under the 1998 Decision of Minister of Labour and Social Care on the extension of the collective contract on minimum wage, the application of the collective contract has been extended to all employers and employees in the Republic of Croatia, and all employers in the Republic of Croatia are obliged to comply with the minimum wage provision. In accordance with the Finance Minister's orders on the amounts of the base for the calculation of compulsory insurance contributions for the 208th year, the general minimum monthly basis for the calculation of the contribution today is 2 000 441 kuna and 25 June, which is an average of 35% of the minimum wage in average salary. Thus Croatia belongs to a group of countries with almost the lowest or minimum wage. Taking into account the fact that around 40% of workers in Croatia are subject to collective agreements, it is easy to conclude that today in Croatia there are a large number of workers who are not guaranteed this minimum wage through collective contract provisions, i.e. the minimum wage that would allow a person and his family to live a decent and normal life. The conditions of labour and material rights and thus the salaries of private sector workers are mostly regulated by the labour contract, thus being workers in a weaker negotiating position and agreeing to the minimum wage amounts while unfortunately the rest is paid to them. However, it should be pointed out that the control and enforcement mechanisms of the provisions of an extended collective contract on minimum wage levels are inadequate and therefore a large number of employers pay salaries and below the collective contract of the lowest wage. Almost all Member States of the European Union shall establish a minimum wage or through provisions of a specific law or collective agreements. In 20 of the 27 Member States of the European Union, the minimum wage issue is regulated by law while the minimum wage is regulated by collective agreements in those European Union countries characterised by the high coverage of workers by collective agreements, a high level of union organisation, as well as more generous social benefits than in other countries. The common objective set by the Member States of the European Union is the amount of minimum wage, which will be equal to 50% of the average salary, while as a long-term objective, the minimum wage of 60% of the average salary should certainly be our objective in the long term. The non-real income of workers is one of the frequent occurrences in Croatia, especially in relation to workers with a higher level of expertise. In such circumstances, the question of fairness, distribution of social benefits is raised, and this primarily refers to the payment of guaranteed pensions to persons who have made more income than working on black or payment of children's allowances to parents who are registered for minimum salaries and who are paid in cash above the established price for receiving child's allowance. This should not forget the fact that today and a certain number of employers do not pay their wages on time and it is estimated that about 6% of the workers are in that category, so those who do not get paid on time. The minimum wage laid down by law can protect workers from the risk of poverty because the worker is in a weaker negotiating position than the employer or minimum wage establishment by law increases the safety of workers on the labour market. With regard to the minimum wage amount, Croatia is the average salary and compared to the European Union State’s observation with a minimum wage share of 35% of the countries with the lowest share of the minimum wage in the average salary. By passing the Minimum Payment Act, the minimum salary from 1 July 2008 will be at 39% of the average salary for 2007 and thus the minimum salary with the current 2 000 442 kuna would increase to 2 thousand 747 kuna and about 300 kuna per worker. The club of HSS representatives will support the adoption of a proposal for a minimum wage law because this law will improve the social working position of workers who have the lowest income in the Republic of Croatia and have them according to the estimates of 115 thousand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9627	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9628	I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Petir here and now in the last sentence that this law will help to improve the situation by 7.6% of employees in the Republic of Croatia. What's wrong with that? It is incorrect because, in the light of the proposals for the adoption of laws by emergency procedure, it says that 7.6% of employees in the Republic of Croatia will be entitled to earning themselves and their families a free and decent life in accordance with the provisions of Article 55. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That's why the colleague of the law is passed, not to improve, but to ensure a decent and free life with 2,000 kunas. It's the ultimate cynicism this government is going towards the workers and that's why I'm not voting for this law. Because of that sentence that's cynical and offensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9629	An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9630	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. Unlike most of those who have so far shown themselves about accepting or not accepting this law, I will immediately say that I will not support the proposal to pass this law. I'll explain why. However, this law was discussed more intensively or less intensively in Croatia for about two years, and my court found that the bill that came before us seemed to have been written by Nostradamus. It's full of riddles that should be decrypted or foretold by the future who thought what was under the particular provision that was entered into it. It's just that there's been a confusion of concepts, so as if we don't understand what minimum wage means, guaranteed salary, minimum pay, and we're connecting the fact that we have a collective contract to the lowest salary and that we're now replacing it with the Minimum Pay Act. The minimum wage category is exclusively a category of collective agreements and collective negotiations and only minimum or guaranteed wages can be subject to legislative regulation. Everyone who claims otherwise knows little about it then. Secondly, in the light of the law, it is a devastating fact that 115 thousand workers, which is almost 8% of employees, are paid up to 2.5 thousand kuna or net. And in reason and argument, we use a little pay figures in gross and a little bit in net, and then we send the workers the wrong message. If she's worried about 2.5 thousand kunas net then there won't be any major shifts under this law. If that is gross concern, then that means that these salaries are about a thousand and 700 kuna. Under this law, if a minimum wage is accepted in the net, it will amount to about EUR 870 and no more. Why? Because following data on gross and net average earnings in Croatia, the share of net salary in gross salary is about 68% The latest data from the State Statistics Office in February this year was announced that the gross average salary in legal persons is 7 thousand 340 and net 4 thousand 993 kuna. So the net in gross participates with an eye, exactly 68%. There won't be a minimum wage increase of 300 kuna, gross yes, but the net effect will on average be 208 kuna per worker per month not 300. It further explains that one of the characteristics of the European Union's minimum wage institute is to encourage sectoral bargaining for collective agreements. Furthermore, in 20 European Union countries this has been settled by law and in 7 collective agreements in those characterised by the high coverage of employers' workers by collective agreements, and a high level of their organisation. So, according to the Government, Croatia does not belong to countries of Europe that have high coverage of collective agreements and high trade union and employment organisation. But I must now remind myself that a year and a half ago in this House I offered to ratify International Organisation Convention No. 154 on the promotion of collective bargaining, as European negotiators have been telling us for two years. And the government said that this convention is not necessary for Croatia. And she's in the position of promoting collective bargaining. And now the government admits that only 40% of the workers are covered by collective agreements. Well, that figure won't increase on its own. What concerns me in particular is the provision of a point or paragraph 3 of Article 4 which speaks of future harmonisation of the minimum wage share in the average, not the level of minimum wage. And I'm not sure if I understand that provision and I'm asking, Madam Secretary of State, whether in the future these 39% of the shares will, on average, increase for the growth of the real growth of the gross social product, for example, in February, the official data that real GDP growth is 3.7%, or 39%, will multiply by 3.7%. That's not what law says. The terms used in paragraph 3 of Article 4 shall not say that. Furthermore, Article 5 for the textile wood processing and the leather and footwear industry. Does this article apply only to industrial enterprises? Or all employers, craftsmen and craftsmen who are not industry? The word industry, craftsmanship, craftsmanship is not the same. Whether or not the numbers should be applied here, the classification of the activity. What about employers and even in industry that are registered and have two three activities? Processing and production of tyres and agricultural machinery. Whether this law applies to him or not. Because in Croatia, we have too many companies that have not only one activity but two, three, four and five. As long as this provision of Article 5 is not by the classification of activity but by the word industry, intensive industrial branches allow too many employers to interpret that this applies to them. Especially those with more activity. Furthermore, the formula of Article 4, and by your nod, I understood that in 39, it would multiply by 1.4 if GDP growth was 3.7%. In the fifth year of application, we come to a minimum wage share of 46.2% on average if we were to do so every year. Is there an upper limit? Is this one-use law or is it always valid? So using this formula in the eighth year is going to cost 50%. Whether or not the government will intervene to 50 because it does not have a maximum age of x percent. I'm asking that I understand what the ultimate goal is. It was said to be 45, some top 50, and the law says nothing about it. What is the upper limit of the minimum wage share in the average salary. If that's what you've been thinking about. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The law on compulsory insurance contributions? So far, whatever salary the employer had registered as a worker, he had to pay contributions on that basis under that law. It was 35% of the average salary. Is that article still in effect? Because this base is now lower than minimum wage. Is it possible that, the minimum wage to increase, the basis to stay lower and employers to pay contributions to a lower salary than that? Because nowhere in the explanation does it say that this provision will be made in Article 25. The law abolished. Furthermore, we have a third category and that's an untaxable part of the salary, now 1600, we heard yesterday that it's going to increase to 1800. Does this mean that Croatia remains one of the few countries that will tax minimum wage? And specifically, on the newly established minimumer of 2747 kuna, the gross state will take 142 kuna income tax. So, 142 kuna, on that gross minimumer straight back goes to the state in tax form. Therefore, the net minimum wage under this regulation will be around 1870 kuna. As for textiles now, it is a pity that Prime Minister Sanader did not explain only one fact, how it is possible that industrial activities from the Republic of Croatia's budget receive some 400, some 600, some 800 million kuna of support, donations and subsidies have the right to a full amount of minimum wage and textiles, skin, tires, shoes and wood-processing which, by the last year, did not receive anything, and last year only 20 million, to them and these employees are determined by a lower minimum wage than those that we are already helping through the state budget. I admit, I do not understand, I admit that I do not understand, does this mean that the government has given up any strategy for the survival of the textile, leather and footwear industry, or is this a message to employers in this activity you are fleeing from Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9631	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9632	I thank Mr. Vice President, so I am pleased that my colleague admitted that he did not understand it and that he did not understand it, but nevertheless, he said one incorrect allegation about the height and amounts of minimum wages, or the lowest wages, that now, according to his calculation, which is completely unclear, therefore, this gross salary proposal is 2740, which means that the net would be 1800, it's completely incorrect. Today, the lowest salary is gross 2 thousand 440 kuna and net of 2 thousand and 100. Which means that by increasing this law, the proposal for this minimum wage law increases gross to 2 000 740. Which means that the net will be somewhere around 2,000 400 depending on the cut and so on. So either you're completely incorrect or you're using computer operations, completely incorrect because you're not clear with what you've already mentioned that it's not clear to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9633	Replica Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9634	Your Honor, Vice President. When you talked about the way this minimum wage will be coordinated every year, you touched one thing that I unfortunately mean I have to determine that in this way it says next year, if we achieve growth in this year, which is scheduled for both Eurostat and the State Statistics Office at 4.3%, we will have a harmonisation so that the minimum wage will be 43%. So as it says here in this law, the minimum wage next year should be 43%, and by letter and by the number it says. Or so it's also a question asked by Mr. Lesar. Now unfortunately, at this rate in 4 years, we would like to reach Ireland which has since 1993, from the measure's programme came to 51% of the average salary in 15 years, we would now like to get there in 4 years, and I'm afraid that's one on one hand let's say the megalomanic project. Especially watching, especially looking at and referring to the next thing. You in Croatia today have management salaries that raise average salaries. You have the salaries of foreign companies that have a large financial "background" in their homelands. You've got big salaries for big companies. We heard from the CNB report that banks made a record profit last year. But what will happen with any of this harmonisation, there is no club that will not support me, I believe the minimum wage law and a minimum wage increase. But the fact is that each of these additional annual harmonisations in adding a percentage to growth pay is a blow to the weak Croatian economy anyway. And it's real. Because the fact is that on the one hand, we have foreign-owned companies that make a record profit and that directly affect the increase in gross average wages while on the other hand the weaker Croatian economy will have to, at high fuel prices, energy, with all the costs rising from day to day, with an inflation of 6.5% expected this year and probably on some announcements and 8% to isolate every year for this possible harmonisation. And I'm asking you in fact to sort of answer both me and my colleague Lesari because what it says isn't well written. Because what it says isn't well written. [[Invader: Now you will have a colleague Lesar]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9635	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9636	Thank you very much. Well, you see, it's good that there are other people in this room besides me who dare to admit publicly that they don't understand anything unlike those Einsteins who pretend to understand everything and always correct the exact allegations with incorrect claims. Indeed, you are right that Article 3 of Article 4 suffers twofold, I even think of three times the interpretation and application of mathematics and data, and I do not believe that a model will be applied that 39% of the current shares are added to the percentage of GDP growth. ... But that's not what it says here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My colleague, if you have anything to say, please pick up and don't throw me out of the bench. It's a minimum of decency. That is why I really believe that the Government should explain in its amendment that provision, but also in particular the provision of Article 5, who are those relating to this exemption, or the four-year transitional period. I repeat, in Croatia, the average net wage is 68%. Whether it's high or low, 68% of the average minimum wage is gross net. To whom it is not clear to look at the website of the State Statistics Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9637	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9638	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are talking about the final proposal for a minimum wage law, so as one proposal that is both here and mentioned in some way in terms of approximately two years of efforts in the union and employers' negotiations to determine the minimum, minimum wage height in Croatia. And if we were to observe this law in this way, then we could say that we are all in favour of something that is necessary for Croatia and that it might, therefore, have an impact on the better social status of those who receive the lowest wage. What I cannot agree with or will ever be able to do, which is essentially through this law to the Croatian Parliament propose to introduce discrimination within the category of workers and on one side depending on where they are fortunate or unhappy to work. Whether in some industries that are let me put it this way under the government's good pasture, or whether they are working in some industries that, by assessment, are obviously not in the government's own particular perspective, or how the government here and listed them as problematic, it's literally listed to the troubled branches, and then as workers, in fact, through the height of minimum wages, are condemned to be discriminated against. Secondly, when it comes to discrimination, then I will repeat what a colleague here has already said is discrimination against women workers who are in the vast majority of industries where minimum wage is predicted to be less than for other industries. So as a parliamentary representative, as president of the Committee on Gender Equality, I cannot accept it any more than we have already talked about this issue in this House. I'm taking the opportunity to remind all of us who were in the last session that in early 2007, we had a debate here about the government's interpretation of the situation in the textile and shoe industry initiated, initiated by a group of MPs, where we asked the government to report on what it was doing and what it was doing on the issue, to solve the problems facing the textile and shoe industry? We were encouraged by the fact that in 2005 and 2006 colleagues were given answers to parliamentary issues in terms of working groups, commissions being established, analyses being done, and so on and so on. Unfortunately, what we're talking about today and what's in this proposal for a minimum wage law, and that these branches of textile, leather-blowing, wood-processing industry workers to have lower minimum wage than all other workers is directly due to the government's setting up commissions, doing analysis, looking for solutions, etc. etc. And in fact, the most important thing of what we've warned about then is not really done. In 2007, we asked for this House to reach conclusions, so it was in February 2007, to draw conclusions that would oblige the government to change its policy towards the textile and footwear industry. We suggested that it go into the recovery of the textile and shoe branches, we suggested that it go from the state budget the way we showed it on the example of Belgium that managed to preserve its industry and develop it. We asked for what is very important in the negotiations with the European Union to require a transitional period for the implementation of the measures for the recovery of these industries and we asked that excessive imports of low-quality clothing and footwear be prohibited. I think when I look at it today, we weren't actually looking for the impossible, but we were right when we called the government on responsibility to show what it really was and to say what it was actually doing when it came to the textile and shoe industry. Today, we are in a position for the government to say that workers in these industries will be those who will be at risk of entrepreneurship and who will bear the cost of production, or who will be the ones who will solve the problems within that industry. I'm responsible for that only means that the government has given up that industry. I also remind you that we also warned at that time that several branches we support were vacuuming huge money, and they were doing the same business with losses, but workers received salaries and have a relatively good pay average. These branches of the industry are subsidized with 20 million kuna and below the average wage, i.e. the lowest salary in the country. Secondly, when we talk about the security of payment, i.e. that this law guarantees the security of payment of minimum salaries by predicting both infringements and there was also talk of criminal responsibility for infringements of labour rights. I'm just asking a question let someone tell me, which employer, whose employer was banned from work or which employer ended up in jail because the month, two or more did not pay the workers a salary. This would be a real indicator of whether the introduction into our criminal law whether or not it is respected, whether or not any court has passed any judgment of that kind. Because definitely, it is shown and it is true that fines will be paid, but wages will not be paid or contributions will not be paid or part of the salary will be paid, etc. etc. I link this to the problem "Dalmatinka new" which is these days women are here in Zagreb. Of course, obviously unworthy to be accepted from the highest levels, because as far as I learned at the same time, Polancec and the prime minister, Minister Polancec and the prime minister were just discussing how to solve the social picture, i.e. how to improve the social picture of Croatia, or our workers. They went back to Sinj. Women who work, who don't get paid for nine months. And now I'm asking, "What's this about?" Is it really our state Eldorado for foreign or domestic employers, so whatever they do absolutely business without any social responsibility and so neatly you can do business, not pay contributions, not pay taxes, not pay wages, and no one can put an end to you in the country. That's the problem, and if we don't talk about it here and this case, then I don't know when we're gonna talk. To say that everything is in court, and to forget the fact that anyone is even talking about the Labour Law says that all work disputes must be completed within 6 months. And when you go into a work dispute, then you wait a minimum year or a half to even schedule the first hearing. So when we talk about the minimum wage bill proposal and when we talk about the problem that there's actually discrimination here, I think we should talk about this problem too. We'll have here in a few days to discuss anti-discrimination law. Great, one roof law that prohibits any kind of discrimination. Will it then, under this law, be able to ban and sue perhaps the government or state that allows this law to go through multiple discrimination, discrimination, in view of where you work and discrimination in view of which sex is in the majority. I am responsibly saying that, unfortunately, neither this anti-discrimination law is going to help us in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9639	Thank you very much. We've got two replications. First of all, dear colleague Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9640	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to refer to that part of the exposure where colleague Sobol rightly points to this problem that we have at the same time the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, and in one of the laws that we're going to adopt, we're introducing just such discrimination, which is actually hypocrisy. And this particular article 5 actually discriminates against the workers in which they operate. It should be warned that they will not reach the minimum wage in the fourth year, as they are expected to achieve only 0.98 or 98% of such minimum wage in the fourth year. And indeed, if we want to have such industries as wood-processing, such as textiles, such as leather-buttering, which are working intensive, which employ a lot of workers, where the workplace is not expensive, and they are both export branches, and we know how much we lack export products, then the state has to intervene there. Intervention in a way that ensures the difference between funds and sharing with those employers who employ these workers a minimum wage burden. In other words, the government must finally start implementing a constitutional decision that the tax is paid by economic power and introduce the types of taxes we do not have so far. It's primarily capital gains tax. I will repeat what I have said several times here in Parliament. If this year, without paying taxes, 4 billion and 600 million kuna dividends will be paid, if we had only a minimum tax of 15%, and that's some average rate that our citizens pay on income tax, then we would be picking up more than 380 million kuna here, which would certainly be enough to subsidize their wages in these activities in one year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9641	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9642	Thank you. Madam representative, I thank you for your replica and I will only use it to strengthen it in some way. So, on the one hand, this discriminatory provision and the other, let me say one more time if it wasn't clear enough. For me, it's actually a transfer of responsibility from the government, in this case to workers in the industry who are in an extremely difficult situation and because the government didn't do what it needed in time. It was not in time that the negotiations, relating to the European Union, started, that we were given a certain deadline, if other countries that were candidates could do it, I don't know why the government didn't do it. It's the only thing that tells me is that everything that the former minister used to say in the last term, his mouth was full of textiles industry as our strategically important industrial branches, it wasn't really true and it wasn't true, and it was only used to cloud the eyes of all of us, and most of those workers in that industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9643	Thank you very much. We have a second line, dear colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9644	Fellow Sobol, you have well remembered the debate in the last term, now about a year has passed in response to the Government, and in relation to the state of textiles, skin, tires and shoes, it has been said that at the end of the adoption of the development and investment strategy in that industrial branch and that these are the preconditions for that part of the economy to receive support. However, here in reason, it says, I quote, "The design of the leather and shoe industry strategy will be intensified, so it will only now start to work intensively, and after its adoption it will provide the means to start using textile, wood-processing and leather-buttering industries as soon as possible." However, the government thinks that we do not remember that there is a law in support qualified for state support linked to the development of the region, while 70% of employees in leather, rubber and footwear textiles are in Northwestern Croatia. What is the coefficient of the right to support in that part of Croatia? Then we will come to know and say, you hear the Government has a strategy to develop textiles, there is money, good will, but because of the adopted European rules, we textiles in Northwestern Croatia cannot approve support is so. It's the fate of the strategy because if they were going to work intensively, if they had worked intensively then, they'd probably have already been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9645	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9646	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, yes, we discussed it here together, and it is true, you have actually well seen that it was then spoken about making, I have even found out somewhere that the government has even come up with a strategy somewhere before the elections, and now here it says that it will intensify the work on making that strategy, but I will take the opportunity to read the then explained also about the textile industry, or one or two sentences that came signed by Minister Vukelic, then. He said, therefore, he said during the course of the development of the strategy and the development of the textile clothing industry that will provide a full analysis of the existing situation, and a proposal for measures to change the structure and increase the competitiveness of the Croatian textile industry. And then one sentence. For the competitiveness of our textile industry, it is also extremely important to include Croatia in the pan-European diagonal cumulation of origin. Well, whatever that means, and whatever that means to the workers of the textile industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9647	Thank you very much. Next, a colleague, Nevenka Majdenic, applied for an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9648	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is known that the development of the entrepreneurship economy is one of the top priorities of this government. improving the business climate is important to develop and increase the competitiveness of Croatian society, and ultimately the result should be an increase in the profits of entrepreneurs, an increase in employment, but also the financial security of these employees. Employees must get paid in time for their work, and that is why this minimum wage law is necessary. As we could read in the context of the draft law, Croatia does not have a regulated minimum wage level as well as in 7 European Union countries. In these 7 countries of the European Union, minimum wage has been established by collective agreement, which, of course, some can say, and in Croatia, the collective agreement on the minimum wage is in force. The contract, of course, also provides for a minimum gross salary that cannot be lower than the minimum basis for the calculation of compulsory contributions, and is determined by multiplying the average salary by a coefficient of 0,35. However, with us it is also characteristic that it is not satisfactory to cover employers and workers by collective agreement, and also some employers, although some employers play, avoid the application of a collective contract because it has no legal power, and we must admit that we still have business consciousness and the code of business must develop, especially under the fulfilment of the obligations under the signed contracts. In my view, these are some reasons to pass the Minimum Payment Act, so as to ensure that workers' rights are protected, especially those with the lowest incomes and to ensure their better social status. In this way, we will achieve effective action to reduce pay gaps between men and women, to reduce the socially endangered, or through a minimum wage level. The countries of the European Union, I think it is also interesting to see, can therefore be divided into 3 groups according to the level of minimum wages. The first group includes countries guaranteeing a minimum wage of less than 300 euros and are mainly new members of the European Union. Bulgaria has 92 euros, Romania 114, Latvia 172, Lithuania 174, but Poland 246, Hungary 258 and the Czech Republic 288. The second group, with a minimum wage of 400 to 700 euros, includes Portugal with 470 and eventually Spain with 666 euros and, of course, there are in the European Union and those with a really large minimumer that, therefore, exceeds 1200 euros. It's France and Luxembourg. However, the countries of the European Union, except for the minimum wage level, also differ by the share of workers receiving that minimum amount. So Spain has the smallest stake below 1%, Malta 1.5%, Slovakia 1.7, and most France 17% and Bulgaria 16%. On the other hand, nothing less is an indication of the comparison of the purchasing power of the population, or what can be purchased in a country for that minimumer. So, for example. Although Bulgaria has the lowest minimum wage in the European Union, it is not at the start of purchasing power. Below is Romania, Slovakia and Estonia, and the largest purchasing power is owned by residents of Luxembourg, Great Britain and the Netherlands, which is understandable. There I would say in that crowd of data, although we are not yet a member of the European Union, is Croatia. Here at the minimum wage proposed by this law, therefore with 2,747,00 kuna or 380 euros would be at the threshold of the second group, but almost 100 euros more than the best-ranked EU country in the first group. According to the share of employees who would receive minimum wage in total employment, Croatia would be somewhere in the middle of the European ranking list table. By presenting benchmarks with the countries of the European Union applying the Minimum Payments Act, I wanted to confirm to the facts and show where Croatia would be found by adopting the proposed Minimum Payment Act. In addition, the law ensures and establishes a system of control and supervision by inspection of the work of the financial police and the tax administration, as well as high sanctions for non-compliance and non-compliance with legal provisions. In this way, work on black will be prevented and fairer distribution of social benefits towards real and unreported incomes and pay gaps towards sexual and other characteristics will be removed and a fairer balance in private and public sector wages will be introduced. This will certainly prevent tax ejaculation, thus avoiding tax payments and better and more comprehensive collection of income from compulsory contributions and taxes, from creating conditions for improving health care and pension insurance and potentially reducing tax rates or increasing tax incentives. In the end, here I propose that this law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9649	Thank you very much. We have three applications for replication. First of all, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9650	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Majdenić, all the statistics you have presented are accurate, i.e. those ratios in some countries are higher in some lower ones. The fact is that Croatia will have that minimum wage guaranteed somewhere at 300 euros net, so 2,100,00 kuna will be paid when you depend on where you live, depending on the tax, etc. But it would be interesting to put Croatia in comparison with how Croatian citizens can live off that minimum wage. Here you have given European examples, I tell you that these countries, let's say Bulgaria has lower prices than they are in Croatia. And I'm telling you one more thing, that for 6.400,00 kuna as much as a union basket for a four-member family, it's not even possible to live with three minimum wages. So in such a family of these 155,000 people there are many such families where two salaries are not enough for two thirds of what they need every month. So the government has to make some other concrete moves, not just compare the statistics as it is out there, as it is here. And I'm telling you that our citizens with such a minimum wage cannot live with dignity from their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9651	Thank you very much. First of all, the reply to the replica, please welcome your distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9652	Well, a respected colleague is the fact that so far we've had, so instead of the Minimum Payment Act, we have guaranteed the lowest wage. I would be happy if my SDP colleagues had previously passed the Minimum Payment Act as much as you say it is now low, because that would allow employees employed by companies to at least receive the minimum wage in time and at least in time. Therefore, this government is keeping an eye on the minimum wage law, so this salary will allow them to receive it as important as possible, to receive it in time for employees. So I think that we should welcome this government decision and say that at least before that minimum wage law was passed it would be much better for our citizens who you care so much about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9653	Thank you. Next comes the replica of dear colleague Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9654	Thank you. And I agree that it's a good thing we're passing a minimum wage law. But when you tell your colleagues what you didn't do then, what you didn't bring and suggest, so we could have brought it by 2000, we could have brought it by 2003, and we could have brought it from 2004 to 2007. However, I too will look back at the part where you point out that it is now something above average compared to some other countries, the established minimum wage level. However, we do not consider what purchasing power is for such pay and otherwise for receipts in Croatia. For several months now, we have a decline in average wages, a real decline, and in the 3rd month it was only 4,824,00 kuna and the salary below that amount received 60% of employees in Croatia, which is indeed a worrying data. If we see that the unions have calculated the basket that only a few people with one salary can cover, so from 6.206.00 kuna, I'll tell you when we're playing with statistics so much that only 13.7% of people received the salary between 5 and 6 thousand kuna, which is a range of 1.200,00 to 200,00 kuna less than they need for the life of a four-member family. You know what else is worrying when we talk about statistics. 115.3 billion kuna are our citizens in charge, over 92,000 kuna is the average household in Croatia. Actually, what's this about? About 43% of all loans taken by citizens are taken to survive. So it's for those other credit needs and the only question is, how long can such borrowing go? There's a limit and a threshold when it won't be possible to take it anymore and then there's gonna be a huge pay pressure that none of us would really want to get rid of wages on the streets.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9655	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9656	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do now, on this responsibility that's constantly being spoken of in Croatia, the responsibility of the citizens. I come from, I work in banking, and I know exactly how people react, how they charge. I am personally pleased that we have this kind of financial stability of our financial sector and banking and in general, so that citizens can be in debt. There is also a measure, banks know exactly what measures citizens can be in debt to. But what's interesting is we need to be in the interest that financial security and stability in this country is what it is, so that banks are lending to me, I would say in some ways the least of the risks and that people, that citizens can be in debt. Let's say one example. I know a lady who's in charge, she bought apartments at sea. She'll pay them off, but she says I'll move into entrepreneurship. And I ask you, should we forbid this person to be in charge? Everyone is therefore individually responsible for the task. If you want, if you have, I agree that it's not good to invest, that I've had a chance to see someone here buy what's really in my judgment, but it's not mine to judge, something that's one, some luxury. But what's important, apartments, houses, especially this at sea that we worry about all the time, and we say it's important to keep it within Croatia, so that our people build, buy. And that is why I support and let, if that is the purpose of our people to buy it, let them be in charge of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9657	Thank you very much. Replica, MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9658	You're telling your colleagues that this law will reduce the tax ejaculation. However, is that so if a few years ago, which we consider to be regrets today, and also serious concerns about the role of religiousists, and above all there are workers and states. Therefore, if the safeguard mechanism has been abolished that the owner who has led to bankruptcy has also remained in debt to both the state and the worker, so the worker after a painful trial, after having received a decision to be charged by his debtor i.e. these companies, you made it easy for him to, by playing that claim and the workers to say the state, according to that HItro project.HR registers a new company. Of course you should go on hand and employers to register your company as soon as possible. But that's the least of them ever been a problem, the registration itself. In this way, I think if you don't have this one commitment to go back as much as possible, to install this protection mechanism, that it's impossible to remain a worker and a state-owned person, that such an employer can further spread such a negative business and a negative business morality. This should be put to the end, especially if there is a serious need for a worker to charge, even with the basis of such a bill. But let's also not be distracted from the idea that unfortunately, a growing number of people are again, workers who work and don't get any pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9659	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9660	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I agree that business morality should be developed, here in Croatia should. There are employers who are really the right example, and every honor and here I would be happy to invite the media to point out these employers. The other day we had a chance to see a very high-quality show by Mr. Milic, who was presented by a company from Strizivojna, where there is an entrepreneurial spirit, where workers are satisfied, the Maltas not the whole family works in the company. So I agree that we here in the Parliament also need to direct and develop that simply these employers pay and that these workers get their salary. It's really important and important. What I also think is, let's say some years there during your term of office, that it was not necessary to end the Financial Police. Why? I was told by a colleague who went to Slavonia there and worked at sea, the Financial Police said at the time of the tourist season. And then you wonder why you have a black market. Please, nice. Sure, and there are other things. So, at that time, during your term, you shouldn't have done it, because the services were so well organized and during the season we were prepared, we had a schedule and they said the Financial Police were abolished. So what do you expect? And now one new system needs to be redeveloped. Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9661	Thank you very much. It is time for the debate, dear colleague Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9662	I will say at the beginning that I think that if this law will help one worker to secure such conditions, even though it is really difficult to say that for 2 thousand kunas can be either 2,000 and 200 how much that minimum wage will be, that it can be lived politely. I don't think so. Let everyone in this room try it so they can see what it's like to survive alone with that money, let alone if you have children. But here's if anything is going to solve this law, then it's something that can be supported. However, with full right, we can all suspect that this law will be implemented here. First, because it's hard to believe, for example. This is the second law in the last month that comes from the government, which discriminates against one group of citizens, in this case workers of textiles, leather and footwear. It's hard to trust the government that she's willing to act in principle and prevent discrimination on any basis when she's, for example, a little bit. in the Government, a minimum wage law was passed where workers working in the textile industry were discriminated against, and only two minutes after that, the Government passed the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Now, this one indiscipline, the inconsistency of the Croatian government certainly sends a very bad message to Croatian citizens and Croatian workers. The fact is also that most of our laws are not implemented. It's not fun. She remains a dead letter on paper. Many protection mechanisms from the Labour Act to many other laws are mechanisms that are not implemented in practice. Some things are strictly forbidden when it comes to workers, but workers are in deleted space. From pregnant women who get fired, they should not get to many other things that happen to our workers because they are completely unprotected so that it is doubtful whether this law will be respected. The fact that laws are not respected shows you, for example. and the State Inspectorate's information. In 2006, therefore, 6 thousand 150 reports of the State Inspectorate entered the processing process, of which 3 thousand 111 went into obsolescence. So, half, 50%, went out of date. Eat the cat. Nothing to anyone. What's worse is that none of them have been made, so none of the misdemeanours of illegal property benefits. Where is the efficiency of the system, who tomorrow guarantees that this minimum wage law will be implemented and that the state will have an effective mechanism for all those employers who will not pay minimum wage? Nowhere. So far practice shows no mechanism. In 2007, the situation was even worse. Violent courts have considered 5 thousand 700 cases of violations of labour rights, of which 3 thousand 603 have gone out of date. An even bigger percentage. So until a system is established that will ensure that laws are implemented in this country, we can pass these laws but they can again only remain written in "The People's Newspaper" and nothing more than that. As far as the textile industry is concerned, I would like to say that this provision under which, therefore, the country's decision on minimum wage, wood processing and the leather industry does not apply to the minimum wage, so they are people of other categories when it comes to minimum wage, but they are also other people of other categories because unfortunately they have 50% lower wages compared to other industrial branches and are therefore working in very difficult conditions with so many violations of law and now further states say that they have to be discriminated against by minimum wage. But obviously this problem will be resolved very quickly because in this country, the question is how many more people we're going to have in a year or two to work in the textile industry. Something here was said by Sobol colleague on the promises of former Minister Vukelic, who spoke here about a strategy for the textile industry about how the state will help. Unfortunately, all this together was just a lie, a lie, everything was just seeming to me in the function of getting choices. I will, for example, remind you of everything Minister Vukelic said about the cotton industry in Long Reza where currently 350 people are still somehow surviving in that cotton industry, but according to what is seen by the inactivity of the government of 1.7 will all 350 at the Employment Office. We sent a letter to the Ministry of Finance, asked if he'd write off his debts to the cotton man, said he wouldn't, but he'll never be charged. So, it's the government's system policy to destroy the cotton industry in Long Resa, obviously, that someone gets good space in the centre of Duga Resa and that 350 workers who will never get a job again, never again because it's a specific workforce, female labour force and there is no and entrepreneurial zone in the Long Resa that will hire 350 workers. She's just gone. Therefore, they are people who will remain permanently at the Employment Service. So six times the cotton was sold without success, every time there's an ever-lower price. We'll get to the point where we'll probably sell it for one kuna. Five years in bankruptcy and top creditors are the Ministry of Finance and the carlovacka bank. Just before I said, the Ministry of Finance doesn't come to the senses, so we have written evidence that he won't write off any debts, no deals, no conversations. So, the cotton industry is left to mercy and mercy, it dies like this for the sixth year and a half, and it will definitely die despite all the announcements of Minister Vukelic that it will find a solution for cotton, that it will be saved cotton, that workers will therefore remain in jobs. As things stand now from that cotton rescue, there's nothing. It is another one and last district in Croatia which obviously does not need us even though the minister here said that the textile industry is one of our strategic economic branches. Our daily life shows us that this is simply not so and while the elections were, while we were in the election campaign telling the minister he had promises, he had solutions after the election no one in this government even mentions the cotton industry in Long Reza as well as any other textile industries that are in big trouble. So, in the end, I'm just going to conclude once again that every law says that at least some move will make when it comes to protecting workers and their existence is welcome and will get my support and support from the SDP club but it will take a lot more than lawmaking, it will need to build mechanisms and we simply don't do anything about it. All those who should work on law enforcement do not do their job and simply workers remain completely unprotected, so the question is whether this law will be implemented and whether we will ensure minimum earnings for workers who do their job fairly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9663	Thank you very much. We have one application for replication. Dear fellow Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9664	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Opačić well pointed out two delusions that are present today in this debate. The first and dangerous delusion is that we have heard that the rights of workers entered into a collective contract have less value than the rights of workers under the law, which is a very dangerous message to be sent because it means that they want to say that they collective contract and the right to minimum wage from the collective contract '98. It was not respected because the rights of collective contract are less valid than under the law. And another delusion, that this law guarantees a regular payment of minimum wages. This law does not guarantee workers a regular payment of minimum wages but only does two things. It determines its height and potential sanctions if someone doesn't do so and demand that minimum wage if someone doesn't get it on the side of the worker or possibly the union on a fateful path, and certainly no different. So this law, which is important for people to understand, does not guarantee any worker in Croatia that they will receive at least the salary prescribed in the law on a regular basis. Under the right of achievement, on the way and mechanism how a worker can get to that minimum wage there is no difference whether it is entered into by law or collective minimum wage agreement or any other collective contract. People look at us, listen, the media communicate, and every false message that in this sense would go to the Croatian public simply isn't good because it means collective agreements shouldn't be. So if collective bargain rights are worth less than the law, then let's regulate everything by law. And that's actually the worst thing that can happen, to try, as it says from this explanation, that the government is considering the possibility with the unions and obviously on their proposal to re-complete the general collective agreement, which I think would be a major step backwards in terms of sectoral collective bargaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9665	Thank you, fellow Lesar. Answer to the replica of my colleague Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9666	Comrade Lesar, you have in some way further confirmed what I said in my debate, which is that unfortunately what is written in the laws of practice shows that it is not being implemented, that it has not been brought into practice. And one more time, so it's a fact. This law sets some criteria but unfortunately we do not have mechanisms to ensure that workers get this minimum wage. . /. It will continue to happen that irresponsible employers who take advantage of workers, who earn, therefore, a certain profit on theirs, so to speak folkly, on their skin that they will remain intact, intact, because so far the practice, I have brought here indicators of the state inspectorate, official indicators, half of all applications go out of date. The other part, unfortunately, is pronounced at least possible penalties of financial punishment, so not the biggest, but the least, and I'm asking you who in this country will respect the law, no one when there's no sanctions for non-compliance with the law. But on the other hand, when the worker remains, also without his rights, he waits 10 years for the Croatian judiciary to give him an opinion on whether his rights have been denied or not. And in that period, let him live off the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9667	Thank you, fellow Opacic. Following is an individual debate of distinguished counterparts, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9668	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a minimum wage law with the Final Bill, with this observation, is also discriminatory in relation to workers and, above all, workers, because those who are most often employed in the textile industry are to be accepted. However, this proposal for a minimum wage law is also just a declaration. Why? Because there's no effective way for the worker who worked to get his salary. We are witnessing that people are working, unfortunately this trend is on the rise again, although it has been stopped since 2000, it is possible to work again in Croatia and not get paid. Why is that happening? Because it's possible it's happening. So here today, there's supposed to be a debate here about the brothers of Ladina who doesn't pay off the workers and doesn't come to his senses to pay for them. And nothing, the government says, would want to interfere in the private sector. It's not a private sector, when a worker doesn't get paid and he's working. It's a social problem, it's our common problem. He breaks the Constitution to the last law. It's not his private sphere. 'Cause that same worker, if he took one of those threads with the Ladini brothers, he'd fit. Then it wouldn't be a private matter for Mr. Ladini and the workers but the whole mechanism would collapse on that worker. So we can ask the question of how effective and powerful this country is when it is to be brought down on a small man, on an individual, and it is powerless when it comes to the brothers of Ladina and many others. But we see that the system isn't working. The norms set don't work. But why do we here keep refusing to sanction such behavior and raise it to the rank of such a social danger that deserves a place in our criminal legislation? In our criminal legislation, it is forbidden to clone a man, therefore, something that cannot be done in Croatia. But don't pay the worker's salary we say it's a private matter of employers and workers. Very interesting. And then that worker who didn't get paid and his family, he becomes a social case. Well, we no longer have the difference between a social case and the one that works because it's our position and our evaluation, the place that works in our society. It's an honor to have capital, but it's dead machines, dead shares and paper that creates a new value. So let's protect that work. That's how we protect ourselves. So what is it today in Croatia to cross national interest rather than protect work? Whether it will protect us from the European Union. Who is Angela Merkel protecting in the European Union? And a German worker, a German employer. So we will not wait for the European Union to protect a Croatian worker, it has many objections to our work and our legislation, but has never talked about a Croatian worker. Well, she doesn't care about that. They find it interesting to open up the capital market for their products to come here. How we protect our employee, that's our concern, that's our responsibility. And as long as it is possible for the worker to work in Croatia and not get paid and all those supplements and overtime and all the other rights so far, this will be just a declaration and a declaration. I repeat, failure to pay the worker should be so and expect such a social condemnation because it is the greatest, greatest sin that cries out almost in the sky. It impoverishes a man, it degrades him. In three, four times, the SDP club proposed the law that, to be sanctioned as a criminal act of non-payment of salaries to a worker, we were rejected. There will be an observation why you didn't do it when you were in power, and we did it! But it was abolished after that. The protection mechanism was also abolished that the one who cheated on the worker because he had not paid for it, who had been litigating for years what his colleague Opačić was talking about in front of the court, so when he came with his task to collect from the employer, and the employer had a nice key in the lock and no answer. So the Parlamate owners didn't answer, they were responsible for the fake balance sheet, even though they were the owners, they shut down their company. They responded precisely because they did not pay off their believers. And who is the believer of those who liquidate their companies and then by the model HItro.HR reregister their company. So we have to do the same thing, these are the two most powerful mechanisms where we can act immediately if we have a serious will to protect the worker, to protect the work, to give him a new evaluation. So, the payoff pays the worker as a criminal offence and bans the formation of new companies of those who remained in debt to the workers. And that would be a strong message today that the debate would not make the workers of the Dalmatian woman, but also many others that we don't know about are just a statistical number of how many worked and didn't get paid. So, if Ladini's brothers were threatened by a fairy tale, he'd better find the money to pay off the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9669	Thank you. We have a replica of Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9670	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues, by agreeing with your debate, I would just like to further strengthen and replicate you, you said at one point that here today, when discussing the Minimum Salary Act, you should talk about the brothers of Ladina. Don't talk about the Ladina brothers, at this point I don't care what they're called, whether they're Ladini, whether they're called Marco, Janko, Franco or not. I think that here today we should ask whether any of the competent institutions, any of the government ever, according to these foreign investors who come here, have raised a question of social responsibility. How many of them, how many even bring in new knowledge and technology? As far as I know, especially when it comes to this industry, textile, footwear, leather, and so forth, it's essentially about finishing. So on the one hand, no one asks that question, no one opens that question. And on the other hand, I agree to be allowed in every way I will, I will dare say the exploitation of workers especially when we talk about the textile industry, the leather industry and the footwear industry. Let me start by talking about the standards they're set up, the shift work and the way they lose their health and physical and mental. And also about how much it's allowed to be done in certain companies, I call it what it's called, strategically planned mobing. "Dalmatinka new" is an example of this strategic mobbing so long as anyone endures. These workers are still supporting it. I'm just wondering how long.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9671	Thank you. Answer by Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9672	I agree, Mrs. Sobol, that these corporations, that owners should take on social responsibility. But they themselves won't take it unless they're forced to, and that's the role of the state. The state cannot watch and participate in the drama of Croatian workers, and especially Croatian workers. And I agree with fellow Sobol that they, these workers and also those who are employed in many trade chains, are simply slaves of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9673	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Biserka Vranic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9674	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. You can see that the problem of the lowest or minimum wage is something that bothers us all together, which is the fact that at least we talk about a minimum wage law and most of all about certain rights, the work of the union, the work of employers and the impact of the state on this problem. Since 1990, we've always had some reasons for and against, and we've been waiting for things to change, to get rid of something, to get something on their own, so we can finally start thinking like real Europeans. We had a growth come on during that period, normally we couldn't do much, but in 1998 we brought so-called. The notion of the lowest salary that's been left for 10 years. Although even when this minimum wage was made, that is, the decision on minimum wage was said to be a temporary situation and that when certain conditions are put in place again, it will change for the better. Unfortunately, for this minimum wage bill, too, it would be literally to say solid at the time when it would actually respect the fact that the minimum wage is something that is multiplied by coefficients and is determined by complexity. Also on salary supplements, on different grounds. It means internships, working conditions, night jobs, stuff like that. But in practice, it's actually happening that the pension insurance system and the state are somehow protecting themselves because underneath that base let's take the base of 2 thousand 747 kunas won't be able to apply to pension insurance workers. In fact, the point is that the worker is not going to get any extras on this, but in the end, since it's going to be gross, and given the fact that it's gross, it's far less net than what we're talking about. And you, for sure, that 7.6% of those who allegedly don't, receive less pay than this base that number is far higher and I think that this problem and such a way of addressing will hardly be eradicated in this country. Most employers especially if the brand is private, then some kind of construction, agricultural, textile, leather and some other industry literally understands it in a way that this is enough and that if it meets this condition as it is, it has fulfilled and done everything it has to do by law. We very often refer to the Constitution and quote Articles 55 and 56. However, we ourselves in this House are not able to provide a safe and dignified man, the life of every man in this country. We are, as Parliament's representatives, responsible for the state of human beings, as well as trade union rights and labour rights, and all those who contribute in any way, contribute to the development of this country, and I think we should really make every effort to make the Croatian worker and employer feel safe and to know exactly who has the obligations and rights. This is how we get that a large part of people who are not employed by state, public or similar institutions who are working in the private sector will actually be less valuable, a worker who will wait for a possible employer or someone to have mercy on paying him something and as far as inspection is concerned we've already talked about it. If you call them and we have good experience and we trade unions in the Parliament, when you call them, they don't have a car, so there's not enough of them, so they're not computerized. In the end, they use mostly the phone system, so employers as little notice that it corrects something, but criminal provisions are in practice and do not apply in that particular company. This is done both in overtime and in salary default and in the absence of a work book for workers who sort of finish the job and it will stay that way because we did not actually create any mechanisms to solve it as soon as possible. I am particularly troubled by the fact that, despite the fact that we are still referring to the Constitution and the state and this Parliament will have the guts to say that workers in the textile, woodworking and leather-based and leather-wearing industries can no longer have any more. So they have either below this legal minimum and despite our violation of Article 55. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I have to say that from the county where I come from, it's Karlovac, I don't remember which company in the leather industry has survived at all and has a chance to survive, and although there's a large part of the workers who don't pay at all, they don't contribute that we can expect to revitalize, rebuild or save those companies that we're talking about today. So I'm not talking about any strategy. No strategy. In fact, the state strategy is that it is waiting for it to completely fail and then there will be no need to draw up a strategy or to pay any other documents because if that was the intention then in these 18 years, it could in any case at least try to do so. What is very interesting to me, which I think we are behind on the European Union, and that is to settle the minimum wage issues by professional means. Namely, if you are running for any European Union project, you must present the costs of working on a system and the European Union has never shown that it is interested in our minimum or some of the lowest or basic salaries. The European Union is asking for each technical arrangement to specify the exact amount of hours of work of this professional training – waiter, worker in the municipal enterprise, crane worker or elsewhere, and we have a real problem with how Europe can explain that we do not have it, because we have a system, for example, the lowest wage so far, and from now on, minimum salary. I think that in this respect we must really do everything possible to do this as soon as possible, because the Croatian legislation, first of all, and the rest, will have to be adapted to the fact that workers will no longer have to work for maybe 8 hours. Maybe it'll work for 10 hours, or it'll work for 5 hours, and for that, it'll have to be as secure and accurate a clock as I can make during that period. I would also point out a situation that is very bad, which is no agreement or very bad deal between the unions, and that there is a lot of problems being said by a large number of union centres, and also communication with the Employers' Association is such that it shows that there is no will or desire to regulate it more concretely and neatly in this country. In fact, we always refer to countries that have high coverage of workers and employers by collective agreement, and we don't do much in this field, and in fact to the state, part of it fits. “Govern so rule” is already the maximum many have used. Therefore, in order for something to be done useful, at least two sides are needed for both the fight and the agreement. We, as Parliamentarians, would also have to appeal to both trade unions and employers that this country will go forward at the time when they reach a certain consensus and agreement because they are the most responsible for the state of social and human rights in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9675	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I announced this morning that it would be possible to vote on the debated points and the final points of the agenda around 13:30. However, there are still 13 reported here. That means one two, two and a half hours of discussion. In that case, there should be a break, because you can't expect someone to sit down until four o'clock without a break. I don't know what to do. Either we postpone this debate for Tuesday or we end the debate. Then we expect the Parliament to finish around five o'clock. So, I suggest we go with the vote on the points that we're done with. Why do I say that? Because it's the 30th last day of this session and there's gonna be a lot of these agenda points, and we have, so to say, part of Friday's session on the day of the 30th, it's Parliament's day and the Assembly's memorial, so that we don't get enough of it, and we don't get the whole thing complicated on Friday, I suggest that at least today what we've discussed is going to vote, and then we'll see how it's going to go. Is it? Here. I'd like the MPs and the MPs to join in. I guess we all have the keys to see the quorum. Please, colleagues and colleagues, let's get involved and see the quorum. No one's getting involved. The Jell-O, too. If we see it on the other one, we'll warn others. Here we have 90, so we have a quorum and we can start. Good morning, everyone! Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with the session and agenda item that we interrupted on Friday on the proposal for a minimum wage bill. The first is Mr Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9677	Thank you very much, Mr. President, honourable government representatives, distinguished fellow MPs. In fact, this law has multiple meanings for the entire economic and social system of the Republic of Croatia. First, the minimum wage becomes a legal obligation. Secondly, this law ensures the continued growth of minimum salaries related to the gross social product. Thirdly, this is a significant contribution to reducing work to black, which is certainly one of the major problems of the Croatian economy. And also, this law in the long term creates a basis for the calculation of larger pensions. Surely one of the greatest values of this law is the fact that the social partners, therefore both employers and union representatives together with the government, have reached agreement and agreement on such an important topic. This law follows the best experiences from the European Union. Therefore, more than 2/3 of the countries that have regulated the minimum wage problem by law. It should also be believed that, in the near future, we will be able to overcome that default European Union average of minimum wage. We should congratulate the Government of the Republic of Croatia who, as co-ordinator of this negotiation process, played a key role and, together with the social partners, successfully brought the job to an end. Also, social partners and trade unions and employers have shown a high level of maturity and I am convinced that they have done the best that could at this economic moment. In fact, the time ahead and the current crises put before our employers great trials and challenges, above all the energy crisis. So in our macroeconomic environment, the price of crude oil has increased by over 100% in the last year. Also, there are large amounts of food that should not be seen one time in the context of last year’s drought. Food is becoming a global problem, the diet of the world's population, and it is certainly a topic for governments and policies to deal with in the next period. There are also financial crises that have been transferred from the United States to both the European Union and our environment, and it is certain that they will also affect the price of money, the price of capital, the amount of interest. Therefore, these are all macroeconomic parameters in our environment that will affect both investment levels and the purchasing power of the population, but also economic growth. And that's where Croatia is not isolated. We are part of the global market and it is clear that our employers, our employers, will have to make a lot of efforts to streamline the input through technological development, through a more quality product, to preserve competitiveness primarily in the demanding markets of the European Union. Speaking of the environment, it is also important to mention the data related to minimum wage in the countries of the European Union which, as well as Croatia, passed the transition, but not the war. According to EUROSTAT, minimum salaries in the 27 members of the European Union, 20 of which guaranteed minimum salaries in Bulgaria ranged from 92 euros to 1570 euros per month in Luxembourg in January this year. And if we take the Croatian minimum since 1 July of this year, it will be 379 euros higher than in 9 European Union countries, so in Bulgaria 92 euros, in Romania 114 euros, in Latvia 172 euros, in Lithuania 174 euros, in Slovakia 217 euros, in Estonia 230 euros, in Poland, 246 euros, in Hungary, 257 euros. Therefore, with our initial 379 euros as of 1 July this year, we are better, or stronger than 9 European Union countries. However, it should also be said that the minimum salary of 2747 kuna gross, if we compare them with the cost of living with a consumer basket that passes for a four-member family, and 1000 euros will not be dealt with safely overnight and thus solve the problem of purchasing power and the standards of employees who receive and work for a minimumer. So, they're somewhere around 150,000. The problem pays in the long run won't solve this law. This law is only a strong step and a great success of the social partners and Croatian government in protecting workers' rights. The problem of wages needs first and foremost to address the growth of the economy and faster implementation of structural reforms, especially in these industrial intensive activities such as wood processing, such as textiles and such as leather-buttering. Only accelerated economic growth can permanently solve the problem of wages and it is good that the minimums under this law are related to the growth of gross social product. Economic growth needs to solve the other important problem, which is the problem of unemployment. Since this year's unemployment rate is reduced by 11.9% if we observe April of last year and April of this year, the number of unemployed is reduced by 11.9%, as the data is encouraging and we believe that the Croatian government will in this term reach that planned unemployment rate of 7%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9678	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9679	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I would like to speak with a few words about this adoption and the proposal for a minimum wage law. Here, as we know in the Republic of Croatia, unlike most European countries, there is no minimum wage issue regulated by law, but in practice the concept of minimum wage is used. A collective contract on the lowest salary of '98. for a certain period of time, the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, employers' associations, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, credit-saving cooperatives, foreign representations, independent union alliances and queens of Croatian trade unions and public services. It has been established that the minimum wage level, meaning gross, cannot be lower than the lowest basis for the calculation and payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance established by certain rules. The lowest wage rate in the average salary in the Republic of Croatia currently stands at 35%. With this proposal, it will be 39% of the salary in 2007. It was said here in previous discussions that some European Union countries, for example, have 50% of Ireland, I don't think we can compare ourselves with them because we know that unfortunately we have had a war and that, here is more than half of our country has been occupied and killed in war, so I don't think it's realistic to expect that we have the same relationship that Ireland currently has. However, the fact that, at the moment, it is not satisfactory to cover employers and workers in branches and collective contract activities, which points to the conclusion that one number of employees is not covered by regulatory minimum wage. What questions will be settled by this law? The law lays down the amount of minimum wage as well as the method of harmonisation of minimum wages, the exercise of supervision of the application of the law provision and sanctions for non-payment of minimum salaries to workers. Given that existing industrial branches could not withstand a certain level of minimum wage, i.e. In view of the problem of permanent and individual work on intensive industrial branches. First of all, we are talking about the textile, wood processing and leather shoe industry for these industrial cities, the share of minimum wages in a certain period of time will be able to increase with the following coefficients, meaning that they would go in the first year of 0.94, in the second 0.96, and in the third 0.97, and in the fourth year it would be 0.98. We know that these branches are in a very bad position in some way, but we also know that the government has already provided and provided significant financial resources from both the budget support and the information we have, I think that these support will be safe and greater than it has ever been. What is important to say is that at a working tripartite meeting held on 7 May 2008, the Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Employers' Association and 6 union centres reached a consensus on the above issues, the content of the Minimum Payment Act. And what's important to say is that all that's agreed on is, here and translated into this normative content of the law and I think it's also very important. What positive consequences result from the adoption of the Minimum Salary Act? Here is the lack of a certain minimum wage regulation in the Republic of Croatia as well as the current minimum wage amount significantly endangers the existence of a part of the employees and their families and affects tax ejaculation and the occurrence of work on black. I think it's going to go down a lot just like that on black, especially since here's the tax number, that's what we're introducing. Personal identification number. I think that's how it's gonna stop and that's exactly the problem. The adoption of the Minimum Salary Act, the minimum salary from 1 July 2008, will be at 39% of the average salary from 2007 so that the minimum wage from the current 2 000 441 kuna would be 2 thousand 747 kuna, i.e. around 300 kuna per worker. What else will be achieved by this law? The minimum wage law will ensure adequate protection of workers, improve the social position of workers, and provide equal operating conditions for all business entities. In addition, a good assessment of the solution establishing the supervision of the application of the Minimum Payment Act is also given as it has been warned of the practice in which employers respect the law on payment of wages, while avoiding payment of wage contributions and requiring the implementation and strict control of the application of this law. Here, this law will also improve the social status of workers who have the lowest wage, and the total employees participate in it in 7.6% or, here's about 115 thousand. For all the above, I will support the passing of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9680	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Goran Maric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9681	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Ms. Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In view of the exceptional importance of this proposal for a minimum wage law, I would like to say a few introductory sentences on the economy and economy. Although the economy covers all kinds of topics, it is committed to understanding how society allocates its scarce resources to produce valuable goods and distribute them among different people. There are several theories about the purpose of economic activity, and two extremes stand out, one that favors the state and one that favors individuals. It personally believes that the purpose of economic activity should be to use all natural resources and material and human in such a way that it is in a function of general good and for the benefit of all people, thus meeting the needs of every human and society. As we set ourselves by this question, so we set ourselves against all other issues of social life. It is known that entrepreneurship and market freedom are the cornerstones of the development of each economy, as referred to in Article 49. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. No matter what the average soldier thinks differently than the average professor, what always the average lawyer thinks differently than the average doctor, or what the average entrepreneur thinks differently than the average employee, it is undeniable that man and his work are the most important factor and entrepreneurship and economic activity in general. It is therefore easy to conclude that the economy is in direct correlation with the efficiency of entrepreneurship and that the efficiency of entrepreneurship is directly dependent on the efficiency of each employee. The level of efficiency of employees, except for his abilities, is mostly influenced by motivation. Many techniques are known to be motivated by the working conditions of the organisational climate, participation in decision-making, but one of the most important motivational techniques is the amount of work compensation, i.e. the amount of pay. It is true that without cost cuts, there is no organisational efficiency, but it is also true that without adequate work compensation there is no adequate staff effectiveness. And it should always be borne in mind that work compensation should be appropriate to the Imput, i.e. effort made in the work, experience, responsibility, skills, training of employees and many other factors used by the employee in his work. It is also true that entrepreneurship carries an extremely large responsibility with it. Responsibility for the technological process, responsibility for business partners, responsibility for the means of work, for the property of the company, responsibility for the employees, but also social and social responsibility. In view of the thousands of salaries which employees are unable to meet even the minimum need for necessary living conditions and given that some employers do not pay even minimalised benefits to employees, it is obvious that in some segments of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship there is a reduced level of presence of a normative economy, which includes ethical regulations and judgments on values. I therefore welcome the minimum wage bill, which will be at a level of 39% of the average salary for 2007, so that the minimum or minimum wage with current 2,441,00 kuna will increase to around 2,740,00 kuna or 300,00 kuna per employee. Since this proposal is the result of the union negotiations and agreements, the Association of Employers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the government has confirmed that it is ready for talks and agreements with social partners and has a sense of social responsibility. In fact, the Minimum Payment Act will improve the status of about 115 thousand employees who have so far had a salary below 2.500,00 kuna gross and will bring many employees into a more favourable material position than the collective contract currently allows. It is doubtless that the social issue in society is not only an economic but also a moral issue. It is also doubtless that the social issue in society is becoming increasingly a matter of redistribution. Congratulations to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for sending this draft minimum wage law to the Croatian Parliament, which will improve the material status of the most endangered, but which will lead to a slight redistribution within business organisations, and the redistribution places definitely have, in particular, in view of the tendency to distribute so-called. the top management in relation to the middle and operational management levels and, in particular, direct executives and employees at the lowest hierarchical level. Knowing that entrepreneurship is the most important driver of social development, but knowing that entrepreneurship can also meet the needs of employers and the needs of entrepreneurs, as well as the needs of decent human existence and the achievement of the living minimum for all employees, I will be happy to vote for this proposal for a minimum wage law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9682	Thank you. We have a replica. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9683	Thank you very much. Here I have responded to the replica offered already in two presentations that support this law as if it would solve the problem of the black economy, i.e. paying salaries on black. It is the fact that part of the salaries will increase these minimum salaries and will contribute, the state will collect a certain contribution, but this law cannot solve the problem of paying salaries on black rather than solving the problem more efficiently by state inspection. So I ask you not to justify the adoption of this law in a way that we will address the problem of paying black wages but that one is strengthened by supporting state inspections to try to force those irresponsible employers to pay the correct wages to Croatian workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9684	Mr. Maric's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9685	Thank you very much. Probably this replica was sent to me, but in my presentation, I didn't even mention a word about paying black wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9686	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9687	In your debate, you spoke about entrepreneurship, you spoke about motivation in some way and for work and for entrepreneurship, and I am interested in some way in your personal opinion, and I would also like to hear the proposal's opinion. It seems to me that in the debate on this whole law we have forgotten a large number of people seem to me to be over 105 thousand who are craftsmen, who are in some way small entrepreneurs, hiring themselves and members of their family or a smaller number of people. Over, about 45% of these craftsmen have blocked accounts and if we don't provide some kind of support, as was the case during the coalition government where in the first year of the craft they had a 50% reduction of contributions and 25 to sort of spy their crafts, I don't know how we're going to make sure that they, as their employers, pay their own minimum wage when they're in a blockade for months because of all the benefits they have from the state. So when we talk about the development of entrepreneurship, when we're talking about motivation for work, then I think we need to think about craftsmen, or we're going to opt for strategy, okay. Let everyone work for a minimumer at some mall. I don't think either of you or anyone in this room is up for that kind of change. So when we talk and talk about this law, I think we've completely forgotten the craftsmen, any laws, any other measures that would provide them with both survival and business. The craftsmen in the Croatian society in the economy have a need, have a tradition and I think we completely forgot them by arguing in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9688	Thank you. Ms. Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9689	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. Already in the debate on Friday's final bill, much has been said as part of my review. First of all, I have to say that I would remind myself of the 60th year when the German writer Max Frisch of Swiss origin said, "We were looking for labour, people came." We have here addressed about half a million people with a side and a half of the law. You know, it's a bit of a Pharisee and a form that contains the fates of half a million people, and it contains them. It contains maybe a little more than today than it was until Friday when we had the number we discussed here whether it was good, whether it should be introduced into the law. In the meantime, there have been such gatherings that today, when we adopt this law or Friday, will no longer be in line with this figure that we have cited, and especially not with that figure relating to percentages in certain industries that we kind of discriminate against. On the one hand, we are passing a good law on discrimination in the process is in the debate on committees that are in agreement, and then we are passing a law that is just coming into this so as to say the trap of discrimination on individual professions. It's simply not for any government to say so wisely, let alone usefully to the people they refer to. However, I must say that this is the law as laid down in these 8 articles he actually shows that the government washes its hands. Where the government needs to intervene, in the leather industry, in the textile industry, wood-processing, there her interventions are minimal, and someone mentioned last Friday that the budget is going to be 10% more than expected. Therefore, there would be no problem if this relationship to certain professions had certainly been better worked out, if so, that the budget is really going to be 10% as said. Of course, the gathering we witness or witness these days, which was announced last night, puts everything in one other relationship. That's right with other laws and cash fees, I agree, but this is exactly one transition that's very important. What to tell people today who have that amount of money that will be made available to them, and it is no longer enough in any way to fill that part of the basket that we are always discussing in principle. So the question is, when we're passing the law, we're not just going to bring it in. There were objections here why the government didn't bring it to me. I don't know the coalitions. I think the time has passed when such things are compared. 18 years and 13 years, in 18 years of 3 years, 3 years of another coalition is a small ratio to keep telling the same story over and over again. What has been done well has been done, and of course every government has the right to do what it has not achieved in its term of office. That's why we have elections, that's why governments change. I would therefore like to conclude this contribution and say this: We do not answer the responsible job that for people who receive minimum wage, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia we really ensure improvement, but we remove responsibility from the state, we transfer to employers, because employers are those who need to meet all these points and I think that the surveillance instrument is very missing in this regard. Therefore, regardless of what the law should be voted on because it has solved the case, it would have to experience one revision very quickly and one more dignified picture in fact for half a million citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia concerned, if we single out both craftsmen and all others who are thus abolished or forgotten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9690	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9691	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Ma a colleague said this law is questionable because it has a few pages of everything, and it's worth half a million people, which is incorrect. First of all, it doesn't apply to half a million people. I think by saying several times we've repeated what number of people this is about the law. Well, I'll do it one more time, maybe a colleague remembers it's some pussy. 115 thousand employees. And as far as it's concerned it's not a 500-page book that doesn't matter, it's important that it's quality and content. As for discrimination, I will remind you once again that yesterday the social partners discussed this law and unanimously agreed that this proposal for a minimum wage bill is good and that progress for Croatia is good. So let's not belittle something that the social partners really well rated, now let's not sing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9692	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9693	Article 209 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Kunst did not correct the incorrect allegations, but gave one opinion of the lady, which was presented by Mrs. Feric-Vac. ... No, no, ma'am, you don't understand. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mrs. Feric-Vac was talking about the 115 thousand families, so that's about half a million Croatian citizens, so whoever she's referring to, that's what she was saying. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9694	Hello. Please. There was a correction to the incorrect claim in line with the tradition in this House that the lady mentioned a figure that was challenged by Mr. Kunst. However, it is also a practice to make comments that are actually in the debate, but it is nothing extraordinary or anything special from what is done on the left and right and this one here on the middle side this whole time. So please, if you can not appeal to the breach of the Rules of Procedure because it is as I have said from the explanation it was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure in that formal sense. Here. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9695	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues, Vac, you have made good principles of discussion and have troubled the question of how many people this law applies to, or family. The potential provisions of this law can apply to all employees in Croatia. Someone who receives a minimumer today does not mean that they will receive it tomorrow and the one who receives full pay today does not mean that they will have it tomorrow. So, potentially this law applies to us in the Parliament. However, I was interested in the number of employees in the activities of textiles, leather, shoes, wood-processing, who were given the right of a reduced minimumer in four years. And if the statistics that I found at the State Statistics Office are correct, 64,000 people are employed in these activities today, so we're starting to prescribe the right for them, I'm not saying they'll all receive a minimumer, but potentially they can receive a reduced minimumer in the next four years. And finally, when we discussed it, there are now two years, and this is what my colleague Sobol reminded me of last time, the state of textiles as today's reason for the reduction of salary in the government's view was that Croatia must soon and it was suggested that it would be done soon so two years ago, to access the Pan-European diagonal cumulation on the origin of goods. Although that expression was strange at first, I tried to see what it was about. I ask if anyone knows whether the State Secretary can answer whether Croatia has joined the Pan-European Diagonal in the meantime cumulation on the origin of goods and has signed Annex 4 of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that would equate the textile Croatian industry on exportation to EU Member States with other countries
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9696	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9697	Which they signed and accessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9698	Ms. Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9699	I'm actually using a replica instrument and I'm adding something Mr. Lesar emphasized. So when we talk about numbers, then we talk about explicit numbers that are people who receive minimum wage, but Mr. Kunst shares something. These people also have a partner or a partner, maybe they have children, maybe they're a family of four, five or six people. Also persons working in the textile processing, textile, wood and leather industry. In the textile industry, almost 90% of women work. A total of these professions somewhere about 28 thousand people are employed, times at least three, so it comes to half a million. And I'm not pulling that number because it concerns the number of people, regardless of whether exactly those receiving minimum income are defined and we're not just thinking about one employee, but also about the environment in which they live. That's what citizens and citizens will call us for, whether their family has such an increase in standards with such minimal increases. Therefore, the state has something to do and to increase at least in this part of its responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9700	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9701	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Any measure that will help Croatian citizens to live better than their work, that their families have a better standard should be supported in advance. That is how I support the adoption of this law that will classify the Republic of Croatia among those countries that have such a law. As we have heard in previous discussions, it is done in the European Union in 20 to 27 countries. I also believe that this law will partially help and allow for the growth of the lowest salaries and the standard of the citizens who have these salaries. But the fact is that this law will not achieve that the economic and economic situation in Croatia, that all Croatian citizens live better, will not allow the government to take more active measures towards a better standard for Croatian citizens. The government must do so regardless of the laws passed by parliament. That should be her priority day-to-day work. The government must deal with the problems of day-to-day gatherings, rather than making more revenue based on these gatherings. For example, VAT and fuel collection means rising prices and rising VAT revenues. So next year we will hear about a small deficit, about the good charge of the state budget, and all of this is paid by my gentlemen and ladies by Croatian citizens through a constant increase in the prices we have witnessed over the past months and days. And it's always someone else's fault for the situation. A crisis on the world market, traders who make too much money on oil and so on. Today, this law regulates that from 1 July of this year, the minimum wage, as of 1 June this year, will be approximately 300 kuna gross, with a current approximately 2 thousand 400 kuna gross to 2 thousand 700 kuna, which will nominally increase the minimum net salary by just over 200 kuna. And look again, who will benefit most from this law? It will have a state, the state budget will settle through increased publishing for contributions and taxes and we will again, of course, listen to how the budget is well charged and the deficit is small. About an increase of 200, 300 kuna gross wages will fill the budget for 200 million kuna at an annual level. These workers who today have less than 2 thousand 500 kuna is gross to me around 115 thousand in Croatia. The union cart for March in Croatia is 6 thousand 445 kuna. It means that for a four-member family, three minimum wages should be paid. It should be recalled that only a third of working citizens work in Croatia. Clearly, not all of these 115 thousand people can live with dignity with neither the old nor the new minimum wage. A family of four should have at least two net salaries of 3 thousand 200 kuna so that they can live normally and with dignity from their work. In Croatia, about 400,000 employees are below that level. There are no measures that will facilitate the lives of Croatian citizens but through an increase in prices and an increase in the obligations of employers and citizens through contributions and wages are being charged with an ever better state budget, which is the money paid by all of us and the economy and citizens, an economy which we say is hard to fight for competitiveness, especially in the industries that the law itself provides for, textile, wooden, leather-buttering industry. And here we come to the greatest injustice this law defines which is that workers in these industries do not have the same rights as workers in all other economic branches. And it is in these branches that the highest percentage of workers who receive minimum salaries, who do not have the opportunity to generate any additional income other than their salary. In my view, this article in this law should be expelled and all workers should be brought into the same position and the state should have some subsidized and budgeted entrepreneurs on the basis of the additional revenue that will be made under this law and on the basis of all those purchases that take place over the past months. I believe this proposal of 39% minimum wage in average salary is insufficient for a decent life for Croatian workers. Two thousand kunas a month is not enough to live with dignity from your work. It's not enough to feed your family and all your loved ones. The percentage would have to be higher and would have to be at least 50% of the average salary. That amount shows no social sensitivity, and I support trade unions that initially asked for minimum wage to be at least 45% average. What could the government do to help all workers right now and to those who are 115 thousand and who receive less than 2 thousand 500 kuna gross? It could reduce the contributions that workers must pay and increase the untaxable base of Croatian workers' salaries. To remind you, two months ago, the SDP proposed measures to amend two laws that would currently allow for an increase in the net salary of workers by 300 kuna, not a gross increase but a net increase, and the most important difference is that this increase would not go to the burden of the economy which, as well as such, too many problems and its competitiveness is questionable. Now a few days ago, we see that this government is proposing some of these solutions. The other day, the finance minister said an untaxable base would be raised from a thousand 600 to a thousand 800 kuna. However, the SDP has suggested that this untaxed base be 1,000 kunas, so I cannot say that the idea is almost literally copied but, gentlemen, on our bill of law, you could only give a single amendment two months ago to make this non-taxable limit smaller, we would have accepted it as legislators, and today we would already have that law in place. Unfortunately, two months ago you didn't want to accept it, you said it was a huge cost for local self-government and today, two months later, you suggest the same measure. And let me just say that there could be some more refunding of that deficit in the state budget. We are witnessing daily fuel collection, and by now, up until now, the fuel has accumulated about a little bit more than the kuna, so almost to the kuna and a half per fuel. 50% of that income is generated by the state through excise duties, through VAT and through other taxes paid on fuel. So by simple calculation, if the country spends 3.5 billion gallons of fuel per year in the country, the state will generate approximately 33.5 billion more revenue than it was in the previous year. So all these increases and all the activities that we proposed to increase the average salary for the workers by 300 kuna, you could settle down from these revenues. And in the end, I say something about the seriousness of preparing such important laws regarding, said counterpart Feric-Vac, 500 thousand Croatian citizens. Some day at the meeting of the Committee on Economy, there was an unpleasant situation because it turned out that this proposal was not what the social partners agreed at the GSV meeting but that at the new GSV meeting some more things would change and the government would reform it. From what I've heard, there have been some other committees, and quality discussions have not been held on boards in the Croatian Parliament. I believe that such a way of preparing a law relating to half a million people, for which there has been enough time for both public debate and dialogue, is inadmissible for us in the House to debate on the basis of laws that will change substantially. And in the end, I will say, of course, that, as probably other colleagues, I will support a law that corrects at least something, something of a minimum social situation for citizens who need it most, but I think it is not enough and that we must strive for minimum wage to be at least 50% of the average salary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9702	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9703	Thank you very much. Well, look, fellow MP, I fully agree with you and I believe that everyone in Croatia, that minimum wage, perhaps today should be one 7,000 kuna. Undisputed. And I don't think anyone would mind. But don't underestimate the social partners and call the government, because this bill is a product, and that's what we discussed the agreements between the three social partners that adopted this Law. So it wasn't brought by the government. The government has only in fact verified him as one of the social partners. But they agreed first and foremost on what is a new value in this country, on... the level of two social partners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's employers and trade unions. Let us not underestimate, call discrimination related because certain industries are unfortunately not in such an economic situation that they can follow the agreed growth of minimum wage. But it is a great feature that over four years these employers will have to, or will have to close the company, ensure that workers have that minimum wage level, as other workers in Croatia do. Next, you call that something has been arranged and that the Government will go or not to some amendments. I'll tell you one more time, even though I said it in an earlier replica. Yesterday, a meeting of the Economic Social Council took place with three social partners. So representatives of the government, unions and employers. I'll read it to you later, which I answered here in conclusion. Where they uniquely continue to support, they even called out some that it was wrong for demagogues to try to influence or now cry over the fate of workers, and at times they were in a position to help these workers. And these 300 kunas that you mention, so look, when you take this, this growth in minimum wages and the growth of the non-taxable part from 1600 to 1800, it's about that much in your net amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9704	Mr. Gordan Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9705	Well, look, Mr. Kunst, I don't know how not to mention the government. The fact is that the government is the most responsible for the state of affairs in the country, even in these industrial branches. Who's stopping the government from helping these industrial branches be as competitive as possible. I told you, based on these gatherings that have been going on in recent months. The state budget is likely to be four billion kunas richer from the economy next year, from the pockets of Croatian citizens, so how do I cross the government to help these industries be more competitive on the market and make minimum wages as high as any other branch? Nothing gets past her, it's just a matter of good faith. And that's why I mentioned the government, because simply the government is much more responsible, you have to agree with me for the social situation in the state than these other partners in GSV.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9706	Another replica, Mr. Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9707	Here, I'd like to replicate my colleague Maras about, we're talking about excise duties all the time. I think here we have, we remember last year the government reduced the excise duty by 25 limes per litre, so we had a budget loss of some 400 million kuna, so after the first purchase of that excise charge to more and that costing... The guy wouldn't even feel it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're aware I think everyone today is... Oil has never been more expensive, let's not know today, 34 bucks, I think the last price, unfortunately, is not safe and the last price, that it certainly collects. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we talk about some kind of excise duty and this, a reduction of some kind there, those supplements we have on fuel. Well, I think you and I are aware that everything that's been built into a liter of gasoline. And that road credit and that's what your government introduced, we continued it. So we need to be aware that we can't go to that reduction right now. And now to cut the excise duty, gentlemen, before the tourist season, when we come to thank God tourists, full of fuel yachts, it would be very, I mean it wouldn't be very smart and economical for the country to do it right now. And as for some other subsidies as far as we have information, the budget is increasing, but also the government planned to set out this year precisely to cover these certain subsidies somewhere over a billion and 300 million kuna. I hope that at least part of it will solve the very problems I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9708	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9709	I can accept these arguments we're constantly listening to. The price of barrels of oil is increasing, the situation, so no, I think o.k, is increasing, but it's also true that the state's income is also based on VAT revenue. So the higher the price of oil, the higher the VAT revenue. There's no way in or out of the country, so there's only income. And those revenues are 22% of the price hike. If the price has increased by a kuna and a half, two, that means that the state has earned 30 liras per litre. If sold annually in a country of 3.5 billion liters, it is a billion kuna of the state's net profit at an increase in fuel prices. So let's not talk about this, the market crisis, the crisis of this, the one where a billion kuna per year from VAT comes true at that gathering. And this, this gathering generates all the other gatherings where again the state on VAT makes some money. So we need to be objective, not only is the crisis on the world market, but the state should have a little more hearing, and there is a greater impact on these prices so that Croatian citizens can live as well as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9710	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Davor Huška's turn. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9711	Dear President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. As much as this proposal for a minimum wage bill is summed up, it still raises a number of questions and dilemmas. Some of them were spoken of by my predecessors today and Wednesday last week, and I'll only say two questions that bother me. The first paragraph of Article 4(3) states that the share of the minimum wage in the average gross salary is increased by the percentage of the real growth of gross domestic product in the previous year according to the publication of the State Statistics Office. Here it is assumed that the share of minimum wages on average gross wages will always increase without exception. However, my question is what will happen to the minimum wage if we do not have a real growth of gross domestic product but rather a real decline that could happen here in 2008 already given the planned lower economic growth than inflation growth. My second dilemma, minimum wage, is a category with a distinct social charge. We all agree on that. And therefore its determination in the current Croatian conditions is therefore necessary under the conditions of high price growth and at the same time the fall of standards is absolutely necessary. Croatian workers are certainly waiting for the minimum wage law to be passed. But I would like to stress that there are huge differences between Croatian workers as well as among Croatian citizens in general. For example, a worker in Međimurje County traditionally receives 25% lower average salary than the average salary of Croatian workers. The minimum wage will be determined as a unique category for the whole country, so for all Croatian legal workers, it is determined in a way that is 39% of the average gross salary at the state level. Moreover, its growth is linked to the growth of the gross domestic product achieved at the national level as a sort of anchor. Of course it can't be any different. But I still want to point out the following. We know that the average salary in Croatia is largely influenced by Zagreb as the headquarters of large economic systems from those of INA, Croatian railways, HT, HP through large private corporations to state administration and banks. And it is certain that the legal persons in Zagreb or Istria, namely the only two units of regional self-government in Croatia who have higher average salaries than the republican average, will not have any problem in providing funds for the payment of minimum salaries or these initials and not those in line with the growth of gross domestic product because the clearly stronger local economy provides even more economic growth rates. We're familiar with that syntagma that money lies down. However, how the obligation to pay minimum salaries will be submitted by legal persons in rural areas which are significantly lagging behind in salaries, or how this will reflect the competitive capacity of their economies. To be quite specific. If the average gross salary at Croatia's level for 2007, this is the data of one administrative source, amounts to 7 thousand 104 kuna minimum wage of the estimated two thousand 747 kunas in the same share of 38%. And that's somewhere on a level that we predict is a minimum wage. According to the same source, the average gross salary in the city of Zagreb is 8 thousand 796 kuna, which means that the minimum wage is participated in an average share of 31%. And how much is the minimum wage of two thousand 747 kuna in the average gross salary of the Međimurje County whose economy is unfortunately working intensively, lowly profitable or still extremely important is both the textile and footwear and wood-processing industries, therefore precisely those activities for which minimum wage is determined. And, of course, where the country's resistance should be far greater. They are now at the level of symbolic help compared to the size of the problems that exist in these activities. The average gross salary in Međimurje County for 2007 is 5 thousand 096 kuna, which means that the share already mentioned minimum salaries of two thousand 747 kuna makes up as much as 54% of the same. So more than half. I repeat the minimum wage in Zagreb accounts for 31% of the average gross salary and 54% in Međimurje. I would like to stress that I support that the work and the worker protect themselves with minimum wage, primarily because of the fact that most of the extraprofits of Croatian entrepreneurs are based precisely on the non-payment of work. However, I would like to point out once again that one good idea in its realisation will be significantly devalued precisely because of the existence of these huge differences in the economic development of certain parts of our country, which are most expressing precisely at the level of the average salaries of employees. In some regions, the provision of these minimum salaries will be painless and the intended goal will be to protect the human dignity of workers as partners in the business process. On the contrary, in some regions, the minimum wage will be a major financial burden. It will cause a further decline in the competitiveness of the local economy, and thus further lagging behind these counties for the more developed part of Croatia. So we are always going back to the necessity of decentralisation of Croatia for its more even development with the aim of eliminating these huge differences in the degree of development. Croatia is simply too small a country for such great differences among its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9712	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9713	Honorable President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This is a rather difficult debate because in this debate I have to admit it's almost impossible to be honest. Today we are discussing here that more than 115 thousand people live on the poverty line or below the poverty line and that now with some crumbs that we are going to assign to them by this law, or maybe they will get them to have enough to live in the future, in the future. At the same time, each of the state officials this year received a 6% salary increase, and that 6% is much more than the amount of what it will be, which brings this law or the salary increase from this law. Therefore, each of us was obviously necessary and we did not object in any way against it, and some state officials who have large salaries such as ministers, prime ministers, the president of the state and others received a salary increase this year more than will be the minimum wage paid under this law. And we're now pointing here to explain how something terrible we're doing to increase these people's wages and how it should make their lives easier. And while we're trying here, I have to admit in a completely dishonest way, on the other hand, the government is obviously sending this law into the process to make an excuse for all the great gatherings that are currently going or will follow until July 1st. Since this law entered the procedure of some kind of gasoline they've collected for the kuna. The range of oil from the election to today has collected the most. So, of all the gasoline or all the power plants, it has collected the most, and perhaps the prime minister should correct his statement and say: “We will not defend the euro diesel at 8 kuna, but we will defend the vine oil at 8 kuna. Because I'm afraid that by the new heating season, which is so in October, the vine oil will be over 8 kuna. What we're talking about today will be eaten by the crowds before the law comes into force. It enters into force on July 1st, which means that workers and workers will be paid for July. So, paid somewhere in August or maybe later because unfortunately you still don't pay your wages regularly just increased by this percentage that we're talking about here today. Until then, it's perfectly certain that the gas will collect. Until then, it is quite certain that they will collect the price of electricity. I hope it won't be 20% as they write a daily newspaper today. It is quite certain that the gas will be collected by then and who knows what else it will collect by then. So we're not talking about nutrition at all, hygiene, clothing and everything else that one family and one citizen need for a normal life. And we here today, therefore, resist to explain to the citizens, here's how it's good that they'll get a little more pay, and when they get it for sure and with such a higher salary, they'll be able to buy less than they can buy today with such small wages. So, on the one hand, a really positive action to correct or define that minimum wage. But on the other hand, I think it's an alibi for the government to push through the entire force of the collection she announced and that she agreed it wouldn't be until July 1st, but this July 1st, when we all go on vacation, those who have money will maybe go somewhere outside of their place of residence. The rest will be at home and sparring for the fall, because autumn will obviously be some not hot, but cold because it will not simply have such a small salary such a large minimum wage will not have money to pay for the heating. I'd like to say something here about the state as an employer. We've heard stories here about how private employers have difficulties and I can really understand them. I can especially understand private employers who have been creating businesses since the beginning. I cannot understand the employers who participated in privatisation and who are now saying they have difficulties. I cannot understand the employers involved in privatisation without the state ignoring them, because the state had to benefit from such privatisation. And what I can't understand most is the state as an employer. Because as an employer, how can the state say that they will pay less wages in the leather and shoe industry than minimum wage? What kind of state is an employer if she cannot commit herself to paying workers a salary that is not worthy of their lives, but which is a minimum wage. How come there's money here for us in the Parliament, and how come there's no money to pay these people at least minimum pay. Well, the state's an employer, the state owns it, the state's privatization has ruined a lot of jobs. The state has made this situation possible in the textile, shoe and leather industry. And someone in those transfers earned it. We're talking about Mejimur. So what happened there with MTC. So how much money from MTC has been drawn, so that today these people are in an objective difficulty. But not the workers. It's not their fault for the situation, it's the fault of the state that made such privatisation possible and it's those who took advantage of the position of the privatisation. I have one quite another example, one shoe company in which the state is 70% owner and where you don't talk gentlemen about minimum wage. I've got a few payrolls in a few months. One lady got 1017 kuna. The second one's got 540 kuna. The third received 655 kuna. 4th 1013 kuna for full-time work. Under the current laws, the state owns the company's flow. 879 kuna, and you know how much the director of this company got? 40,000. How is it that the state in its company pays the workers a salary of 800, 900 kuna, while there are 40,000 kunas for the director and for the world around the directors there are still a bunch of money, and for the workers there are no. When workers accidentally approach the norm, the norm rises immediately so that they do not even get minimum wage. If the director is so successful that he must have such a salary, why is his company in such a situation? If he's not successful, why does he have more than a minister's salary? The state owns it. I'm not talking about a private employer here and there should be redistribution here, because we can't happen to make excuses all the time for some, and there are always some workers, pensioners, unemployed, and there are no excuses for others. Some others have a very comfortable life, very comfortable living on such an accident by those who have been exploited in their work. It's impossible for someone to work 184 hours and get 1,000 kunas paid in hands, including 13 kuna travel expenses per day. Will the 13 kuna travel expenses a day be enough to pay for gas or public transportation to come to work and from work. That's not even an employer's concern. And I see it's not a matter of the state or any way that makes a fat profit from the price of energy growth. Therefore, I have proposed an amendment that this law regarding textiles, wood and leather does not apply to companies in which the state is the owner. The state cannot afford to pay a salary less than minimum wage in companies where it owns more than one. In particular, we cannot allow it when we as a state, when the state is the owner, should not allow it in companies where private employers are, in particular, not in those who have come out of conversion because even those who enter into conversion have to give an elaborate, they have to pay something, the state has made some income and if nothing else has a moral obligation now, even if that part of the privatised money through subsidies and encourages them to return to those workers that they can have a decent salary as well. Although I repeat, I cannot understand, I do not know how anyone will be able, how someone can today, and how someone will be able to live with this salary that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9714	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9715	A colleague Mršić said this Law is an excuse to the government. That's not true. It's exactly something else, and that's that this minimum wage law is just the basis you use for politicizing. Your criticisms are unfounded, it's a criticism just for criticism. Otherwise very often when the unions make a deal with the government you immediately criticize. The question of minimum wage is a well done job, the social partners supported the proposal and therefore it is something that corresponds to absolute truth. And when you speak yet another claim of wages, then a colleague of the Thinman, and the mayors have good wages, so do you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9716	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9717	Well, I wanted to replicate to my colleague, Mr. Lobster, I'm sorry I didn't replicate the wrong quote, but it's the same thing as an excuse for raising the government which is not true. Why are we always trying to avoid the fact that this law is the product of social partners' agreement? So there's no excuse from the government, and that product came out after two years of social partners' negotiations. But I'd use this for something else. My colleague Mršić here I invite you to say the name of this company that paid these salaries to workers and for how many hours spent at work, and then I ask that the inspection services do their part of the job to this employer and inform us about it. And I'm asking you to name it, there's no need for it to be a state-owned firm, to keep her name secret, and to pay for such wages. If I understand correctly, in 184 hours of work, what did you say? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9718	Replica, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9719	Thank you very much. Mr. Mršić, I share the same concern with you that this increase alone during the debate on this law is worth less than it was worth ten days or a month ago because we witnessed daily price increases, only yesterday the fuel collected for 40-50 lips. As you said, the lot of oil has accumulated most of all of the energy. And this second part of your debate about whether or not the state has any money. There may be no money at this time, but by passing this law of these 300 kuna gross increases in the minimum wage, the state will be incometing 130 kuna per employee. Which means 130 kuna contributions and taxes times 115 thousand Croatian citizens to whom this law will apply is approximately 15 million kunas each month or 200 million kuna per year. So unless she has so far had money to pay these ladies or gentlemen workers who have paid 800,00, 900,00 1,000,00 kuna, with this 200 million kuna, she will be able to correct that injustice when this law is passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9720	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9721	Well, fellow Maras, I do not dispute that the state does not have money but at this point swims in money because it charges a huge difference in VAT and excise duties compared to what was planned at the beginning of this year. Because this huge VAT revenue from the rise in the price of gasoline is simply extra income, because it was not planned and if the state is already charging it, if it explains why it can't correct the VAT rate on gasoline, then it would really be correct that there are over billions of kunas that will be charged this year at a price difference in fuel prices from VAT simply returns as transfers to those most at risk. Unfortunately, they will not do this again systematically but as was the announcement of Minister Shuker, they will again gather it into the state budget and then, by redistributing politically and discreetly, decide who needs to be given some help and who should not be given any help. And one more thing, I don't argue that this law is the result of really social partners' agreement, and I welcome it, and I think it's a good thing. There were some dissonations, they were corrected yesterday on the Economic and Social Council and it's totally unquestionable. I'm just saying that the government is skillfully using this social partners agreement to push through a whole series of gatherings that will happen this year, on the other hand. I would like the HDZ colleagues to say there will be no electricity collection, not that it is not an excuse for this law. That there will be no gas collection, that there is no need to raise so many oil prices gentlemen, so we produce 15% or 20% of oil in Croatia. Well, it's not like the price of oil in Croatia's oil barrel in Croatia is the same thing as $134. Ina may be able to sell us that oil something cheaper or we can charge the concession on that oil.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9722	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9723	Thank you. So in one part of his presentation, Mršić said he did not understand the state as an employer, and here I have to admit that I was able to understand, that is, to use such an expression, I was enlightened by the report on the large profits of companies without employees. In fact, the state’s behaviour, or government, in the purchase of gasoline, reminds me precisely that without any work, without any effort, is simply profiting from the rise in the price of oil in the world market, only it is beautifully calculated into the purchase price, it is neatly up to taxes, excise duties and all that goes towards a formula. I've been thinking about what to call it for a long time, so if we already have a Swiss formula to calculate the amount of pensions, then this is where the state is benefiting from an increase in price and imposed by oil buyers can be freely called a smuggling formula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9724	Thank you. Mr. Mršić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9725	Well, my colleague Bauk, I'm glad you mentioned the pensioners. We're talking to 115 thousand workers today, and these workers are really going to get a little increase. But unfortunately, we have also ignored the craftsmen spoken of by our colleague Lugaric, but we have not talked about pensioners since the beginning of this year. The pensioners did not get any significant increase this year, they will get it only in the summer, but this increase will be thick below inflation, this increase will be under the increase in living costs and what is unfortunately the saddest thing in the whole story, the share of average pensions in the average salary from month to month declines, but it is also a statistical indicator of what our pensioners are even more concerned about, that every day when they go to trade or when they have to buy or pay or buy electricity or buy gasoline, simply that they will be able to shelter or be able to shelter less liters of gasoline, that they will be able to shine less, that they will be able to heat less from July 1st, and certainly an increase in pensions from July 1st will not be able to monitor the growth of these costs at which the state has a direct impact. And speaking of increasing electricity costs to that 20% increase in electricity prices, the state will earn 22% again, which means that somewhere 18% is an increase, and 2% of it will go back to the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9726	Thank you. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9727	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The lack of a certain minimum wage regulation in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the current minimum wage amount, poses a significant threat to the existence of a part of the employees and members of their families and affects the tax ejaculation and the occurrence of work on black. In the structure of personal consumption of households in the Republic of Croatia, according to data provided by the State Statistics Institute, it is evident that 3 groups of food, housing, energy and transportation of Croatian households stand out the most funds and 58.55% of total funds intended for personal consumption. By passing the Minimum Payment Act, the minimum gross salary of July 1st would be 2 thousand 758 kuna, workers would receive 2 thousand 207 kuna in their accounts. They calculated in an alliance of independent trade unions in Croatia. Despite the agreement that the lowest salary in Croatia should not be below 39% of the average salary in the previous year, however, several tens of thousands of workers will still receive less than that in Croatia. Due to the difficult situation in the textile, wood and leather-based industry, the lowest wage in these activities will be 94% of the minimum wage, in 2009, in 2010. 97 etc. This means that from July 1st, the minimum gross salary would be 2 thousand 592 kuna. So far, Croatia has not had a minimum wage, but only a minimum basis for calculating the contribution of 2 thousand 441 kuna, but it has only been made to ensure that the state collects the charges on that amount, not how many workers receive on its own accounts, although on the basis of these minimum bases it should receive a thousand 890 kuna. Respecting the circumstance that, according to the data available in the Republic of Croatia, 115 thousand workers receive a salary of up to 2 and a half thousand kuna, this law will improve the socio-work position of workers who have the lowest incomes and participate in total employment by 7.6%. The question arises how will the Minimum Salary Act guarantee workers that they will indeed receive it. Workers will be able to sue any employer who does not pay minimum wage, and the inspection will also monitor how much wages workers receive, and not only are they on a minimum basis paid to the state? Of course, as so far, everything will depend on instruments for law enforcement and, of course, on the efficiency of the judiciary. As much as it gives workers security and optimism, time will tell. The adoption of the Minimum Salary Act will make the situation worse in the textile, footwear and leather industry, and some employers threaten to abolish production in Croatia and move to neighbouring countries. The minimum wage law will further worsen the situation in these industries, and the largest number of employees will turn the workers into second-row workers. The proposed minimum wage law discriminates against a large number of workers, which is unacceptable. All Croatian legal workers should have the same minimum wage. The adoption of the proposed Minimum Payment Act will annul the established level of rights defined by collective agreements and social agreements in sectoral social dialogue. In addition, profitability will be further impaired and the viability of companies in the textile, footwear, leather and rubber sectors will be reduced. The salaries of employees in these sectors with the application of the Minimum Payment Act will continue to be significantly lower than the salaries of other Croatian workers, so they will also bear the entrepreneurial risk of their employers in their incomes. If we compare the latest amount of Croatian minimumer with those in other European countries, it is evident that Croatian workers will earn more than Hungarian, but less than Slovenian. In fact, the minimum wage in Hungary is 38% of the average salary, while in Slovenia workers receive 522 euros, which is 46% of the average Slovenian salary. How will a person live on a minimum when, according to estimates, 30 to 40% of the total income is spent on food. According to data published by the European Commission, food prices in Croatia last year were 87% of the European Union average. At the same time, the average Croatian salary is 26% of the average salary in the Union. This 300 kuna increase will not improve a worker's quality of life and beyond, it is too little for a normal and worthy life of man. It is important to stress that we should not be proud of ourselves because we are doing something revolutionary for Croatian workers. We should try to live a whole month with two kids from that minimumer, so we'll see if it's a good deal or not. Or better yet, you should try to live without any wages for several months, until the employer has mercy and pay, as the living workers of the Dalmatians or the Sibean Magazines would soon find a way to work out the rule of law, to enforce and respect existing laws. And finally, I would say this law should certainly be supported as a transitional measure aimed at a permanent solution to the issue of fair wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9728	Thank you. We're moving on to a five-minute debate for the clubs. She's the first one to be Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9729	Thank you, Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I think we should look into the situation we're in today's minimum wage law. So we have inflation that currently stands at 5.7% and has a trend of growth. If we put this in relation to new energy-related clusters, hence liquid fuels, soon to other energy sources where double-digit increases are announced, this will increase significant separations from the family. Today, the situation is that the average salary paid for the 3rd month is 4000 824 kuna, while the union cart is 6 thousand 206 kuna. So one average salary cannot cover the costs, the minimum cost of the family. Such a proposal would actually require three minimum family salaries at the moment to cover the minimum costs of the family. Why do we say that the government is responsible and should have seen problems before? Because we believe that the government's responses to this situation in society are cascaded to solve the problem, not pre-predict the situation, the problems are not met, but are trying to shift to others, as is evident through this law. So there are several dilemmas in the law itself. We have a defined minimum wage of 39%, and at the same time, we still have the lowest wage that is the basis for paying our contributions. At the same time, the Law on Mandatory Contributions should be amended and it should be said that contributions are paid on minimum wage. The next problem we see is in Article 4(3), where it is said that the minimum wage will grow, the share of minimum wages that will grow with the average growth of the social gross product is discussed. It can be interpreted in many ways. One of these is that, let's say, a percentage of 39% of the shares, if GDP growth is 4% increase by 4%, add up those 4%. And so for years we can come to an average salary, even above the average salary. Therefore, there is no limit to which this maximum share of minimum wages in average salary. On the other hand, it is not said what will happen if we have a negative growth rate, or if we have a decline in social gross product. That means a minimum wage reduction. It would probably be more realistic if they were to align with the growth of the average salary, possibly a share in the social gross product. Most, what is most unacceptable is actually Article 5, where it really is brought, which really leads to discrimination between certain groups of employees in certain activities. We believe that such a situation is not good and that the Government must not remain on such a proposal. We have also proposed in the club the addition of that article or amendments to Article 5 in order to add a new paragraph 2 where the difference to the full minimum wage for the activities referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article would be ensured in the national budget. It's possible to do. We think that activities that employ a highly employable category of workers, which is women's labour force and activities that participate significantly in the export of Croatia which is insufficient and if we want to keep such a tendency that there must be certain support from the budget. Other questions are also asked. We think this is a fire strike. What does the government do about industrial policy? What does the government do to reduce labour costs? We also have one pay paratax, which is a health contribution paid only by employees and used by all citizens. What about an increase in employment? In Croatia, the share of the employed population in the working part of the population is low. What about increasing competitiveness? So that's all the questions the government doesn't give an answer to, and actually they're the causes of what we have in the country today. So, we suggest that Article 5 be amended and, of course, we will adopt the Minimum Salary Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9730	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9731	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I will repeat one thesis that I once said, that this law that is before us today is the failure of the union, the triumph of the government over the unions, although on the other hand what is certainly good, that first time after '98. This unregulated issue is regulated by law. However, I personally believe that these issues should be regulated by collective agreements. But it will only be possible when the union becomes a subject. Unfortunately, it wasn't the '80s when he only cared about the trips and the pig's half. The union was not a subject in the 1990s when a brutal privatisation took place in Croatia, nor was it a subject in the second half of the '90s when independent trade unions did not participate in those large Zagreb protests, and unfortunately, the union is not a subject today, because nobody but employees in public enterprises and privatised companies at this time does not want to join the union. And it needs to be opened up just like this and said. And where the daughter of a union branch works for Agrokor, and they can generously donate, we saw it yesterday after a football game of as many as 4 and a half million kunas, where Polancec scored a great goal as if Blažević trained him. The other thing I'm saying is, this law is most likely and unconstitutional. Why? Because the minimum wage cannot be minimum for one and for others, as this Article 5 suggests, and it is about textiles, leathers, etc., goes below minimum. This is deeply unconstitutional to me, and that is precisely why these issues need to be settled by collective agreement for each dam individually. For leather, for textiles, for shipbuilding, for municipal administration, for public administration, etc., etc. The country in which the government takes over the union's business, and employers take over the government's work and where the unions are only a decor of those agreements, for a long time it will not be a happy country. And it can't be a happy country where everyone forgets about, say, the male murdered unionist, the Perjury family of the Rabbit Synonym, for one institutional violence, has been compensated by some compensation, or by some in this House, and some in this House could tell us more about it. I also read on Saturday an interesting column of Borislav Skegra where I personally attacked him for only one VAT rate, but this Shkegrin VAT was, as I would say, the basis of every government policy from his time to today. He writes about the inability to impose a formula of a type of minimum wage must be as much or as much as the average and speaks of an existential minimum and perhaps these 2,000, 700 kuna can only be some existential "minimum". So there's no illusions either, we all forget how hard it is to make money. Two thousand 400 or two thousand 700, or three thousand kuna. We don't increase anyone's salary, it's increased by employers, and it needs to be known, by those who make money. We don't know how hard it is to charge for a job, how hard it is to get money in an insolvency country, etc. But we're also fortunately all aware that we're being followed by difficult years, expensive energy, expensive food, rudely expensive oil. It took me today from Sava here to Zagreb an hour. Our minimum wage worker works all month long to buy 250 liters of breathing, in Germany it is 700 liters of breathing. True, Germany has a three-time better standard than ours, it's three times more developed than we are, but we forget here and another detail that in 2002 it wasn't necessary to sell to INA, which, for the first three months of this year, made about 570 million profits. HEP was not privatised, it was priced for three years. INA is a Buddha why, it was sold that year, and here they are today sharing profits instead of taking part in those costs in some way. I'm also calling this time to take care of the weak ones. These are clear with workers and pensioners, as well as small merchants, craftsmen, small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, because on these people the rest of the country, the most there are, the most employed and the only one in the country seems to me to be getting nothing today. And just to say that these people didn't get anything, the workers who were lucky to have a social apartment managed to buy it, farmers for one kuna unless the Istrians could get to the country, socialist directors and selectors of the HDZ government got companies, factories, hotels, gun smugglers getting monopolies, prisoners got a country in this country and craftsmen couldn't even buy a space where they worked for 15, 20 or 30 years. And once again I'm going to say, we don't raise the salary, we raise the salary employers. And for the end, we will vote for this law. It's better than nothing, but it really should open a debate today and how to make money in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9732	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9733	I would correct the incorrect allegations of Agent Caine, who mentioned Mr. Polancec, who gave the goal as if he had been trained by Mr. Blažević. Croatia has other trainers, not only Mr Blažević has to coach. But as for goals from government ministers starting with Mr. Jandrokovic, former Minister Kirin and Mr. Polancec at Liburnia Riviera Hotel, we're more used to car goals than goals, so that was one small change.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9734	What was the correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9735	Well, I was going to say that there is a coach, Mr. Bilic, Ivić, etc., not only does Blažević have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9736	There are planets other than Earth too. Five minutes on behalf of the HDZ, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9737	Mr. President, fellow MPs, State Secretary. Looking at the situation in which we are just discussing the Minimum Salary Act, we have had quite a contentious debate, which is also normal since it is a very important law. However, the fact is that regardless of these differences we have heard during the debate, it is unique for all of us that no one is against the fact that this minimum wage law in Croatia needs to be passed. And that's one big success anyway. And I will count quickly all these successes that the Minimum Salary Act regulates and which go in favour of workers in the Republic of Croatia. For the first time in the Republic of Croatia, the pay is regulated by law, meaning that the minimum wage is regulated by law, that is the minimum wage law. For the first time, the minimum wage will be adjusted for the percentage of real GDP growth from 1 June, allowing for the first time the minimum wage share in the average salary in the Republic of Croatia with the target level of growth and minimum wage, meaning the target level that the European Union advocates, which is 50% of the national average. So far, since 1998, that minimum wage share of 35% has fallen to 33.5% today. For the first time, the law provides for and determines the supervision of the payment of minimum wages, introduces sanctions and fines for employers I talked about in my debate between 60 thousand and 500 thousand kuna if you bind yourself to the Law on Minimum Payment and the Law on Violations of the "National Journal" 105 of 2004. For the first time, the minimum wage law will force employers of those industries that are the most difficult on the labour market today, which are textile, wood-processing and leather-based and shoe-based workers in which workers work for a miserable low labour price, and will now force these employers to ensure that they pay the minimum wage levels that will be paid for all other workers in the Republic of Croatia in the course of four years because they are prescribed by law. Unfortunately, to this day, no government has ever imposed such sanctions on those employers who pay poor wages in certain industrial branches. And apparently less important but very important. For the first time in Croatia, social partners have been able to agree on salaries at a bipartite level, which has failed by now to any government and not to tell the third partner that is the government. And once again to take advantage of the occasion, I can see that there is no colleague of the Mrsics. Given that he mentioned a state-owned company, I would ask him to say the public name and name of that company that he is paying workers for 184 hours of work 500 kuna wages because it is very important and would not be convenient. And break more dilemmas. This is not the government's law, this is the law that was in the Economic and Social Council meeting yesterday, all three social partners unanimously supported and held that it is good and significant for Croatia. And that's why I don't think it's necessary to underestimate and constantly try to discuss the economic situation to reduce the importance and importance of the Minimum Payment Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9738	Thank you. I'd like to ask the clubs to gather representatives, because they'd like to put five points on the agenda. All five are European laws. Because in the meantime, working bodies can schedule sessions and we can discuss them. So I'm asking the clubs to gather around. And now, in conclusion, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Mrs Vera Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9739	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. I thank you all for your discussion from last week and today, in connection with this bill. Allow me only in a few sentences to refer to some of which seem to me to be significant moments, i.e. statements here in the debate, and to remove any doubts about the bill itself. Your debate, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, has shown all the complexity of the minimum wage institute and all the controversy that otherwise arises everywhere where this institute is being debated and where this institute is being arranged. Why? Because he is so complex that he has to respond to several tasks, so at least two important tasks. It's about an institute that has a certain socio-existential function and is in some way subject to administration. On the other hand, this is a salary which must meet certain economic criteria, level, level of national productivity achieved. And it must not in any way lead to difficulties and competitive capacity, to make it difficult to adapt to market conditions and to make restructuring very necessary for the burden of restructuring to bear employment. This, if you can track employment and unemployment data, for example, happened in Croatia, in the 1990s when the burden of restructuring, when it suffered employment rather than wages, the wages grew faster than productivity levels. When it comes to the complexity of the institute, then I can remind you of equal standards, and the multilateral standards governed by this institute, such as the Convention on Minimum Payment of the International Labour Organisation or certain comparative solutions within European countries in which something stands in reason, then you will see that this institute is applied in different ways, something was said by Mrs. MP when comparing the regional, for example, level at the lowest, or minimum wage, or its share in average salary. So then we can notice that there are different solutions. Therefore, the minimum wage institute must, when determined, in some ways reflect both the cost of living and regional diversity. This is why it happens that individual solutions go in order, for example, that the minimum wage institute is not equal for all workers in the country, is not one for all regions, individual workers are excluded or individual branches are excluded, or in different ways depends on the elements to be taken into account when it comes to the minimum wage institute. So in this sense there were words of discrimination here, the future draft law on the prohibition of discrimination was compiled to stress here that this proposal for a minimum wage law contains discriminatory elements. So when we talk about discrimination then we need to know that reasonable conditions of distinction, reasonable conditions justified and justified conditions of distinction cannot be discrimination. That's exactly what this is about. Therefore, it is the branches of activities that have particular difficulties on the market, in adaptation. And this is why such a solution is offered in law by believing that in a transitional period which contains the bill that these industries will, with certain support that will certainly be relevant, be able to achieve the minimum wage proposed by this law. I would like to remind myself that a strategy for the textile industry is made, that it is made with social partners, therefore, social partners are, right now, working on the criteria for support, so there is no possibility that every entity in that industry or any other industry, therefore, every entity is directly subsidized must develop criteria for these subsidies, so they will have to work on their own to develop their restructuring plans. Therefore, this law will certainly help these industrial branches, and we believe that in the context of the transition period that this bill leaves, this will be the achieved level of minimum wage as imagined here. There were more questions about, in fact, some doubts as to whether the provision of Article 4. The law is clear enough, the social partners analyzed it yesterday, they think there is no need in particular to go to the amendment regarding this article. Therefore, it is clear that the growth in minimum wage is, therefore, the growth in the share of minimum wages, the rise in the share of minimum wages in average salary. And it's clear that it's about the coefficient that's gained from the one that increases the minimum wage then. On the other hand, if there is no growth, there remains a level found, otherwise it should explicitly, explicitly write in the law, so is the position and the proposing, so is the position and social partners. What seems to me to be kind of missed, although a lot of MPs pointed out, I just want something, a few more sentences let me tell you about social dialogue. Therefore, in the negotiating chapter 19. Social policy and employment, it has been concluded, that the level of social dialogue in Croatia when it comes to tripartite, therefore, national level, is very good, however, the effects of social dialogue on the bipartite level remain on the direct agreement of the social partners. So direct social partners, union associations and employers' associations. This is the first time really that the agreement so bipartite agreement of social partners is converted into norm, and this is a newspaper that I think deserves attention and I don't think deserves some, here let me not think of another word but disqualification that is individual, to individual union leaders or leaders of employers' associations here can be heard especially last week. I think the point here is that for the first time social partners take responsibility and therefore not only are they consulted, they take responsibility for the application of this law. I think that's, that's a special quality, especially in the section of these industries that can't meet the expected level right away. We have made amendments on the bill, but on this Mr. President's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9740	Thank you very much. Final draft minimum wage law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 71. The debate is closed. The review of the amendments submitted is divided into benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. State Secretary Mrs. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9742	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9743	On behalf of the club, Mr. President, we're asking for a hand-to-hand vote on the amendments for speed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9744	Thank you. Let's go, Madam Secretary of State. Legislative Committee, First Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9745	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9746	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Second, representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9747	The government accepts Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9748	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Third, the club of representatives of HSLS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9749	The Government also accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9750	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. Fourth, the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9751	He accepts the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9752	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Fifth, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9753	The government does not accept this amendment. It does not comply with the rules on the state budget and would not be in line with specific rules on State aid.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9754	Thank you. SDP counseling club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9755	In the SDP club, we believe that no group of employees should be discriminated against by minimum wage, and that activities that are labour intensive, such as textiles, leather, shoes, wood industry, which employ the masculine women's labour that are harder to employ, are also activities that significantly participate in exports. We believe that these are also activities that should be helped or supported by the state budget so that they can pay minimum wage, so we ask that the amendments be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9756	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Sixth, MP Zvonimir Mršić. The sixth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9757	The government does not accept this amendment, Mr. President, since it is an illicit distinction towards ownership. Therefore, this would be an unequal position for entrepreneurs and could not be accepted by the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9758	Thank you. There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 7th Amendment of Representatives: Gordan Maras, Mirela Holly, Davor Bernardić and Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9759	The government does not accept this amendment. The level of criminal measures is in line with the social partners. In addition, it is in line with specific rules on violations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9760	Thank you. Representatives? Mr. Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9761	This amendment is related to activities where the employer makes a record profit and if he employs a lot more people to make a record profit and these people are unable to pay the minimum wage we think then the penalty should be bigger and we are looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9762	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Eighth, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9763	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9764	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The ninth amendment, MPs: Gordan Maras, Mirela Holly, Davor Bernardić and Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9765	The Government does not accept this amendment with the same explanation as the amendment under number seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9766	Here you go, Mr Bernardic. [[I can do it!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9767	With the same explanation as the amendment you previously refused us. So, in order not to make it much easier to pay the wages, to pay a much smaller penalty if it is not paid, but if it is paid, and one who determines the penalty to give him a little more space to punish those who really deserve it. And we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9768	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The Legislative Committee, ten.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9769	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-21-0.u9770	It's becoming an integral part. Thank you to the secretary of state. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please quorum first. Please come in. The result? There are 114 MPs present, so we have a quorum to decide. Please, who's in favor of this bill? You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. The result? This law was passed by a majority vote with 118 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and one against. Thank you. The Legislative Committee proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion. The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out the editorial of the text of this law before its publication in the “National Journal”. Please, let's get involved and vote for this conclusion. The result? This conclusion was accepted by the majority of 118 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against. Thank you. We move to: - Final proposal for a law on the validation of instruments for amending and supplementing the Statute of the International Labour Organisation, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. Number 75. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the comments of an emergency procedure when adopting this law. The proposal for an act has been adopted in boxes pursuant to Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Boris Kunst. Here you go. I'd like a notice before that while we're in this issue. Dear MPs and invite representatives for the Day of the Croatian Parliament, Friday 30 May 2008 are located in your premises, in a representative information centre and we ask you to pick them up and inform them of the presence of the Croatian Parliament protocol. There are also invitations delivered by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia to mark the Day of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. For the presence of the Day of Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, accreditations are required to be raised in the Protocol of the Croatian Parliament, room 134. Thank you. Excuse me, Mr. Kunst. Here you go.
