ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8414	Dear Mr. President, MPs and MPs. The Club of the Peasant Party and the Croatian Democratic Communities referred to the procedure of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Holidays, Mentions and Unworkable Days in the Republic of Croatia. It's about two important additions. The first concerns our proposal to establish a celebration of the day of Croatian defenders, which in this proposal would be tied to the day of victory and country's gratitude. We know that August 5th is the day we celebrate the greatest victory in the Homeland War. On that date in 1995, the Croatian army released occupied Knin in the military operation "Storm". In fact, this operation was returned to the Croatian constitutional legal order of the entire occupied territory except for Eastern Slavonia and "Storm" is a key action that led to the end of the Homeland War. The operation freed 10 400 square kilometers or 18.4% of the total area of Croatia. We therefore believe that this day of victory should be the day of all Croatian defenders. The second addition refers to the marking of the memorial held at Bleiburg. The current bill made it possible to do so only on Sunday, which was closest to May 15th. Since we know there are a lot of activities in May related to the church where priests and bishops are busy because of the crisis, but also because of Mayan piety. They proposed, and we agreed that, under this bill, it would be possible to mark a memorial on Bleiburg and Saturday. So the change would be Saturday or Sunday. And we believe that then the ceremony at Bleiburg would be much more solemn, because a much larger number of priests, bishops, as well as believers who want to visit Bleiburg and pay tribute to the victims there. Here, Mr. President, this is the opening on behalf of the proposer, and I am still available for all additional questions and answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8415	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. No, I don't. You don't have to. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. And he's got it. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8416	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The law is clear, very short, but I think, no matter what, he can't just go through. And clearly, as soon as I go out for a pay phone, more or less, you all know what position I'm going to be performing from around here. When, not so long ago, in a newspaper, I read the title that, at the request of Bishop Mass in Bleiburg on Saturday, it was the "New List" voice of Istria, April 29, 2008, I said to myself, so what, say, why wouldn't the Holy Mass be on Saturdays? However, only when the second day I came here to the Assembly, did I notice on the agenda that it was proposed to amend the Law on Holidays and these monuments. So, this law concerns Bleiburg, rather a memorial in Bleiburg. Here, in the assessment of the situation and issues to be settled by this Law, it is said: "How is the ceremony held in Bleiburg at a time when all bishops, parishioners, especially in spring and summer, due to increased obligations are regularly occupied every Sunday in their dioceses and parishes, it is very difficult for them to organise pilgrimages in Bleiburg. The proposed addition of the law would allow the marking mentioned to be maintained on Saturday or Sunday, which is closest to 15 May. A memorial in Bleiburg on Saturday would create an assumption that it would be more solemn in the future than it had ever been, as it would be able to gather many more priests and believers in that term.", finished quote. Now whether this marking will be on Saturdays, Sundays, to me it is less important, is this context in which this law is passed, especially after not so long ago polemics about Jasenovac. And what is interesting also, that the breakthrough from Jasenovac Croatia does not mark as being mentioned and Bleiburg on the other hand was raised to that honor. The truth we must be honest and admit that on our calendar we celebrate Antifascist Fight Day as a memorial to the first uprising squad formed in Sisak 22.6. In 1941 and clearly in our calendar is mentioned as the mention of 25.9. or better said integration of Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, the island of the National Corps. Which is controversial in this argument. So what I'm de facto in front of, I read that this will make it possible, in fact it's not disputed that more bishops, I don't know, these believers, and so on, walk the way of Bleiburg. Here it is suggested that many, I literally quote "the bishop and priest will go to Austria or Bleiburg". Okay, I don't mind that, but it's not correct that the bishops and many more priests than one attend the memorial or memorials in Jasenovac on the other. It's just not right. Because every holiday, every holiday, every memorial has its own political message. So are these mentioned but also the presence of the first people whether it's a state, whether it's a church, whether it's some other associations. So their presence at such a holiday marking is clear that it sends a certain message. The message has Bleiburg, the message has Jasenovac. Last year, the archbishop of Zagreb, Mr Bozanic, gave a fair speech at Bleiburg, to be acknowledged. Fair speech. But why, on the other hand, the bishops don't want to come to Jasenovac and the silence on any crime is in some way also a crime. They say on Kaptola that Jasenovac has condemned Cardinal Stepinac. Well, fascism, Nazism has condemned all the popes here since 1945, and yet there is no pope to condemn that period again, as Pope Benedict XVI said a few weeks ago in New York, against God. Or the regime that created those regimes that formed fascism was against God. To be clear, I do not agree to the thesis that the church during World War II was dominantly on the Ustasha side. Just remember the Istrian church. I absolutely reject the the thesis that today's church is the one that rehabilitates the constitution even though those within the church who, for example, hold the Mass of Deputies for Pavelić often glorify the constitution and then send it against God. It can't go anywhere except in Croatia. So I'm holding if someone wants to help the church then there's those who recommend that ours, theirs, our highest Prelates come to Jasenovac. In a message, "Don't go around it." It's not enough that Stepinac said he condemned Jasenovac or what happened in Jasenovac in 1943. All popes condemned fascism, Nazism and every new pope do so over and over again when it comes to Jasenovac in Croatia, although I said Bozanic, Cardinal Bozanic gave an honest speech last year at Bleiburg. Well, finally, even in one Jasenovac, I was killed if I did not cheat on six Catholic priests, although from Slovenia. The Istrian Church was all on the side of the clearly NOB, regardless of whether it was Croatian, Slovenian or Italian priests, and unlike those who in Croatia may not have understood what was going on down there in those Istrian, Rijeka and so on, there was no delusion. On the other hand, I recently read another fine sentence by Fr. Peter Jelic that he loved, he said, would that the bishops had shown the same courage in front of Pavelic as before Tito. So what am I saying? The more the church runs away from Jasenovac, the more it will be called for silence on Jasenovac. The truth after World War II happened Bleiburg, there was a crossroad. He suffered a good part of the innocent, and it should be clearly investigated. All those who were innocent should be rehabilitated, Christianly buried, but the innocent must not be rehabilitated by NDH. And in this direction, I welcome yesterday's agreement between Minister Kosor and her colleagues from Slovenia who have in some way agreed or signed an agreement on the marking of these sites, the sites after World War II on the ground next to us in the Republic of Slovenia. Jasenovac was clearly a system that literally implemented the policy of one extinction, genocide and not saying everything else. One Bleiburg, cross road it was one, I don't know, it was an act of revenge. It's clearly a crime. But for me it is also the last act of a Ustasha policy that has pulled the people out of or out of these areas, and then the criminals against the criminals Pavelic, Artukovic, Luboric fled as they had already fled. For the end I pray the same, and this marking will happen this Saturday, I pray to whoever speaks in front of the Assembly at that meeting that if society is reunited there with the Ustasha flag that condemns it, and that if it does not occur at such a gathering or in such a society. Also, do not forget to stress that the state of Croatia, according to the Preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, was created on anti-fascist fluids. It would be just as correct in my court as Croatia celebrates 15.5, meaning the Day of Bleiburg which, I can't exactly find, is the day of mentioning Croatian, yeah, as it is called the Day of Remembrance of Croatian Victims in the fight for freedom and independence. It means that it celebrates, celebrates Croatia and is dedicated to the Jasenovic victims, and therefore the IDS has proposed an amendment that goes in that direction. It means that Croatia is in the future marking the memory of the Jasenovic victims. I said in the introduction that Croatia has several holidays that we associate with the anti-fascist struggle. That's 22.6. Arise day. It is the 25th of September The Day of Unity of Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, the island in the national Corps or in the queen. But I think it would also be opportunized to introduce that day of memory of the jasenovac victim on the day of the breach from Jasenovac. Maybe that's when the bishops would come to Jasenovac. For the end, I'm really asking you to join us to support the IDS Club amendment. There's no reason when we have a day of memory to express myself like that on Bleiburg, that we don't have a day of memory of the jasenian victims, because this Jasenovac, like I said, was a system that literally implemented an extermination policy. It's there from '41 to '45. between 80 and 90000 people who were killed, which was slaughtered, which was cremated, and I think that if we want to send one civilizational, democratic message to both the nation and the world, it would be supported by the IDS Club amendment as we will vote for this proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8417	Thank you. We've got corrections. First is Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8418	Thank you, Mr. President. Two absolutely guilty, i.e. the wrong two allegations about the religious silence of the Catholic Church when it comes to crime during the NDH, i.e. when it comes to Jasenovac. This is an absolutely incorrect allegation, so a modern man who based on this and on his own sacrifice was declared a saint at the time spoke of a shameful lie at the time, and the murderer there called Croatia's greatest misfortune. So this is the same embarrassing thing, I'd say a shameful allegation, and we're always going back to it, and then it's causing on the other hand the answers that are nonstop to the new generation of what they generate. And on the other hand, how was the church on the Ustasha side? Well, for God's sakes, let's not go any further, so I'd say rudely wrong allegations. The church in World War II was on the side of the creation of the Croatian state, and when it met with such a regime as Ustasha, of course it condemned him. And give it once stop with that fumish, godless, and I'd say inhuman church talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8419	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go. What's the article?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8420	... I'm offended here for something I didn't say at all, or Mr. Bagaric may have misunderstood. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] I literally said that I was paraphrasing myself not to agree to the thesis that the church during World War II was dominantly on the Ustasha side. I probably said dominantly, and I absolutely reject the thesis that today's church is the one that rehabilitates the constitution even though those within the church who hold the mass of the muffler with Pavelic often glorify the uprising, and then it is a message against God. I also know all these messages you're sending me as well as I refer you to a statement by Fr. Peter Jelic. Perhaps you know him who said that he himself would have liked the bishops to show courage in front of Pavelic as much as they showed it after the '45s before Tito.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8421	So it's a speech, or replica in most. We have a correction to the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8422	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct Mr. Cain's incorrect claim that crimes in Jasenovac have been committed and that they remain silent. In fact, there are responsibilities for crimes in Jasenovac, there are convictions and was tried by Artukovic as well as other leaders of the then NDH. In contrast, there is the truth that no one has ever answered for the Bleiburg victims and that today's anti-fascists can shout freely like Fumic and Rade Bulat: “We killed the gang and we have no one to answer to!” The face of justice and justice should be for all equal and for those red and black bloody crimes committed in World War II.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8423	Correction Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8424	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Cain made an incorrect claim, which is that all that was happening in Bleiburg and on the Crossroad that happened at the moment. That's not true. That didn't happen at the mah. It's been happening planned and continuous for years. Therefore, dear colleague Cain, that you don't think that I don't think like you do, neither of you must be appalled by what was done and what Djakic said is absolutely correct. No crime has any color, no red, no black. But it's also true that this wasn't on the map, it was planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8425	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8426	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Holidays, Mentions and Non-Work Days in the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the clubs of the Croatian Peasant Party and the Croatian Democratic Community in the Croatian Parliament by act of 6 May 2008 with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament pass the law by emergency procedure. The first addition refers to Article 1(1) of indent 8 which is marked on August 5th as Victory and Homeland Thanksgiving. The proposed addition of the law would mark the day of the Croatian defenders, who was in the proposal on August 5th of the Day of Victory and Homeland Gratitude. Every Croatian defender regardless of the length of participation in the Homeland War and wherever he was, is part of this great victory for which we are all obliged to show them our deep gratitude. In the club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we hold that this is a new dimension of this great holiday – Victory and Homeland Thanksgiving and the day of the Croatian defenders we propose to mark on the day of the beginning of the biggest victory in the Homeland War. Who has won this victory, and to whom we show gratitude is defined by this very proposal. The second amendment concerns Article 2(2). The law on holidays, memorials and unworkable days that are prescribed on Sunday, which is the closest 15th of May, marks the Day of Remembrance of Croatian victims in the fight for freedom and independence by honoring them. Due to the busyness of bishops and parishioners on Sundays, it is difficult to organise the pilgrimage and memorial of Bleiburg would therefore be able to keep the marking mentioned on Saturdays or Sundays closest to 15 May. We at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community hold that this would create assumptions that pilgrimage and memorialism, that pilgrimage and memorialism would be at the level that the victims deserve. So, more solemn and more numerous and more dignified. Although many today think that crimes should be discussed differently and their victims distinguished, in Croatia, we condemn all crimes, regardless of the time and space they took place in and in. But the crime in Bleiburg is also a major crime. Those who ordered or did so were also aware of the gravity of this crime. Because for 50 years almost never and nowhere has the word Bleiburg been spoken. Evil committed, either as revenge, which is mentioned here today, intent for something, for something, and without a court and after a war, because the great crimes that deserve every conviction. Bleiburska is a tragedy, but everything that followed behind it has also left consequences in the spiritual and cultural tissues of the Croatian people. The least we can do is honorably mark the day of memorial to Croatian victims in the fight for freedom and independence to list the victims and mark the places of mass graves. Therefore, the HDZ Club certainly supports this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8427	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8428	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say at first that the HNS Club will support the proposed changes and additions, but you will allow me to comment on a part of the text given in that assessment of the situation. I think it's important, it's already Mr. Caine mentioned those same two sentences, but I think we need to get back to them and we need to sort things out. So, the memorial is held in Bleiburg at a time when all bishops and parishioners, especially in spring and summer, are regularly busy due to increased commitments. On Saturdays, a memorial in Bleiburg would create assumptions that this celebration would be more solemn than it has ever been before, etc. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you, what does Bleiburg have to do with the believers, with the bishops, with the atheists? That's what all of us care about. I would never have dared to say what it says here indirectly, if those celebrations hadn't been solemn enough because there weren't enough priests and believers. I would never dare say that. And that's where it stands. My colleagues and colleagues, for those who sat on the bench a few months ago, I would like to say that in the middle of last term we had a debate initiated by the Council of Europe, the aim was to condemn communist crimes. I have to say, it was an ugly debate, a debate that turned into a story about partisans, Ustashas, and I don't know what factions. My colleagues and colleagues, the Council of Europe's goal was to follow. It was to rehabilitate the victims of communism. Second, it was intended to rehabilitate the families of those victims still alive. I'll come to that, I'll come. Don't be surprised what I'm saying. And thirdly, what's most important is why this message of mine, to young generations, is to give objective information about that time in order never to repeat that tragedy again. To give young people objective information so that no tragedy can ever happen again. In my view, today here in these benches is missing someone from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. It would be nice to discuss this matter with them, it would be nice to hear how much in history and how much we talk about Bleiburg, about Jasenovac, about Vukovar. It would be interesting to know how many school trips annual visits to Bleiburg, Jasenovac, Vukovar. What are they told there in history class? My colleagues and colleagues, today in Germany and France, the history of World War II is taught in a textbook drawn together by French and German historians. objectively show the situation before, during and after World War II. If the Germans and the French could make this big step, I don't see any colleagues why Croats and Croats couldn't make at least a small step to stop fighting like this. You know? We really need to take a step, it's really one of the obligations of our ministry, really, young people should go to these places in the context of every field trip. That's my deep conviction. But then clearly they have to get objective information, not information on this or that option, but what happened, that never happens again. I wouldn't be too long, but I'm really sorry to mention the church here, too. I'm sorry. If that's the basic motive why we're going to change and supplement the law, then I can't accept it. I can't accept it. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8429	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8430	... Beliburg. [[Part of the session has not been saved.]] It is a law that determines not for the victims of Bleiburg but quotes: "on Croatian victims in independence, in the fight for independence and freedom". So it's not a mention of Bleiburg, so now we're comparing the aforementioned Jasenovac. This is mentioned for all victims who fell in Croatian history for her freedom and for her independence, and is held at Bleiburg. On the other hand, we have Jasenovac which is a symbol of the fight against fascism, which is a symbol of antifascism accepted by all civilised Europe and all of Croatia. And that day, Antifascism Day is marked in this law, June 22nd. Perhaps we could discuss why it is unequal, which is that for the victims who fell in battle for Croatia we have only mentioned what is therefore a lower category, and that we have a holiday for victims of antifascism. That was to be discussed whether this should be evened out. I personally think, and I believe most of you should. Not by this law today, but in the future, because the world has long equalized the victims of two totalitarian regimes of last century fascism and communism. And fellow Doric, it is not true that the Council of Europe declaration is only there to remind us. She says certain sanctions should also be imposed, not legally, because it is more impossible, but those who have caused hundreds and hundreds and millions of victims committed by communism must be so marked in history. So it's not just a reminder of it, it's also a mark of the guilty, not legally because it's impossible, but politically and historically, yes. And thirdly, which is why we wouldn't be doing our church to make as many priests as possible come to Bleiburg and mark the mention of all Croatian victims. The priests also did so in the dark times of communism when no one else dared mark Croatian victims. They did so not only on Bleiburg, but secretly prayed with us in all 500 other sites of all communist victims in Croatia. We did this in the area of the site in neighbouring Slovenia. So why not do so with these priests in the free Croatian state today and why not allow them to come on Saturday to this Bleiburg and mark all Croatian victims. I don't believe anyone who understands this law can stand by that proposal. And finally on behalf of the Proposer. Please support this law because it only improves what we owe, honor the victims of communism, not just Bleiburg. And it's cataract to say that the crime is fascist and communistally different, because it's a communist form of revenge. If he was created out of revenge means he was without a court, without justice, so he seized innocent victims and those over whom revenge should not be carried out like children, old men, women, and others. We therefore believe that this law does not mean that we would encourage such sacracial comparisons but only to correct one small injustice, which is that our priests could not honor in sufficient numbers to pay tribute to the victims in the fight for independence and freedom of the Croatian state. So what I ask you on behalf of the promoter, let us not now politicise this law but correct the operational error that was in it, and leave it to historians, not politicians to finally equalize the victims of fascism and victims of communism. And in the end, I still have to mention my colleague Zoric. Absolute support that history is now marked in Jasenovac, Bleiburg and Vukovar by some act of the resolution ministry, and should be evened out. Unlike Bleiburg and Vukovar, there is an institution in Jasenovac, an institution that takes care of Jasenovac, and that is good and is financed from the state budget. And within that facility there is an educational centre and this educational centre is visited by children and should be visited in an even greater number. But the same status must be given to both Bleiburg and Vukovar. And in Vukovar should be marked at least one mandatory day by all children of primary and secondary schools, they must see the mention of the mark at Vukovar Hospital, they must see the monument of the hangar in Ovcara, they must see the memorial of a military museum that is being edited right now. Only when we equalize and honor all the victims, all the totalitarian movements, will the first subject be the budget, not the Partisans and the Ustashas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8431	Thank you. Correction Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8432	At first, it's not true that I haven't read the law... As Mr Hebrang said, independence and freedom of Croatia will be marked and mentioned by these victims if this is marked in Bleiburg, I think we will in some way offend those who have been killed in Jasenovac. [[Part of the session has not been saved.]] Finally, why should this not be maintained, such a marking why it should not be maintained in Croatia, for example. in Vukovar, why must this be held then in Austria. No one has any objection to our priests leaving the way of Bleiburg, let them go. But what I am against is that people with Ustasha uniforms go to Bleiburg and keep their speeches before them. ... So look at this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't know if they're going with a star, but look what it looks like on TV. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And finally, we're trying to introduce the mention of the Jasenovac sacrifice, and it's being incorporated into this law so that maybe it'll encourage a part of our Claire to come to Jasenovac in the future, which will help them and us who identify ourselves with that church.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8433	This is outside the framework of correcting an incorrect quote. It's a debate. Let's move on. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8434	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The shortest I could say is that the SDP club supports law-making. I don't think that a simple and such formulation would be complete to express what we, as members of that club, feel at times when discussions about these painful topics of our history are opened. From left to right or right to left, from first to last. I think it would be hard to list us MPs that we don't have on one side and on the other of our members who have passed the crossroads, were also in the partisans, were also in the natives. We listened, it's not true that it wasn't heard, we were listening. It wasn't official history, but we all listen and we all wear who we are at this age, from childhood memories of those times that marked Croatian history. And I really think that here are 18 years from the establishment of an independent Croatia, that after 60 and a few years from II. World War II and this House should cease to be divided into partisans and Ustashas and locals and by similar criteria. And that what Mr. Doric said and supported Mr. Hebrang, that we actually try to give these kids who are no longer children, because they were born in the '90s today, so that we can try to give them an objective historical picture, neither embellished nor cartooned because of their daily political or their needs. The one who passes, and I've had a chance to pass, Auschwitz, who passes other camps from II. The world war, which passes to the final part of our history that we are all directly involved with, Vukovar, but at those moments after reintegration, at more Vukovar today, it must first remember innocent victims who have actually fallen without a court and without judgment. That's all when you get to a certain age, the thought of you being able to find yourself in a game of historical circumstances in a situation where you end up on an unmarked adventure and without any sign of existence, with no evidence or no clue where you're lost, unfortunately we still have a thousand people from Homeland War and something missing. That's the scariest and most tragic. And when we talk about these topics, I think we should go first from that fact that is painful and for those who are not affected, let alone for those who are affected. And I absolutely support that we give, the policy will always have a reason to speak, as the Charter of Europe and other reasons has been said, but to primarily give historians to try to find one measure, which is very difficult for us, we have a lot of Southern temperament, to find a measure of historical image that will not be distorted, which will not be adapted to the daily political needs, without saying, for sure that the next one who comes after us to the Parliament will make decisions on some new holidays, but not really be in a position for every term of this Assembly to be marked with a new holiday. I don't mean this in a bad way, but simply by changing the political structure in power, we might be in a position to change that. I therefore propose that what was not in the report of the Committee today is a question mentioned to the Croatian defenders. Support was given by defense organizations. Our proposal was to determine the date, the proposal of certain people and the units of the Croatian Army that last wartime was to make it 18. 11. The government suggested that it be 5. 8. I'm more inclined to do the same, although I associate with other things, 18. 11th because with Vukovar, I think what we later did in the defense of our country was the greatest incentive when those who thought war would pass them by, that there was nothing but take the rifle and defend the homeland. So let this not be the last topic to discuss the memorials and the days to which it is marked. But first of all, we make sure that innocent victims without a court of law who have fallen into any regime are victims and that through the debate we make sure that we keep their integrity unless those who have executed them have preserved it. Let's not look back on the left or on the right, or on the black or on the red of this debate, but on the debate with dignity, respecting the victims. All I agree with you is that this little explanation is not appropriate. The presence of a priest. I think priests, as colleagues said at that point, would have no more important task for, let me use the Syntagma, the Church in the Croats. When such historical events are then, I will use a little awkward expression, the representation of the church peaks will be present at all these markings and thus show the representatives of the churches that they equally respect all victims, regardless of religious confession, of worlds. I repeat, we will support the bill and thank you for the opportunity to say this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8435	Thank you. Here, so you don't forget later. The Secretariat of the Assembly shall be informed of all MPs that in the Information Centre, Room 145, a programme of organised departure to Bleiburg has been set up for any application for departure. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first female representative, Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8436	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on holidays, memorials and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, and this proposal was proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party and the Croatian Democratic Community. I personally welcome this proposal because it sets a Thanksgiving for the Croatian defenders for their contribution to the creation of the Croatian State, and will be tied to the day of the biggest victory in the defensive Homeland War, which is August 5th. By liberating occupied areas of the Republic of Croatia by the occupation Serb army, the Croatian people were convinced that centuries of aspirations for freedom and the sovereign state had come true. It is for this freedom that our defenders are most worthy, and it is the duty of all of us who live in freedom to preserve the honor and dignity of every Croatian defender. This addition of the law will allow for the victory and gratitude of Croatian defenders. It is also proposed that the addition of the law be made possible more solemnly than it has been mentioned so far to Croatian victims in the fight for freedom and independence that died in the Bleiburg field and on the Crossroad, and it is proposed that the ceremony in Bleiburg be held on Saturday or Sunday, which is the nearest 15th of May, and would allow for the greater arrival of more living families killed in Bleiburg, believers and clergy in order to recall the time in which the greatest tragedy of the Croatian people occurred and would point to the importance of establishing historical truth. I won't argue for long, but in the end, I will conclude that our obligation is to respect the Croatian defenders of the Homeland War, but it is our obligation to bear our memories of the innocent victims of the bloody Bleibur field and our obligation to establish the truth about all the war victims of 1945. I support the addition of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8437	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8438	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I support the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, which the clubs of representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party and the Croatian Democratic Community have proposed to this High House for adoption for the following reasons. Well, we are aware that the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader has restored dignity to Croatian defenders through the fulfillment and fulfillment of all the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and Members of their families. My colleagues and colleagues, I think it's time for the defenders to get their day. And speaking of the proposal, I don't see a better date and holiday in the Republic of Croatia since the day of victory and Homeland Thanksgiving on August 5th, with which I propose to mark the day of defenders. The magnificent military redistributive action of the Storm, this battle of all battles of the Homeland War, is a worthy event with which the victory of Croatian defenders and the thanks and memory of all those who have laid down their lives in the defense of the homeland, gave parts of the body and whose sacrifice and contribution to independence and independence of the democratic Croatian state must never be forgotten. In addition to the amendments to the marking of one of the laws set out in the Republic of Croatia The date of mentioning Croatian victims in the fight for freedom and independence, which is marked by the commemoration of every year in Bleiburg so far on Sunday 15 May, I support that to the satisfaction of all interested amendments and additions of this law with the current Sunday it can be Saturday. The reasons given in the context of the proposal for this law are understandable and acceptable to me. According to the calendar of Sunday church year, the time has increased both bishops and parishioners in their dioceses and mayors, and do we know whether or not we can support that they are largely pilgrims of both the believers and the citizens of Bleiburg I advocate that they are allowed to be marked on Saturdays. I appreciate and agree with the promoters that this will contribute to a greater number of participants in the memorial as well as to a more solemn spirit and tone of this celebration. For these reasons, I support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on holidays, memorials and working days in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8439	Thank you very much. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8440	Thank you very much. Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that it is an extraordinary honor to talk about this final bill on the completion of the Law on Holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, and to support this proposal to be the Day of Victory and Homeland Gratitude as well. Thanks to Croatian defenders, we have freedom of state and today we can speak freely of Bleiburg. A colleague from the SDP said that we've heard about it, that it's not true but I can tell you that it's true that we haven't heard much about Bleiburg. I can tell you that I'm a witness to that too, my father has passed the Crossroad, but he's never talked about it or talked about it in the house. However, I believe that marking the mention of Bleiburg is publicly honoring the Croatian victims of World War II and the pores in memory of the real independence of the Croatian state and the freedom of the Croatian state. From the point of view of Bjelovar-Bilogor County, it is a terrible fact that families of more than 2.5 thousand Croatian martyrs whose last stop of the Crossroad was one of 54 cemeterys in the area of Bjelovar-Bilogor County have never forgiven their loved ones and do not know where their bones are. For fifty years, their names have been muffled and spoken in isolation, and their final resting places have been guessed only. After the removal of the Parliamentary Commission for the Determination and List of War and War Victims of World War II, the Bjelovar-Bilogor County established a Committee for the Determination of Quiet War Victims and their findings testify to historical events. According to citizens who listened to the latest screams of the murdered Bjelovar-Bilogor County on a painful night was one of the prominent stations of the Croatian People's Crossroad in June and July 1945. The trial was conducted without trial, no witnesses, no convictions. The verdict was a bullet without justice. You could have been killed, tortured because you were an insinuate of the ideology back then, and all after the war, it happened. Life is truly a gift from God, and every blow to man is a blow to God. Taking a life is a crime and for every conviction is dear friends but without politics. Who are these people who could have killed innocent women and children? Among the people of Bjelovar-Bilogor County some know them. Belovar's in '45. Years from the end of May to the end of the year was the intersection of the columns of the Crossroad. A special place has the forest Lug located on the edge of the town of Bjelovar as one of the largest postwar lost places in our county. In 1992 in the forest of Lug and Trnovka, ten caves found land remains of 293 Croatian martyrs victims of a series of Yugoslav Bolshevik crimes in '45. A year. In June 2006, a common tomb was completed and a permanent resting place was secured worthy of a man for the victims I had been talking about for years. On 28 June 2006, their remains were placed in that tomb and the mention of the mark was discovered. In Lugo and Trnova, but also the other 55 battlefields killed our people from the entire area of Bjelovar-Bilogor County. The list isn't finished yet. But so far, the total number of victims is 6 thousand 164 and additional 400 incomplete data are being processed. The number of victims mentioned was determined by villages, municipalities and cities with all data on each individual victim. And the cities, an example in Bjelovar where it was happening, the cemetery of St. Andrija, Vojnović, Lug forest, Razbojička forest, Jelinec forest, Razbojčka forest, Jelince forest, Razbojčka forest, Razbojčka stream, Kupinovac forest, Jasik forest, Klokočevac forest, Šaši near Gornji Plavnica, Bezovac forest, Drenovac forest. In Chazma forest Darjevica, forest Kovačina, village Mikleush, forest Potok etc. I don't want to pick it up. Daruvar, town, Catholic cemetery, Gareshica, village of Velika Bršljljanica, village of Velika Prokop, forest Žirovnjak near Gareshnica, Grubisno Polje, village of Dijakovac, village of Donja Rasenica, Mali Dapčevica, village of Mali Zdenci, forest of Zenački gaj and others. Derek, the village of Gornja Gareshnica, the village of Kostanjevac, the village of Krinaja, the village of Podgarič, Đulovac, the village of Good House, Mali Miletec, the forest of Pišnac, the village of... The village of Great Bastaji, the village... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ivanska, forest and village Samarica, forester Doline, Kapela Donji bridge, forester Babin stream, Severi, Štefanje, Velika Grđevac, Velika Pisanica, Great Trinity, Zrinski Topalovac, and so these forests have a large number. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The case in Bjelovar died in the war of 518 people, after the war 471 were killed. Chazma at war 209, and after the war 379 people. Daruvar 206 during the war, after 98. Garret 366 during the war, 233 killed after the war. In rough field 368 during the war, 187 after the war. A total of 1149 people in our county were killed after the war. The total number of victims of cities and municipalities was killed after the war, and 3593 people died in the war. A total of 6164. It's a terrible fact that after the war, it was worse than in the war. The losses in today's area of the town of Bjelovar and Bjelovar-Bilogian County tell us about the tragedy and the accident where the Yugoslav communist criminals killed the naked and helpless mostly young people. 58 sites have been identified so far and in the area of waste cities 31 and in municipalities 27. And finally. Let me quote President Matica Hrvatska, the branch of Bjelovar, Mr. Ivković, who writes: "The painful impression leaves these true data which unfortunately still has more in Croatian forests and the memory of the people than what was written in any book, whether in state documents. What is the exact number of grave pits on certain losins, it will probably never be established.". And finally, dear friends, we go to Bleiburg to bow down to the people we know are there and we don't know they're there. But I ask one question why does truth always have to create hatred?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8441	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8442	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, we have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the holiday law. Of course, at the beginning, I want to say that I will support these changes. It's about two changes, one of which is a little less semi-limized, so I'm going to start with it. So, the day of victory and country gratitude would also be given to Croatian defenders. We know that in the area of the entire Croatian local environments the Day of Croatian Defence is marked on different dates according to the events of the Homeland War. And it will remain in the local environments, in Dubrovnik it is an accidental holiday of saints, St. Nicole, but I support that the day of the Croatian defenders is celebrated from now on on August 5th when the greatest victory occurred. Every Croatian defender is part of a great victory. And it happened just on August 5th with the release of Knin. And so we think that this holiday should also be given this defensive dimension. As far as this other porch is concerned, it's about the memorial. Remarkable means all Croatian victims for freedom and independence. So it's not just about Bleiburg, but it's mostly about Bleiburg. It's all those toponyms that my colleague Caparin mentioned before me. It is all 500 cannons that were happening in Croatia. Well, among other things, I just want to remind you of... And let's not forget that it's happened a lot... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in Croatia, that everything happened after the war. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm not running away from being both Jasenovac and Bleiburg and Ovcara but and... In the same way, we remember them in the same way and make that date the closest Saturday or Sunday in May 15th. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no reason not to mention that it is for practical reasons, not just for church dignitaries and priests to come. It is about all those people, all the citizens of Croatia who want to participate in the celebration, in the celebration. It's just a matter of technical nature. I see, as far as I can tell from the Cuban exposure, all clubs are for that proposal, but of course everyone has their own reasons. I agree with letting historians judge, but it's up to us politicians to fight to be treated equally. And Jasenovac and Bleiburg, and the Sheepman and... And that's why I suggest that pilgrimage be maintained in a manner and memorialized in a way that the victims deserve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, for now, I can't see that there's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8443	Thank you. There's a replica, Mr. Representative of Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8444	Thank you very much. Ma, I'm signing a full debate with my colleague, Shuice, but somehow I have left it in my ear that we have different arguments here in this House, i.e. opinions on why we support this bill's proposal. I don't think we have, at least, listened carefully to all the debaters and what's good is I think we all agreed that the victims were victims and that no matter when, in which way, and why they fell, we had to honor them. So it would be dangerous for us from this, from this assembly, to send a message that we value the victims were the ones on Bleiburg, Jasenovac, in Ovcara. That would be not only political, but morally questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8445	Thank you. Mrs. Shuica's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8446	Just a short response to the replica. I didn’t think that there were any fundamentally different reasons, but in the part I heard from clubs that referred to the church’s presence on the occasion and in this explanation, it was written that, in order to mark the future more solemnly than it had ever been since, in this context, it would be possible to gather many more priests and believers. That's where we differed. We support this and it's part of our argument. That was the difference, not in the sense that we share the victims and that we distinguish the victims, but in the sense of the participants, and we support such an explanation because if you want a great deal, a large part of the priests were also the victim himself, and these are the taxes that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8447	Thank you. At precisely 10 and 38, the time for registration was 10 minutes for the Rules of Procedure. It's Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8448	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, maybe here's just a few words. For me, it is a perfectly normal requirement that on Bleiburg the marking of the days of all, all those dedicated to all those who died there, be transferred on Saturday because long ago, we spoke to Cardinal Kuharic, the late Cardinal Kuharic. He even asked us to move the day of the city on Saturday because it's really Sunday for priests when they have the most mass, when they have to be in their parishes and on the other hand I think the promoters did a great job. As far as here, we keep mentioning the iconography. Iconography one, iconography two. One of them gets in the way of Jasenovac, the other one gets in the way of Kumrovec, for instance. Because crimes were committed both in one and the other variants under one and another sign. So we know who the winner is where, we know who the victims are. The victims shouldn't be shared. And we go back to 1941 all the time. Here in the last four years I've been thinking regularly at least once a year we've all been coming back even though I don't think in most cases we're sharing an opinion, but it's a shame that we're actually going back there because the people don't expect it from us. People expect, our voters still expect us to deal with reality, but to respect history in any case. As for Jasenovac, I must say that I am not surprised at the bishops or the church at all because Mr Fumić privatised the Jasenovic celebration, and I am very sorry, the marking, and I am very sorry that I did not have a letter from ten years ago that Mr Fumić wrote to me to see his hour of history, his vision of history. I think you'd understand. I'll do it, I've got somewhere to look, so I'll copy it and share it a little bit to see what it wants. As far as killings are concerned, I can understand that something happens within an hour at the moss or in a minute at the moss, but what happened was still very, very long and unfortunately after the end of the war. So I don't think a crime can be justified like this, the other one. The day of the Croatian defenders is good for us to tie to victory and I think it will be good for our defenders, that our defenders will accept it, and here I think most of us will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8449	Thank you. We have Mr. Dragutin Lesar's first replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8450	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, I expected someone on behalf of the promoters and representatives from those two clubs to notice that this law is the one we really have a problem with. Namely, there is a provision that is not respected in Croatia and I do not know without a more serious change whether it will be respected and that is the provision of Article 1, paragraph 2, which reads: "In the holidays in the Republic of Croatia is not working." No exceptions to the saying. Article 6 allows the Government, by its decision, to designate state bodies and other public bodies and other legal and natural persons who have to work on holidays. These provisions do not refer to the possibility of special laws being allowed to work on holiday day, but the main problem is that there are no sanctions for non-compliance with this provision that during holidays in the Republic of Croatia do not work. So it would be good if it is not too late for applicants to either introduce criminal provisions or amendments and propose an amendment and Article 1 which will once normally regulate this matter because on holidays in Croatia we probably all witness together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8451	Thank you. Also a replica of Mr. Representative Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8452	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Markovanovic that citizens expect us to say that today we are discussing the price of oil, but I am also holding gas from last night but today, but I think this is an important topic. You see again put in some ideological context marking any Jasenovac, any Bleiburg, anything third I think is inappropriate. I don't think our human relationship, so if you want to be a politician to the location of mass casualties, you shouldn't define anyone's appearance, any kind of speech. Because then we enter the ideological space. I think the victims of the Jasenovite are the victims of the Jasenovac no matter who showed up there or what they were saying. If you want to go to Bleiburg, too. But it seems to me that in this assembly, we ourselves contribute to divisions and misunderstandings, in fact, the whole situation, which is that the victim is the victim. Once we learn that the victim is a victim, that's how we treat these victims and mark the place where they die. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8453	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8454	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd agree with my colleague Lucino if the victim were a victim. But around the victims, it seems to me that we haven't been too apart, here and there. But it's about the perpetrators of all these murders. I think that's where we can talk, because it turns out that some of them were doing it systematically, this, that, and the other one, that's how much they got in a few minutes or a month, so they killed everything they could walk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8455	Next replica, Mr. Representative Krunoslav, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8456	Well, I'd like to make one more appeal than a replica. So the fact is, I went wrong today. I invite you all to stop the final debate about the past. We all agree it's Saturday. All these discussions I heard today have nothing to do with why it should be on Saturday, not Sunday, but we agree it should be Saturday. Let's finally start talking about the future in this House, start talking about what really bothers the citizens. Yesterday I went to the city, and there were huge lines at the gas stations. I don't know why we don't bring this debate here today, since we agree on this on Saturday. Let's stop discussing the past once and turn to the future, what really is making our citizens more and more difficult to live for. They won't have to pay for gas to go to Bleiburg, whether it's Saturday or Sunday.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8457	Replication response. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8458	So we came from Bleiburg on tails. I'd like to ask a colleague to get some information about what it was like when he was a couple. When they were gas stamps, like when it was explained, I don't know what, I guess, with the victim for the state, the formerly clear, right? Fortunately. So we couldn't go to Bleiburg. I personally remember going to a funeral, so I got a huge fine because, well, I had to go that day. Yeah? Ask a little questions about these times of your party from which you have come will explain it nicely to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8459	And Boris Matkovic. Replica. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8460	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. It is really unnecessary and forced to force ideological victories, however, who knows whose account some individuals are causing. Fumic and fumic, we'll look at the same-minded. That's how they show what they did when they had power. Fumic, whose contemporaries used to calculate in the most harsh way with the unspeakable, and there were priests, so we talk about them today and about them, continue to do so today, and that is unnecessary. Forcing failed ideology is embarrassing for the honorable Croatian antifascism. By the way, we're talking about Jasenovac, Bleiburg, Vukovar, so we're talking about something that really should be evened out, and we're talking about how many excursions go to these cities and so on, and so on. I know there are some places where it's marked and that's how it's supposed to be. But I'm asking one question. Why was there no mention of events since the end of the war in any textbook for more than 50 years, and after the war? I went to school, started going to school in '57. For years, I've never read the name Bleiburg in any textbook, or anything related from Dravorad to Celje. Obviously, something was part of a totalitarian system, but still, whatever it is I'm going back to the beginning, it's unnecessary to force some ideological division around something where we need to be unique.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8461	Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8462	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Regarding this amendment and the addition of the Law on Holidays, memorials and non-working days in the Republic of Croatia, not wanting to go back to the past, do they again, given that this may be the media, and that individual representatives also behave as Bleiburg's law. I believe that all of us together should no longer return to the past, but simply together condemn all the crimes committed on Bleiburg, which were made in Jasenovac and which were made even during the Homeland War, when the Croatian State was created. Unfortunately, some and some decisions of the Hague court are being released, e.g. A Sljivancan to roast brandy in Serbia, while some of our generals are still in The Hague waiting for a verdict. About Bleiburg himself, I may have the right to talk a little bit more about it, since my two grandfathers, one of them was lying on Bleiburg, not in the Partizan uniform, the other came back. So these relationships that represent what ideologies, I don't think they stand at the moment when the holiday law is passed. I think we should go back to the future and we should see how tomorrow Croatian citizens will live, how they will live in 10 days, and leave history to historians and learn exactly in history that everything that happened before that would never happen. However, here in the very explanation stands one thesis that Bleiburg is the central one, the central one of Croatia's "Oltar Homeland". In view of what the promoters have written, the day is marked by mentioning Croatian victims in the fight for freedom and independence by honoring them. Many truly believed then in that time of '41. By '45. to fight for freedom and independence. Some were on the side of antifascism, some were in domobran uniforms as regular Croatian armies, and some were in Ustasha uniforms. Among them were citizens of other nationalities who also fought for freedom and independence of the Croatian state. In a sentence like this, there is indeed a complete equation, and I think that there is a need to pay particular attention to others in any case. Regarding Saturday or Sunday, indeed, there were many victims of the communist regime among priests, and in any case one of the loudest who opposed the regime was Cardinal Stepinac. But I believe that this item, the nearest 15th of May, cannot stand anyway because Sunday or Saturday before that 15th of May, there is a crisis in Catholic churches. As one of the most important sacraments, then, in any case, it should change that. However, here I have one amendment that is related to, not to Bleiburg anymore, and in any case I agree with my colleague Cain that those victims in Jasenovac deserve the mention, as well as all these victims in the Homeland War. Is it Homeland Thanksgiving or individual, if you want to highlight also the biggest sites of casualties such as Vukovar, Kostanica, Dubica etc.? About the 2 biggest Catholic holidays in Croatia, I am sorry that I have been sending the amendment for 2 years, and even as mayor that no one here has seen that Easter in Croatia is not a holiday. Is he Sundays and every time he is on Sundays, but here in this very Law on holidays that was passed in 2002, and in all these before that. So it doesn't matter whether someone was sitting on the left or right and whether he thought left or right, Easter in Croatia is not a holiday. So I would support you to support, in addition to this part, my amendment where Article 1(1), etc. would take place. changed Easter Monday, the second day of Easter changed Easter and Easter Monday. That is how the Easter in Croatia would be put into holidays in the Republic of Croatia. The previous Law on the Work of Trade on the Small, Large and That Rearing Regulations has many worked. Not only at the time of the tourist season as proposed here in that upcoming law, but many worked on Easter, because the legislator probably didn't think it was working on Sundays. So, from '90 to '91. Also, about December 25th and December 26th. It's Christmas holidays. I believe that Christmas should be held on December 25th, also one of the largest Catholic and Croatian holidays, and December 26th, so instead of these words Christmas holidays should stand on December 26th. So, December 25th Christmas, the new indent of December 26th on the first day of Christmas St. Stephen. And this is based on this, this indent would be based and consistent with the Treaty with the Holy Table and the Republic of Croatia on legal issues. Here, I thank you and ask you to support this amendment of mine which will truly return Easter as one of the greatest Catholic holidays and mark it as a holiday in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8463	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Miroslav Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8464	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I didn't mean to answer this topic because I avoid most of the things shared by Croatian citizens and Croatian peoples. But prompted by the debate of the esteemed colleague Vinkovic, I would like to say only three things, which is that today in the assembly it has been heard several times that it should not be returned to history. I think we should go back to history. Finally, “the history is a teacher of life, ” and it is because of some things that are not resolved. We are talking about this history today in the assembly the way we talk. On the other hand, “the altar of the Homeland” was also mentioned, and I will not be quoted as saying, as counterpart Vinkovic said,“Bleiburg will be that altar of the Homeland.” “Oltar Domina” exists as a local, topogravic place here near the city of Zagreb. But some decisions are no longer the place to be and how it was imagined when it comes to the “oltar of the Homeland” and about giving pitets to all Croatian victims, and I think that the Parliament is exactly the place where a quality debate should be held in order to create legal assumptions, that finally the people who are in charge of it, who are sort of revising not only this far away, but also our closer history, so let's see where they are and what happened to Croatian heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8465	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8466	This is exactly what I said, what my esteemed colleague Skoro just said. In history, we don't have to go back. History should be left to historians, and from history I think we can learn a lot and history should not be forgotten. But this part, therefore, of this law, of the holiday law, where, for example, a Easter isn't marked as a holiday. I don't think this debate about the Partisans, the Ustashas, the natives at the end of the line is appropriate. And I condemned all the victims, not the victims, but the crimes committed in Bleiburg, the crimes committed on the Crossroad, and it wasn't just until May 15th or 15th. That's what happened over the years during that ODZA, UDBA, etc. And about which party it came out of, I would also leave it to citizens and historians.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8467	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would have to start this presentation on this subject because it's only so correct with my colleague Caine's apology, because I checked it out and I saw that you really didn't tell your colleague Cain the way I quoted it. So you said you understood that you did not agree to the thesis that the Church during World War II was a dominant Ustasha, etc., and I corrected that assumption. Therefore, I apologize for that false claim of mine, that is, the correction of what you did not say. But that's one thing that I'm from, and so are you, and we can all study here together. It's actually one proof that we actually live in a stereotype, or some kind of paradigm, prejudice. So, just when colleague Cain comes out for a pay phone and he starts talking about this issue, then I expect some sort of debate from this guy, and then I'm correcting what he didn't say. However, of course I stay with what I've corrected and what my colleague Cain said, and what I needed to correct, which is that the silence about any crime is also a crime in some way. And then you went back to church. When it comes to the church, give it one way you, who do not experience it, if there are such people among us amongst us members of the Church, realize that people who experience members of the Church are having an attack on themselves. Because as an institution, I don't feel like you. I truly experience the Church in a way that every man here who is a believer or trying to be a believer is in his own way the Church. Because since the Church does not formally sit here, however, there are people who try to be more or less believers, then in their name it is also necessary to say the answer to that thesis. So when you said how the Church about this silence, and even after the Stepinec who repeated I told about Jasenovac what, for God's sake, I think and what all people think and what no one has the right to think differently if he thinks, then he's sick or he's uninformed or he's bad. So that Jasenovac is one embarrassing lie and that the murderers in Jasenovac are Croatia's biggest accident. So I don't want to change that attitude at all, and I'm staying with him and I'm signing it. On the other hand, let's face it, but it's not about being a seed of discord, it's about being a seed of reconciliation. So, the arm of reconciliation, not the hand that shares, that the Croatian Bishopial Conference on May 1, 95 for the end of World War II, so in terms of marking literally stated the following, but I'm not going to quote everything now because there's really a lot of it. However, the right to life and dignity of every person is before God’s protection, so we owe each innocent sacrifice equal respect. The fundamental equality in the dignity of all humans stems from the very nature of man created in the image and opportunity of God. Individual and personal, mass liquidations without any court or evidence of guilt are always serious crimes in front of God and people everywhere. Therefore, at the holy altar, watch out, we will mention the victims of the Croatian people and the Catholic Church. We will mention the victims of Serbian nationality and the Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia. We will mention the victims of Jews, Roma and all of us killed in World War II only because other nations, others... belongings and other political beliefs. [[You don't understand.]] And I don't know what more bishops should say down there for saying this. Now if you think that they should say it again at any moment and every occasion, then I assure you that they say it. Those who regularly go to church or more regularly, they hear it more often. Those who don't go, of course they can't hear it. I have rarely been to Mass especially on any holiday that the priests have not made it clear what I'm talking about. So let us not drive people away and make people over and over again put them to blame for not doing something you think they should do. Well, I don't think at all that you've offended in any way I don't know the victims of Bleiburg or I don't know what, that you don't know every time I don't know, that you've shown this and that and this attitude. On the other hand, when you spoke on this subject, then you mentioned among other things the thesis, you said let's remember the Istrian church. The Istrian Church does not exist, there is a Catholic Church, and it is precisely because he did not want to single out the church as a special Croatian, Istrian, Dalmatian, I do not know which, Stepinac suffered and endured what he suffered and what he suffered. I agree entirely with the performance of my colleague, because this is a debate. So if it's a debate then of course I'll say what I think and I've already told you about this law. So I support him personally, and I think he's very clear, perfectly reasonable and completely acceptable and there's no room for opposition on either side. And of course, since I repeat it because this is a debate, then we must also look back at the discussions of other colleagues who spoke before me. On behalf of the SDP, a colleague named Hanzek Ivan spoke. I sign his every word and I think it's a big deal that more and more to say, these issues in the Croatian Parliament are becoming normal and stop being political. So I'm really going to try to finish my speech in that part so that they'll be as little of the nature as we've started this morning, part of it and my guilt. However, counterpart Hanzek, and all others, not everyone but those who opposed this law, said they were unacceptable to mention the bishops there in an explanation. Well, my people are back in context. I think that Bleiburg would never be marked or celebrated if it were allowed in Croatia to celebrate and mark. So why did it go to Bleiburg, because only there could be gathered, boldly. For nothing else. Well, I don't believe that the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from Croatia, I don't know where everything came from, it was just so easy to get up and go to Bleiburg. On the other hand, people who worked abroad at that time on temporary work, only where and then normally with fear, but where they could come and mark it was Bleiburg. And why now, why it's important for this to be Saturday. Well, because priests organize Masses in parishes and people express their desire to go to Bleiburg and leave then it's easier for them to do so on Saturdays. So Mr. President of our club, Andrija Hebrang made it clear that this is the law, that this is the day that marks all the victims. So it's not just the victims of Bleiburg, so we've already got a day to mention antifascism and, of course, we don't rule out the celebration from the marking and all other past Bleiburg. And if I were someone who I don't know, in a position that can propose to the church and the people, I would really suggest in the future, because we have freedom of the Croatian state and because of the Croats from the world, so this law also concerns Croats outside Croatia, is not just Croats in their own way in Croatia. So it would be more appropriate for me personally to mark this day in a certain way, perhaps somewhere closer. Let Bleiburg stand as such, he will always be what he will be and will be a place of gathering especially for our people from Europe. But, of course, I don't know what I'm concerned about personally, and it's easier for me to go and I prefer not to be in, while we're here, and in Vukovar than every time and in Bleiburg, but on the other hand, we can't just because we weren't allowed to, now say it's pointless, though. And final. You have on one side the already mentioned saint already, Stepinca, who was the victim of a communist, so totalitarian regime. On the other side, on the one side. On the other hand, we have Maximilian Kolbe, also a priest who was a victim of fascism, so Nazism. Therefore, when we look at both persons, both of them are church members. One and the other have suffered for their beliefs because of this nation. This one because he was Polish and nothing else. They even called on his German background and told him, if you sign, I don't know you're German, you're going out of this hunger camp where he ended up in a way that, it's a famous thing to report to someone dear in the name of someone. Our saint, Alojzius Stepinac, ended because of his opposition to his time and to Pavelić and later Tito. Thus, he suffered both of them out of conviction for both the church and the people. Therefore, when it comes to the church in Croatia, it has always stood by the people and always by the state and never by the regime. Of course she couldn't predict what the regime would be like. The moment she saw such a Ustasha regime, she certainly gave up on him. So if it was at first and there were some people who were thrilled, they were not thrilled about this regime but were thrilled about the arrival of the Croatian state that had waited for centuries and were not informed about who it was coming with and how it was coming. When they saw it, they gave it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8469	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, is that a replica or an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8470	It'll turn good into a replica. Dear colleague, if you've listened well, the SDP club has backed this bill. He didn't mention in any word either the church, the parishioners, or the bishop. It's quite correct for me whether it's Saturday or Sunday or it's May 15th alone. On the other hand, I would not like this House to prejudge the decision of both the Vatican and the Holy Father of the Pope, the bishop, or Cardinal Alojsia Stepinac, to this moment, has been declared merely a blissful one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8471	And a few replicas. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8472	Thank you very much. I don't know if I understood my colleague, Bagarić, actually, I was present here today to discuss a very interesting debate about, say, politics and church, faith and infidelity or the unbelievers in politics. I would like to remind my colleague Bagarić of one thing, that Croatia is under the Constitution of the lay state, that the Croatian State is separated from the church and I think we are entering a very dangerous space. If in the Croatian Parliament, or in Croatian politics, we begin to share ourselves with the believers and the unbelievers, because you are about to, yes, you took the right to say such things in this House, there are such things, etc. I mean, all of us representatives in the Croatian Parliament are as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. as its citizens, not as believers of this or that religion, and even if you want not as Croats, Serbs, Muslims etc., etc. Because we're actually entering a dangerous space. I could draw the conclusion from your discussion that the unbelievers are treating the victims differently or if you want crimes than the believers do. I think it's a very dangerous thesis. We can simply disagree and agree on and based on political programmes, but I think as people, as citizens, so if you want to and as representatives of Croatian citizens, I think we should be careful when we enter this area of church, religion, infidelity, atheism, theism, we enter a very dangerous space because there are believers in this country and there are those who do not believe. If the situation were to be like this, if all the believers voted for HDZ, then HDZ would have 98%, and let's say because in this country 98% of people say so I think according to the last census. Something smaller, huh? Okay, you're gonna make me right. So, I mean, putting yourself that way is very dangerous and I don't think we're sending a good message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8473	Thank you. Replica reply, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8474	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, of course I disagree with your attitude in assessing my speech on the subject. So, first of all, it's something dangerous, first of all, I don't think it's anything dangerous, which can be dangerous, what are we talking about people of God? Well, we have a disease, so people heal, they fight and they heal. We have, I don't know, life and death, so death isn't too dangerous, because it's kind of a nature, too. How dangerous it can be to say that there are people who say they are or are not believers. So take the political guide of this House, for the love of God, and you will see almost every one of our representatives, where he has spoken to the believer or the faithless. Therefore, I see nothing dangerous or harmless. I didn't think any of them had the exclusive right to this or that. Well, just a little bit. So, I just said that in my own name, when the attack goes organized as it went to church, you understand, so to the church institution. She was sent from someone else's church, but I'm personally experiencing her. Why do I take it personally? Because I feel like a member of that institution the way you feel about a member of the SDP. So, I can't get up and say something against, I don't know, Mr. Milanovic or you together, just a little while, and that you... What the hell, I don't understand what the problem is? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So here's the conclusion, I absolutely disagree with you, and I believe I have a right and I hold that nothing is dangerous. Here, thank you very much. [[You're right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8475	Second replica, Mr. Representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8476	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm not sure that such a thin bill of law, that is, the amendment and the addition of the law, deserved to waste our time in this way and simply transfer something that was on Sunday. About it in this way in front of the Croatian public, we return to something we already have. We have a law on that day and I think it is unnecessary to go so far back into the past and to share and mention in this Parliament and Fumic and Stepinac who, with this law and the bill of law today, at least have no slight connections. But he would also commend the president of the HDZ club, who, of course, read the law, said it was the day of mentioning Croatian victims in the fight for freedom and independence, to mark properly, with dignity, honoring Croatian victims for freedom and state independence. So I believe that now that we can allow it to be more solemn on Saturday than it has ever been, because in that time, there will be much more priests and believers. I am sure that when there are so many, all these Croatian victims of freedom and state independence will also be mentioned, and I believe that there are also many anti-fascists who have been killed or killed both in Jasenovac and in other areas and in the sites of our beautiful country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8477	And the third replica, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8478	Mr. Vice President. Well, it is clear in the debate of Mr. Bagaric that he supports the Law on the Completion of the Law on Holidays, mentioned, working days in the Republic of Croatia, and that Saturday marking the death of Bleiburg is certainly a day that will be more appropriate than before Sunday and that it will indeed be more solemnly marked. Likewise, what has been said to be the Day of the Croatian defenders is also the day of victory. The day of victory of the country's gratitude to be also the Day of Croatian defenders in order to truly honour the Day of Victory of Homeland Gratitude, as well as Croatian defenders, on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. What we see in the amendments is trying to put it to be on the 18th, which is the mention of the victims of Vukovar, is actually not an adequate date and we don't think it's an appropriate date to mark the day of Croatian defenders. It is for the marking of the petticoats to the victims of Vukovar, the piety to the suffering and destruction that took place in Vukovar itself. Therefore, I would also like to stress that in any case it is time to mark the Day of Croatian Defence. But I must return to the debate about the Catholic Church. It is clearly said that the Catholic Church and its role, and slander and defamation at its expense that it was supported and included in the Ustasha regime, actually clearly states that Alojzie Stepinac himself, who was thus declared, was 19 February '43. The year was fenced by the victims, from the clearness in Jasenovac, that he declared it to be the greatest evil and disaster of the Croatian people and that there could be no greater tragedy than Jasenovska. But also Bleiburska, where Milovan Gilas was in '79. He testified that he was honest and that they didn't understand why the British were returning these people, they were mostly peasants. They didn't kill anyone. Their only crime was fear of communism. Those English did something completely wrong when they transferred these people across the border like we did wrong for killing them all. That's what Milovan Gilas testified about, so both victims are heavy and it's for all those who are related, as friends experienced it is actually irreparable. Only one of them has criminals, and he's being punished for a crime, and the other one doesn't. And it is therefore necessary for the Croatian people to live in peace, prosperity and harmony and further progress to punish the criminals who killed in front of the court in Bleiburg.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8479	Reply to the replica representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8480	Mr. Vice President. I completely agree with my colleague Djakic, so that the Day of Defence is bound anyway to Victory Day because the defenders are the ones who brought that victory and are in fact symbolising it in a certain way. And I also think that this link to the victim's memory is perfectly logical that it connects more with the victims of the Jasenovec and with the victims of the Crossroad because they are in fact all victims of innocent people, so in a certain way than those who are and all others who are innocently killed and not meant to be. Therefore, one day of victory and the Day of Defendors, and these days, they can certainly be related to the memorial of the victims that are spoken of here and what is the subject of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8481	And Mr. Representative Damir Kai's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8482	Well, unlike Mr. Denona, who says this debate is a waste of time by mentioning some names, etc. I don't agree with that, but I'm going to have to mention again, let's say, the blessed Stepinec, so that I can even pollemise with Mr. Bagaric. Stepinac, as Mr. Bagaric himself said, said a wonderful sentence about NDH, about Jasenovac there in '43. if I quote this well, "Jasenovac is the greatest evil that has been done to the Croatian people." Poor Stepinac saved Jews as well. I certainly regret that it was not declared righteous among the nations. But I'm also asking myself the next question, why not the days mentioned and the Jasen sacrifice. Why on that relationship of symbols do the distinction between Bleiburg on the one hand and Jasenovac on the other? And this law, if it doesn't recognize the victim of the Jasenovac, makes that unfortunate distinction, and that is the introduction and ideologies, and perhaps in the revisionism itself. It's not true, Mr. Bagaric, that I church like you said with good guilt. I am also experiencing it myself, and because I am experiencing it, please come to Jasenovac. It'll help all of us, it'll help these discussions, it'll help you, me, my parents, but it'll help them the most. And therefore, if they are politically wise and self-aware enough, then, regardless of these controversys that were recently conducted in Jasenovac, they will also understand this message, make this "treasure" and bow down to the sacrifice of Jasenovac, as the pope did in New York.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8483	Reply to the replica Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8484	I think we need to get this straight. I also experience this Law of Mention in a certain way in all victims but only one segment is explained why we extend it on Saturday. So, because some people who celebrate that day want it to be on Saturdays. So, but it's not an off-limits memory of the Jasenovac victims. And with Antifascism Day, I think it's done. After all, if the institution Jasenovac, which is an institution, is there, the Institute has some proposal in this sense, I personally support it in advance. Therefore, it is not at all a question. However, we must return to what you have just set up when it comes to the arrival of the bishop there. So please give it to me, so that you may bring in the bishops and guarantee their safety if Fumic performs as he does among other things. ... Wait a minute. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Not security, I didn't mean physical safety. But imagine what Fumic would just say if he saw them there. I can't know what they're thinking or what they're doing. How do you know those people weren't there? Let's say I think they were, that they were going. After all, the priest who is there is a local priest, so he represents that moment to the Church. What would it mean if his presence wasn't the support of the Church? So what does that mean? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8485	Five-minute debate Club of MPs IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8486	Mr. Vice President, Mr. MPs. The clear IDS advocates the introduction of the Day of Remembrance of Jasen's victims. The law is short, as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to say another way to Bleiburg. But this law, what I was talking about earlier, unnecessarily casts salt on the wound precisely these words as the memorial is held in Bleiburg, a time when all bishops and parishioners are particularly in the spring and summer due to increased commitments regularly busy every Sunday in their dioceses and parishes very difficult to organize for them a pilgrimage to Bleiburg and that I am now not counting everything further. This suggests that this holiday is adapted to interests and needs, to the affinities of the churches alone. Here it is literally said the bishops will go to Bleiburg, a large number of priests, believers, etc. But interestingly, in Jasenovac he won't. However, even worse than this argument, Mr Hebrang, the president of the HDZ club, who said that Bleiburg, I quote literally, is "a memory of all victims of independence and freedom". And now it turns out that if someone wants to hear in Jasenovac Mass for their deceased, then what kind of practice in Croatia will they have to go to Bleiburg. I want to tell you again, Bagaroo. I don't agree to the notion that the Church for World War II was dominant on the Ustasha side, I don't. It's enough to see the priests in Istria. I absolutely reject the thesis that today's Church is the Bastion of the Constitution. But I also liked the thesis of Fr. Peter Jelac, whom you may know, who said that he would have liked the bishops and showed to Pavelic the courage they showed before Tito. It's my thesis, and I wish the Church didn't give cause to attack her because that's why she attacks me when we say she thinks of a Pavelic and a similar one. The bishops will eventually do what they will, they are autonomous, mature enough. But it would be good for them to come to Jasenovac like they're going to Beliburg. Because it would certainly help the Church. That's right. Someone will say Tito didn't come to Jasenovac either, so that's where he's called, and Tudjman didn't go to Bleiburg, so he's called for some other reason, too, etc. So much I ask, and that is actually the essence, the representative of the Parliament, who in some way on our behalf, my name, will address this gathering to call on the constitutional position of the Republic of Croatia, which the note bene was founded in... To condemn all those who will come there in Ustasha or with Ustasha marks, though fortunately from year to year, there are fewer and fewer of them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they need a zero tolerance point. It would be fair to base a day of memory on a jasenic sacrifice, but I can see you won't. What is certainly equally necessary is equal to the NOB and Homeland War fighters, because it cannot be for one money in the budget, and for the other not, and clearly the one who committed the crime should be held accountable and understandable that any innocent victim wherever she was killed deserves to be rehabilitated, be mourned and be buried Christianly, or whatever... It clearly belongs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a tragic history, understandable to our people, of all citizens living here on the ground of the Republic of Croatia or living. On the one hand, glorious, glorious, on the other. 63 years have passed since World War II, but peace will not be in our souls until, honestly, as Fr. Peter Jelech did, he speaks of our history. I agree, it's absolutely worth turning to the future, but it shouldn't be turned to one new revisionism, let's just say this kind of reasoning that we heard from the president of the HDZ Club, because it's going to end up fighting us. And all in all, I think there should be historians and churches and politics in all of that. But it will be hard for me to mention all the victims fall for independence and freedom we mark and future only in Austria at Bleiburg. And I, you see, would like to be somewhere else in this country, in one Vukovar, because that city has appointed us, defined us, finally, to defend myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8487	A few corrections. Mr. Representative Miroslav Skoro. First.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8488	I thank Mr. President, so not wanting to pour oil on the fire, just a correction to an incorrect quote, I'm not an expert in... Right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But Mr. Cain said, if someone wants to hear the suffocating mass of someone who's a victim in Jasenovac that can't do it, anyone, every believer, can come and get a mass with a intent. So, that, no problem at all, I recently did it for my parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8489	Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. The second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8490	Thank you very much. Despite Mr. Cain's peaceful debate, he does not wish to light a fire, which I find entirely inappropriate. So he misquoted me, and I didn't say at all what it belonged to and which victim is being marked. I was just quoting the law we want to amend. And he says, "Memory, day 15, the nearest 15th of May is the Day of Remembrance of Croatian Victims for Freedom and Independence.". So, colleague Cain for all Croatian victims. And I did not specify at all which, because for me every victim who fell for Croatia's freedom is equally worthy of both regrets and markings and raising it to the highest level. And June 22nd is the day of the anti-fascist struggle. And we're accepting him, and he's marking part of the victims. They absolutely need to be bowed down, and we must not forget them. And as for the Mass, obviously you don't go to the Church and you're not a believer, because if you did, you would know that there is a parish in Jasenovac, that there is a priest and that anyone can serve Mass in Jasenovac and seek Mass for their dead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8491	And third correction Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8492	Not only did certain historians find and speak honestly about the history itself, but the entire Croatian people did so in 91st year when there was this real reconciliation and children of Partisans and Ustashas etc.. But I say, we're dealing with history all the time, and we're not dealing with what's completely visible in this part of the law. And it's visible, here's what his colleague Hebrang Bleiburg said, becoming the new Croatian altar of the homeland. So, regarding anti-fascists and Anti-fascism Day, I will only remind myself that the first Croatian president was anti-fascism, that the modern Croatian state was created on the basis of anti-fascism, a colleague of Bagaric, was not created on the basis of NDH whose chief picked up gold and fled to Argentina. And that's what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8493	Fourth Amendment, Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8494	I thank Mr. President, and give protection to those of us who have been in HDZ since the beginning to teach us who was our president who never responded to them, and at this moment, they unfortunately just seem to be dead. I'm correcting my colleague, just a little bit, don't provoke me, man. So I'm correcting my colleague Caine who said this is where Mr. Hebrang said some new revisionism. And what new revisionism for God? So we bow down at the same time to all the victims. So I repeat, here and now I repeat on my personal behalf and in my name I don't know, all of whom I represent. Everyone, we worship all victims, so no matter what ideologies. There were fascists, Ustashas, Communists, except for us all these victims are equal. On the other hand, the one who can't walk out of here in front of the Parliament, I don't know if it's any more provocation or what it is to prevent between 20,000 people from coming fours, ignorants or provocators or what, or five of them with Ustasha hats, for God's sake. The other thing is Bleiburg is on the territory of another state, so let the Austrian police sanction them. And I call them this hour to pick them all up because it bothers me too, because then some people abuse it and then they throw everything else and show... And finally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I think we should talk about Milosevic too, but honestly. I don't think it should be celebrated, either by him or Pavelic, but I need my brother's mass to speak for all sinners, and there are others here among us. ... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8495	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8496	So you find an article that Mr. Bagaric hurt his Rules of Procedure personally and me. 'Cause that's the kind of false thing to say Well, colleague Bagaric, you said nice to me, that I like President Tudjman now because he's dead. [[/Intruder: What untrue?]] No, I liked him in the '90s and '91s and '99s. And I respected President Tudjman because he was president of the Croatian state. I'm asking you to apologize. Well, thank you very much. [[I'm sorry.]] And these other things we can, we can discuss anyway. And I urge you once again to understand that this is not only a law, changing Saturday or Sunday, but that with this amendment of mine it is a law which, and here I call you to, to support us and to support us and to support us that Easter becomes a holiday in the Republic of Croatia. ... What's the holiday for? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Have you read the text of the law? It's just Easter Monday. ... Easter isn't listed as a holiday. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Peace!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8497	Okay. Don't lead the polemics of this nature. Correction of the next Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8498	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the inaccuracies of fellow Caine who claimed that all victims can now be properly satisfied so that all the sites could be marked. That's not true. They can't be satisfied with all the victims and with the help of historians and state institutions because they don't apply the rules to all of them. When an investigation of the victims committed in Croatia by the communists begins, the question of who may question the party's crimes is also raised from the top of the state. So the victims can't be calm and calm until the circumstances and crimes they've committed are clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8499	Thank you. We're going to the final review of the proposer. I'd like to give priority to this lady, my colleague, Marijana Petir, on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club and the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives and MPs, of course, respected representatives of clubs, all those who discussed thank you on behalf of the Government for contributing to this debate. I would just like to declare on behalf of the motionor the amendments that have been tabled, and then another colleague Hebrang will be involved in the final address. The amendment was submitted by MP Ante Kotromanovic, who suggests that the Day of Croatian Defence be declared on November 18th. We cannot accept this amendment for the reason that through the debate of all MPs and MPs today could hear that it is supported that Homeland Thanksgiving, Victory Day will also be the Day of Croatian defenders, which is quite logical because every army celebrates its victories. In addition, there is the operation "Storm" which is truly the most famous, the largest operation by the Croatian military and is one of the symbols of the Homeland War. Although this operation has not freed the entire country of "Storm" counts as the end of the war in Croatia and has changed the strategic relationship of forces throughout the region, and what is most important to us that the Croatian army has proved to be a military supremacy force and that there is a defeated concept of a great Serbia on the ground of Croatia. Therefore, as promoters, we remain on our proposal to declare August 5th on the Day of Croatian Defence. The amendment was then submitted by the IDS Representatives' Club and related to April 22nd, the Day of Remembrance of Jasenovic Victims. We cannot accept that amendment. It is, in fact, unnecessary for the reason that the law has established, therefore, a special Law on the memorial area of Jasenovac and amendments and additions made to the Law which are obligations and obligations of the council. And among them is the establishment of the programme's proposal to mention the marking of all the victims in Jasenovac. And it's always the closest Sunday of April 22nd. And since there was a lot of debate here that may have been possible for those who are watching and listening to us from the right path, I would like to point out once again that on May 15th, the current law mentioned the Croatian victims in the fight for freedom and independence and that this refers, as it has already been said several times, to all the victims not only to Bleiburg but also to these amendments and amendments to the laws, we suggest that this marking be possible except for Sunday. So Saturday or Sunday. The amendments were also tabled by the Committee on Legislatives. They are more of a nomotechnical nature and we will accept them as promoters. And the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Vinkovic. Through his debate, you could hear what the amendment refers to. On behalf of the promoter, I can say that we will accept the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8501	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8502	That's what I'm talking about all the time. I don't know how many of us, it's not an explanation, it's a kind of revisionism. If mentioned in the Republic of Croatia Sunday is the closest 15th of May, the day of the mention of Croatian victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8503	Comrade Cain, what are you correcting? Which one of you is correcting the advocates of Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8504	This auditist way performs in Croatian Parliament Then I don't see any reason... [[That's not what she said. She didn't say anything, she didn't say a word about it.]] For what with the holiday law... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8505	You can't fix something... a claim that the representative did not say and mention at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Polymize with No, you can't. It's a polemic. [[I know exactly what I need to fix and what I want to fix. And you just let me. If this country is with this 15 May mentioned/]] It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. [[Employment: The day of adoption of the Resolution on the secession of Međimurje and the Hungarian State]] My colleague Caine, give me... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8506	Then I think there should be a day of mention of the jasenic victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8507	This was a controversy, not a correction of an incorrect assumption. And final review on behalf of also the promoter, Club President Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8508	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the promoters of the HSS and HDZ Club, I would like to thank you for supporting this amendment to the law that has come from all clubs. I think it's quality and maybe once again just to say we've just suggested moving the day of the marking here. Not the day of Bleiburg, as it was said here, but the Day of Victims for Freedom and Independence of Croatia. What is being held in Bleiburg is a set of tragic circumstances over the past decades because for many years we have not been able to mark it anywhere but in Bleiburg and I believe that the proposals of some colleagues who have participated here in the debate will be realized so that we can mark it and mark it in many, many other places. As the Day of Antifascism should be marked in all Croatian places, not only in Jasenovac, which is a symbol of the greatest loss but unfortunately not the only loss during fascism. So we thank that most of the clubs supported it, at least announced support for these changes, and that in this way we will correct these practical shortcomings that the current law had. I also thank the majority of clubs and most individuals for expressing their support and our proposal to mark and propose a day of defenders, which means that we will tie him to the great Day of Victory. It is August 5th, and we will not tie it to defeats, because the Croatian Army is a winner, Croatia is a political one, and the Croatian Army is a military winner and it should be marked and tied to the day of defenders who are the most worthy of these victories. What I think is here on behalf of the promoter that it has been quality today, not only is the debate on the text of the proposal which is in a narrow sense before you, but one consensus that is still being shown in this House is that all the victims deserve to be equalized in respect and marking. Both the victims of fascism and the victims of communism, and today this has been manifested perhaps more than in all our discussions of the previous years for this pay phone and in this place. I especially support and thank my colleague, Hanzek, for also speaking such a thought on behalf of the SDP, which means that in this greatest division that has been among us in history we are getting very close, and that is the way to the only truth. Every innocent victim is equally a victim and equally deserves to be marked and respected because it is the only guarantee that innocent victims will no longer be in the future. And the victim of fascism cannot be greater than the victim of communism, because both victims fell for their vision of Croatia's freedom, which was marked by historical and worldly moments. Both victims have fallen without the right to listen to evidence, without the right to be exposed to such evidence and without the right to trial, and that's why both victims are innocent and I don't think we can just say let you politicians go and give it to historians. Everyone needs to work in marking their victims. We politicians need to organise dates, laws, rules by which they will be marked, and historians should prove the truth by scientific methods. But I repeat, objective historians, not politically marked historians, because then we will return to the beginning, and indeed to this people and the citizens of this country don't need it. Once again, I thank the majority of speakers who supported these laws, and I believe that with these laws we will allow not only as someone said that priests will be able to attend the marking of Croatian victims of freedom and independence in Bleiburg, but also of the believers. For in an explanation, we are not limited to priests only, but we have said, for in that time, many more priests and believers will be able to gather together. And the priests and the believers have the right to mark one and the other sacrifices, depending on whether or not We give them the opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8509	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8510	I will say that by this law only all priests and believers will not be able to attend the celebration of May 15th, but all priests and believers for the first time in Croatia, so since 1990, I have not been able to celebrate Easter as a holiday in the Republic of Croatia, and I think that maybe things have started a little bit since 1990, since probably this House of Representatives or Croatian Parliament will adopt it unanimously. Also, for the first time here I thank everyone with Easter and Christmas will be especially listed as a holiday in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8511	Okay, that was a confirmation of the point of view, not a correction of an incorrect assumption. But who's going to do it all! And Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's a number of corrections to Mr. Hebrang's allegations. First of all, in the first part of his presentation, the representatives' clubs supported these proposals. However, here I am, unfortunately for technical reasons, I have not arrived at this debate. Secondly, in Croatia, we should mark our victories, if that is the case. We're marking Bleiburg. I'm staying with it without further ado. Furthermore, they said, as I agree, that any sacrifice should be appreciated, any sacrifice that has therefore fallen on behalf of, or because of any ideology – whether fascist or communist, it is clear that it should be marked. The bones of Croatian soldiers are scattered from Bleiburg, so not only in Bleiburg, but through Slovenia to, let me say, Macedonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8513	Thank you very much, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8514	Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8515	You weren't at the hearing right now, and now you're using it to conduct a debate. The time has passed, unfortunately, and yet more so. We can't do this anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8516	No, no. No, sir, one more thing. It was, sir...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8517	We can't!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8518	Well, that's a correction to an incorrect assumption. If Mr. Hebrang said that Bleiburg is that place, so where do we mark it, and we're talking about the victims that are from Bleiburg through Dravorad...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8519	Well, that's Polish again. That's your speech. Thank you very much. You should have called in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8520	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8521	Oh, yeah! I'm finishing my dispersal. At 13.00 I would like to invite all MPs and MPs to vote on this amendment and the amendment of the law because it needs to be adopted. It is to be promoted by the President of the Republic, and Saturday is very close. And in "The People's Newspaper" yes, of course. Yeah, well, I'd like all MPs and deputies to be at 13.00 hours to vote on this amendment to the law. I ask all MPs and MPs in the vicinity of the assembly to join the assembly to have a valid quorum to vote on. The proposal is to vote manually. Thank you very much. I'm asking the counter to report on the number of MPs and MPs. 97, so we can. So we're going to the vote. Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on holidays, memorials and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure. The debate is closed. The review of the amendments submitted is divided into benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. On behalf of the promoter, Agent Andrija Hebrang. Amendment 1 to the Legislative Committee. That is what the Proposer has and accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8523	Yes, it's accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8524	Second amendment of Mr. Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8525	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8526	This is accepted by the Proposer and becomes an integral part of the law as before. Third, IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8527	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8528	On behalf of the IDS Club Proposer, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8529	This third amendment of the Club of Representatives of the IDS states that Article 1 adds a new item that reads: "April 22nd – The Day of Remembrance of Jasenovac Victims" I really ask all MPs to be reasonable enough and to accept this amendment, if we want to adopt the NDH crime, if we want to highlight the constitutional principles of the Republic of Croatia on anti-fascism, then we will support this amendment or better put this proposal. If we want to bow down to all the victims killed during II. World War II, then we'll also accept this proposal. Bleiburg can't be raised to honor mentioned, and Jasenovac can't. From the next day or after the adoption of this Act, Bleiburg cannot be the only place in Croatia's suffering and torture, as the president of the HDZ Club pointed out in his debate. Gentlemen, in 2008, we can't mix bones like some people wanted there in the early '90s in Jasenovac, but now not in Jasenovac, but in Bleiburg. Earlier, the lady who defended the amendment said that we had a memorial area of Jasenovac. Clearly, we have a memorial area, but we have no mention of Jasenovska's sacrifice, and on the other hand we have the mention of the Bleiburg area that the Republic of Croatia purchased during the Third-Secretary Authority, but we have also mentioned the victims of Bleiburg, or the Crossway. Okay, I absolutely respect every innocent victim. Every innocent victim deserves to be rehabilitated, to be mourned, to be Christian or not to know how to be buried.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8530	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8531	But let's not make a mistake and I'm really asking you gentlemen to support the proposal or amendment of the club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8532	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 4, MPs...... Okay, when you want to count, it'll add up, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? For 36, against 65, abstention 2. The amendment did not receive the necessary majority of MPs. Ante Kotromanović, that's the Fourth Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8533	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8534	There's no representative. There's a vote to vote on. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5, the Legislative Committee the Proposer has adopted?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8535	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8536	It becomes an integral part of the law. Six, Agent Ante Kotromanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8537	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8538	There's no representative. We should vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the seven MPs of Ante Kotromanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8539	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8540	Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Excuse me, who's in? Excuse me. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 102 for and 3 against, this Final Bill Proposal was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. We are now going to the next item - The report on the work of the Post Office Council for 2007, Proposer: the Post Office Council of the Post Office Council, submitted the report in accordance with Article 28(7) and Article 39(3).9. The mail law. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Proposer representative, Deputy President of the Post Office Council Nedjeljko Djerek will further explain the proposal. Here you go. You won't? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Milivo Schwartz. I'm sorry, the board's got it before. Yeah. Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8542	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 4th session, the Maritime, Transport and Liaison Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Post Office Council for 2007, which was submitted by the Post Office Council. The Committee discussed the report as a home working body and in accordance with Article 89. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, as well as the Committee's work, also had a written opinion from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The opening argument on the Council's activities in 2007 was given by the President of the Council who said that the Council had carried out tasks on the basis of public authority, but also other tasks prescribed by the Post Act. In particular, it pointed out that the Council was working with the European Association for Postal Regulation of the CERP, and that the employees of the Council's professional service participated in the work and working groups of the CERP. It has singled out work on a project which is the support of the Post Office Council under the KARC 2004 programme, which is designed to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Council itself and that the Council has also carried out several controls among all postal and courier service providers. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that a new amendment to the Croatian Parliament was sent to the Croatian Parliament to amend and supplement the Law on Post, which defines a single regulatory body that will be created by the merger of the Post Office Council and the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and will simply resolve its decision-making, market regulation and other changes. Without discussion, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections proposed to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that a report on the work of the Post Office Council was adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8543	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Milivo Skvortz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8544	Dear Vice President, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the work of the Post Office Council for 2007. The report on the work of the Post Office Council for 2007 shows that the most significant transactions concerned the distribution of income and the cost of a public operator. To carry out expert surveillance on the type, scope and quality of postal and courier services provided, market monitoring of these services in the Republic of Croatia, publication of market data in a separate publication and analysis of the general conditions of the public operator and other postal and courier providers. In May of last year, the implementation of a project to support the Post Office Council under the CARC programme with a view to strengthening the institutional capacity of the council as a national regulatory body in this activity. The aim to achieve is to introduce, support and promote sustainable competition in the postal and courier services market, as well as to effectively implement regulations in accordance with European Union legislation and practice. In the section of the work of the Council relating to the issue and withdrawal of universal postal service permits and the receipt of applications for the provision of other courier services in 2007, the Council did not receive any request for the provision of universal postal services. As of 31 December 2008, 15 registered providers were registered in Croatia, all registered for the provision of courier services and 15 of them. 6 The publication also performs postal services on the free market such as transport and delivery of newspapers and magazines or exchange of documents. The basic tasks of the council also include the fixing of the prices of reserved postal services on a proposal from the public operator, taking into account the prices of other postal and couriers and their monitoring. After the Croatian Post Office submitted its proposal to the price list, the Council made a provisional decision approving the existing prices of reserved postal services. Such a solution has been made because it was certainly not possible to set unit prices for each of the services in that area, or whether they correspond to actual costs for each service. The provisional decision could be made given that the prices of reserved postal services have not changed. All other registered postal and courier service providers provided their prices for the Council in 2007. Since the Post Law provides that Croatia as a public operator has the right to settle costs from the state budget when incomes n can cover expenditures, it is positive that the public operator ended up with profits in 2006. So in 2007, he failed to hand over such a request to the council. If it were, then it would probably be a visible fact that even though the law requires it, and the Council has also determined how business activities are separated, Croatia has made a visible effort, as is evident from this report, it still cannot demonstrate accountingly the management of revenues and costs according to individual categories of services. There should also be additional efforts, since in the event of a price change for reserved postal services to which the Council should give its consent, or in the case of asking for budget money to cover losses on such services, there will have to be an accounting calculation for each specific category of all services. In monitoring the development of postal activity, the Council made a good step by making and publishing an analysis of the postal and courier services market in the Republic of Croatia in 2006. The data from the analysis show growth and strengthening of the market for these services and almost all segments of the market. The total number of employees is around 4% higher. Number of services delivered for 8%. Total revenues increased by 9%, and the overall increase and growth were higher and more pronounced among other donors compared to Croatia's mail, resulting in a decrease in the market share of the two segments. The partial opening of this market enables fair competition, and the percentage opening of this process and the time to adapt all participants, especially the public operator. We must be aware that by making the Third Post Directive proposal, the European Commission has entered the final stage of the liberalisation of the postal services market to achieve a single market, to abolish the monopoly of public operators. If in 2010 there will be no year in which this will happen, since other members of the European Union are also calling for caution, obviously from experience, delay and transitional period, it is clear that the full liberalisation of this market is nevertheless inevitable. This requires us to prepare Croatian mail in due time, as well as the Post Office Council as a national regulatory body that monitors and monitors the behaviour of all participants in the postal market. In the end, and only the council, its work in 2007 and this report, it is such that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8545	Thank you. HNS Club, Mr. Honorable Representative Goran beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8546	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to start by saying right away that the Croatian People's Party club will not support this report. There's a whole series of reasons why it's like that. I'll start with those principled ones. First of all, this is an almost prescribed report from previous years, a matrix that is constantly repeated, from which nothing new is seen, but it is also not seen what is very important, nor what the council considers to be key problems that should be addressed. The structure, content, topics are almost prescribed and it seems to me that the very fact that among the tasks that the law has assigned to the council, the two that speak about cooperation with international postal organisations and institutions with regulatory, foreign postal regulatory bodies that are practically outside the so-called so-called. The "cor" of the business council, because they are general, university, here in this report they occupy half the space. So it seems that the council did not work enough, and what was done more or less was reduced to these general things that could be swept under the Syntagma of Cooperation. Furthermore, this council is significantly lacking in the assessment of the situation in the postal and courier services market, an assessment of the quality of postal services, which is extremely important. There is therefore a list of problems facing the Council in communication with service providers, cooperation with bodies, institutions with which it is required to cooperate, and also an assessment of the market capacity in which we welcome 2010 as the target year of liberalisation of the postal services market. Furthermore, data and indicators on the state of the postal and courier services market and the participation of these services in the total gross social product, the combination of service prices as well as other comparative indicators are not up-to-date data for 2007 although the report relates to that particular year. In particular, the proposals for measures to improve the situation in this area of the Council are missing. Now, for real. This report shows a very high dose of slowness and unsatisfaction in the work of the council, e.g. The postal law and the General Terms Regulation were amended and amended in 2005, so three years ago. The law and regulations set certain deadlines, and what does the council do now? Only in February 2007 did the Council send a request to Croatia for mail as the largest operator, a requirement to comply with the general conditions with the amendments to the laws and regulations, and only in January 2008 did it give prior consent to the changes and addition of their general terms and conditions. So the Croatian Post Office has been treated here in a privileged way that one entity has been given three years to break the law, i.e. to ignore it. And what happened to the other, small operators? They were practically driven all over 2006 by the devil of the sinful soul and showed the muscles on them. And how many markets they occupy, and how many Croatian mails. Furthermore, we have received a new Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail. Only in December 2007 did the Council react to the Croatian Post Office by making and publishing instructions for the production of general instructions from donors. As if we were not in the same state, as if it were not the council and the centre of Croatian mail in the same city, as if there were so thousands of light years away, as if there were no modern communication technology and it was impossible to reach those to whom the law primarily applies. Even worse is the situation with respect for Article 25. A postal law by a public operator that meets the conditions for the right to settle the costs of a public operator from the funds of the state budget, which is something the HDZ colleague also said. And now look at that part of the report that mentions this legal obligation, very lapidally ends with the words, "After everything above, it is not possible to determine that the results shown by categories of services correspond to the real state." And who's supposed to determine that? Well, the council is there's a regulatory body that needs to do that kind of surveillance and determine that kind of thing. Furthermore, the council as a regulatory body failed in four years of its existence to provide public operators with its general act the conditions and price of access to its postal network even though this is its legal obligation since 2005. Not only is its legal obligation but it is an essential prerequisite for the liberalisation of the postal market announced for 2010. You remember how we pushed the biggest operator in the telephony activities to do exactly that, and what we did with the sister's former company, because they used to be under the same hat, with the Croatian post office. Furthermore, the Council failed to realise the legal obligation of the universal service provider to carry out, each year, a 15-day measurement of the quality of the transport of postal consignors through an independent body. What did it do? Finally, it accepted the results of the measurement carried out by the public operator itself. What's that? Is it the favor of one monopolistic behavior in the violation of the law, is it fear of the size of Croatian mail, is it inconsistencies in the application of the law? Call it whatever you want. They measure themselves and inform the council, and then the council accepts it for granted. Furthermore, take a look at the service provider's register. One of the biggest service providers and that courier service isn't in the register at all. Who's this about? It's about Overseas Express, a company owned by Austrian mail. They are not in the register at all, and they are one of the dominant players in the courier services market. How is that possible? They're registered for logistics services, not couriers. And the fact that they're dealing with it obviously didn't bother the Council. Furthermore, you have two more operators. They're not even in the register. Weber Escal and ST Media. What do they do? They're in the delivery business of the so-called so-called. unaddressed mail. These are your flyers, your marketing materials. They're not even in the register. From all of this, I am free to claim on behalf of the HNS Club that it is a regulatory body that definitely among all the regulatory bodies that we have the worst, the lowest level of quality provides, in anticipation of meeting its legal obligations. It is a body that has 14 employees by systematization and asks this year to be granted so much, and on the other hand the reality says, the government will abolish them and connect them with the Telecommunications Council. So much for their quality and success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8547	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8548	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Council's most important tasks as an independent regulatory body in 2007 were to carry out expert supervision in respect of the type, scope and quality of the provision of postal and courier services and to analyse the general conditions of the public operator and other postal and courier providers. The work of the Council... Resort Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and the Council submits an annual report to the Croatian Parliament, which we are discussing today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The only provider of universal postal services in the Republic of Croatia, a public operator, is the Croatian Post Office which has the right and obligation to perform all universal postal services throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and as a public operator, must ensure that universal postal services are available under equal conditions as regards a certain quality and affordable price for all service users throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Interestingly, the Council has not yet received a single request, of course except for the Croatian Post Office, for the provision of universal postal services. Everyone is fighting for postal services, of course not reserved for a public operator, but also courier services in large city centres which I understand again from their market position. Although the public operator of Croatia has the right to settle the costs of the state budget when the revenues from reserved and universal postal services of the public operator do not cover the costs of these services, and cannot be settled from the public operator's profits, it is pleased that such a request from the Croatian post office did not arrive in 2006 either, but also in 2007, which is certainly commendable, which means that they do not deal with losses and regardless of these ambiguities regarding the presentation of the annual costs that the Council has informed us about in detail. According to the available data in this Report on all providers of universal, postal, courier services, there are 15 of them, all of them are increased and employees and income increases and profit increases. Understandably, these procedures are higher with other postal and courier providers than with Croatian mail which is a universal service provider and covers the entire Republic of Croatia on equal terms than those in the selected, more profitable environments. However, it should be borne in mind that the European Union has adopted a new postal directive that provides for full liberalisation of the postal services market by the end of 2010 or '12, this is still being agreed. The report shows how the Post Office Council actively cooperates with all necessary institutions in the Republic of Croatia, but also in the European Union as well as with the World Postal Union. This is important in order for everyone together to be more prepared to fully liberalise postal services. And since we have already received a proposal to amend the law that repeals this Post Office Council and connects itself with the Croatian Telecommunications Agency so far, it will make up one new regulatory body. I commend the Council's work so far, because the first steps are always the most difficult and I believe in their future joint successful work, because that depends on our overall success in this part of them building a regulated legal-market state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8549	Thank you. Final review. Vice-President of the Post Office Council, Nedjeljko Derek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8550	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I speak on behalf of the Post Office Council, I am the Vice President of the Council who is absent, currently on his way. Let me look back at the above-mentioned allegations of a respected representative from the Croatian People's Party, and I will begin by saying that many reports, especially the same body, are similar from year to year in style and by some claims of general nature, introductory nature and inference, other than of course data. For me, these are the tasks, i.e. the public powers of this Council and its affairs and tasks, i.e. in part, remain the same in both the previous and the next year, meaning 2006, 2007. The report is written in a compressed administrative language, and I don't think there's any better way to make this report, except, possibly, that we didn't engage in, laxating such a reality. But I must stress the important thought shared by all the members of the Council, that the Post Office Council is a pioneer, a pioneer regulator in postal activity, that this is the first regulator in the postal activity, that it was founded on the initiative of the Council of Europe, that it was established by law. But I'm going to have to defuse Mr. HNS MPs, the Council is gone and there have never been 14 employees, but there have been and there have been, which was in the report nine, December 31, 2007 and the previous year there were eight. The second thing I want to look at is the quality measurement, and indeed it is exactly what Mr. MP pointed out that the public operator of the Croatian Post Office did not find an independent body that would independently measure the quality of the provision of universal postal services but did so in the absence of that body itself. There is nothing left for the Council but to analyse and to believe that it was done impartially simply because the public operator did not act and he states, the operator, that he did not act by finding an independent body simply because such bodies do not exist. There is no specialised body of either that of the public institute, either that of a higher school or an independent company that would be involved in this. Well, I dare say that perhaps the happiest legal solution in the matter has not been chosen. As regards general terms and conditions and general lateness in the formation of general conditions, indeed the public operator and other providers of postal non-universal and useful services should, in principle, be late with such general terms and conditions and the council was eventually forced, although its regulatory function should not be such that it is an instruction but an expected and professionally developed general conditions which the notes are actually general conditions of business and well-known and very publicised texts from insurance companies to banks etc. Therefore, the Council cannot and does not have a lot of instruments in order to in any way force the public operator to update the adoption or nominate on behalf of its general terms and we believe that, indeed, the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Post may, as a public operator and a state-owned company, need to correct or strengthen some of the measures under its jurisdiction in this regard. I will be free to repeat that this council as a regulatory body is the first body in the postal activity in the Republic of Croatia. I ask you to believe that this council has made every way and educational and practical action to confirm its design and existence, that it has succeeded as much as it has succeeded, I dare say that it has not, that this council has not failed in the expectation of hers again, I must repeat the pioneering work. Dear MPs, I welcome you on behalf of the council and ask you to accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8551	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8552	We move to a vote on certain items of the agenda for which the debate is concluded. First, the report on the work of the Post Office Council for 2007. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposal of the parent committee, which reads: "The report on the work of the Post Office Council for 2007. a year." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was accepted with most votes, 109 for abstention 1 and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8553	We're moving on to the next point. - Annual report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and on the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of telecommunications market regulation in the Republic of Croatia for 2007, Proposer – Croatian Telecommunications Agency Croatia submitted a report on the basis of Article 14(1). The Telecommunications Act. The government delivered an opinion. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. The representative of the proposing president of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, Mr Gaspar Gačina, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8554	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Telecommunications Agency conducted a regulation of the telecommunications market during 2007 on the principle of impartiality, non-discrimination. We encouraged market competition with equal conditions for all and we prevented attempts to abuse a dominant position on the market and all because of end-users in terms of improving quality and reducing service prices, as well as to protect users from abuse. In our work, we also made sure that our decisions were stable, to create actually stable conditions and predictable conditions for the operation of the operator. Before the end of the third year of work while we were still in full composition of the five council members, we produced a very short, very summed brochure that sums up the most basic achievements of Croatian regulators. I also hope that this year we have shown achievements more fully, better and more in detail in the Annual Report, and comparatively to the countries of the European Union as regards the trend in the price of services, and then on all our activities and I have chosen for today a brief summary with which I would like to illustrate it. At the end of the reporting period in the immovable network, we had ten operators who gained 18% of the market by the number of users and 11.5% by total income. The penetration was 41% in stagnation because the voice migrated from fixed nets to mobile networks. Service prices dropped from 13 in those three years for small, 22% for medium and 26% for large users. This small, medium and large is measured according to the OECD standard way. If we add to this the fact that the minutes of talks since August 2001 have been held as one headquarters for 23 June, then we can really say that there has been a shift in the public voice market in the fixed network. The Croatian Telecommunications Agency, in line with the best standards of the European Union countries, has made all the necessary decisions that were in the function of liberalisation, only annually. Standard offers for interconnection, operator predetermined service, then number transfer service, access loop detachment service, which means using access infrastructure from a dominant operator at one of the lowest prices in Europe 52.14 kuna. Then, we brought a wholesale price for fast Internet access ADSL and Bistream, then wholesale water prices and conditions of use of wholesale water prices. And finally, we made a decision on the use of space by the dominant operator so-called. The colocation. At the end of the reporting period it's interesting, and it's interesting that out of 332 thousand users how many new operators have acquired, it's just, it's only 78 thousand, it means less about one quarter on their infrastructure entirely. This means that more than three quarters of users, new operators, use the infrastructure of a dominant operator. Especially interesting are data and achievements in mobile networks. In fact, the third operator performed on the market at the end of 2005, and since then, thanks to the increased competition launched by the third operator and accepted by the established operators, prices have fallen. Of 23% for small users, 37% for medium and 40.6% for large users, according to the same method. So I said that the characteristics of this market are also the migration of speech, and that means that the volume of transport has increased. It's interesting that in the last year there was an increased volume of mobile traffic by 38% and total income, and now I'm asking you to excuse me, the one mistake that was being stolen, increased by 7.8%, and in fixed networks only by 1.2%, which was just one replacement in the last column, I apologize for that. The penetration in mobile networks has crossed 100% from which we can conclude that this service has become available at its price and availability, we can say on average to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. At the level of last year, the effects of this cheaping that we were trying to measure as accurately as possible are approximately 180m euros. Now I would like to say something about the development of broadband, i.e. fast Internet access. Unfortunately, late liberalisation especially makes Europe lag behind in the penetration of fast Internet access. At the end of the reporting development, we had 387 thousand users or 8.7% or about 26% of households. Of that, the share of new operators was 12%. The Agency's decisions on the conditions of use of decomposed loops around locations and wholesales of ADSL and BISTRE as complementary ways of working new operators are strengthened market intensification, so we expect a greater penetration of new operators in providing fast access services to the Internet this year. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, part of the surplus revenue over the expenditures of the agency of the past years has also focused on incentives for the development of broadband access in populated areas, areas of special state concern and mountain-mounted areas. Incentive effects will also be visible this year. These processes that led to the situation, as is true in Croatia today, took place faster than in the European Union countries. At the end of last year, and after a successful radio conference in Geneva, we started a project to implement digital television. That start was Istria, and the deadline was that it would be the end of 2009, in 2010, I'm sorry. And the definitive transition, therefore, from analogue to digital television, by shutting down analogue transmitters will therefore be the end of 2010. The further order of the region will, as agreed, be by the logic of the rules of the profession. As regards the protection of users we have not been satisfied with, no matter what the Council of Users has been working with for two years, the Agency has established a professional Section for the Protection of Users and Networks Security. In fact, we are witnessing increasingly different and sophisticated ways of fraud, deception. And although the Consumer Protection Act came into force last August, operators are obliged to establish adequate rights, professional, functional services for users. We, through our call centres that are facing users, see a lot of dissatisfaction, thus educating users about their rights, solving cases, preparing items for the Council of users, means that section. And I think that, since the department began to act in early November last year, it would be a further incentive, introducing order and improving the protection of our users. As far as the transparency of work is concerned, we have introduced practice that, before any, more important decisions we conduct public debates. Participation in conferences, we organised a conference on user protection, a conference on investment in the telecommunications sector, improved our website, and because of the sensitivity and problems new operators have in the fixed network, we introduced a regular meeting, monthly, once a month with new operators in the fixed network. I would like to point out from international activities that we are a member of the European Association of Independent Regulators, we are involved in the work of working groups, project teams, plenary sessions, this is an opportunity to exchange experiences. And this is an opportunity to prepare in advance for the application of the new regulatory framework. As regards pre-accession funds, within the CARDS, 2004, we had two years of support from experts from Europe to raise the Agency's capacity in terms of competence. We also had generous help on a daily basis with individual projects. And also experts from the CARDS project participated in the development of a new Electronic Communications Act. I would particularly like to stress that in the accession negotiations process for the European Union for Chapter 10. The information society and the media without delay have entered the final phase, and to close the same chapter of the Agency's task is to train ourselves to apply a new law on electronic communications that has yet to be passed in this House of Commons. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it's not popular to end up with bad things, allow me, I'll just say a few words about not enough... Investment investments in the Telekom sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, the Republic of Croatia lags behind in investments of $50 per capital compared to the countries of the European Union. Operator with significant market power, HT, and especially new operators... The networks use mostly access network infrastructure,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The cables, transmissions and comms that were built in the '90s in the last century. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As I pointed out at the introduction, the agency seeks to create favourable, predictable and stable operating conditions on our market and thus attract investors. However, due to bureaucratic barriers at local levels last year, there remained an unexpended circus of 500 million kunas of planned and secured investment funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8555	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, President Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8556	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications at the 4th session discussed the annual report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and on the state of play of the principles and objectives of the regulation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia for 2007. The Committee considered the report as a working, home working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and in his work he also held the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The opening statement was given by the President of the Telecommunications Agency Council who met the Committee members with the Agency's activities in 2007, which focused on further development of the telecommunications services market and competition, creating conditions for equal market access for new operators and service providers. Improving the quality of telecommunications services and the diversity of offers of service providers on the market. All in order to create even better conditions for end-users and their needs. The Agency has also focused its exceptional efforts on improving the protection of telecommunications users, establishing its new Consumer Protection Section, which investigates the causes of complaints, forwards these complaints and solves complaints and others. New broadband access operators were created on a wholesale basis, making new operators access to end-users with minimal investment in broadband infrastructure to start work. It is pointed out that the work to address the problem of joint use of the construction of telecommunications infrastructure is under way, as well as to address the existing situation and encourage further development of telecommunications infrastructure. The Government's representative expressed the view that the report reflects the quality of the Agency's work and that the Government is giving full support for further work by the Agency. Without discussion, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose a report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8557	Thank you. The Media Information and Information Committee? Finance? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8558	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Gachina, colleagues and colleagues to discuss this report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, I will begin with what is written in the report itself. In particular, the work of the Telecommunications Agency shall be directed in accordance with Article 5 of the Telecommunications Act on the maintenance and promotion of effective competition, as well as the promotion of access to the market for new service providers, while preventing abuse of the competent position. The Agency should, according to this report, take particular care of ensuring good quality of telecommunications services at an acceptable price and take care of consumer protection. The agency has since its draft fact contributed to the liberalisation of the Republic of Croatia's telecommunications market. Today in Croatia there are many providers of certain telecommunications services in fixed, mobile telephones. Also in data transfer. On this side we can be satisfied because every day the market develops and services become more quality and cheaper. Although we are reading these days in certain media just before this debate on the basis of this report that, how the services are significantly cheap and that is proof of market liberalisation, all the articles I have read in the media are affirmative and are going to make the situation better on that market and that it is progressing day by day. And that citizens and the economy benefit from such liberalisation. It's in one part of the truth. But since I'm a natural practitioner more than this PR I like to look at real life and then when the results are good I want to make sure they could be even better. Why, this market and the work of this agency is particularly important for our citizens and the overall economy in Croatia? The answer is very simple. Because these services include those that are among the rarest to be used absolutely by all citizens of our country and are inevitably affecting their standard, so it doesn't matter whether the liberalisation of market services dropped 20% or 22%, for example. We also need to consider that the total income on this market is around 15 billion kuna and amounts to almost 6% of gross social product. It increased 5.92% compared to the previous year. We must take into account in particular that income has increased even though telecommunications prices have fallen. This means, of course, that new services are being introduced and that citizens need additional services. When we look at market liberalisation or the share of new operators, it is evident that their number is increasing year by year, both in number and in their share of the market. So last year, given the number of users, their share increased to 17% while their share of market revenue increased to 11.53%. Although there is a visible progress each year that share of the strongest operator is still huge and has a crucial impact on the market situation. I mean the price and quality of the service. It is particularly important to note that in the data transfer segment, i.e. the rental of water and networks, this relationship is much smaller or the share of alternative operators is 36% which tells us that in this segment the market that is just developing and the fastest growing situation, the situation is in some way more competitive or more favourable for the development of alternative operators. When we talk about the market for mobile networks by entering a third operator a few years ago, we have achieved a market situation that is in line with the countries of the size of Croatia or the market of the size of Croatia. The number of users in fixed nets falls and is about 40% while mobile networks are constantly growing and penetration is over 100%, which means that more than one, one, one, or one card is used per capita in Croatia. Also every day we have an increasing number of Internet users and it is almost 2 million in the past year with about 400 thousand subscribers on Internet access. We do not need to speak specifically of what it means for the quality of information and education of our citizens as many penetrations on that market as possible, or as counterpart Gacina said: "We are not yet at a satisfactory level, but every year the situation is improving there." What concerns us in part of these services is relatively low density of large-scale connections of 8.7% and places us at the bottom of the scale when we compete with the Member States of the European Union. The Telecommunications Council, based on the Telecommunications and Market Analysis Act, has declared operators with a more significant market power. This is an area of great importance and to remind some of the most important obligations of these operators is to behave in a way by the rules of non-discrimination and transparency. Therefore, operators with a significant market power must provide services to other operators under comparable circumstances. Also, one of the essential principles of this behaviour is the obligation of cost-orientation of prices. Therefore, the price of services by those operators with a demanding market power must be based on the costs incurred in providing that service by calculating and a reasonable rate of return on investments. It is all about several operators in different telecommunications services, of which one operator is dominant and has an impact on several operators owned by it. Why are we saying that? I think that there is plenty of room in that part of the market, or regulation for market control and space for the work of the Telecommunications Council. Today, Croatian citizens still pay too high a price for telecommunications services. That's a fact. Market liberalisation in that part has not yet yielded its full result even though the price of services is decreasing every day and has dropped compared to previous years. Telecommunications services are at the same level of price as in the European Union, and in some segments more than in Europe. I do not have to mention here that today in Croatia wages are lagging behind European and that 27% are European. So our prices are the same or slightly higher, and our wages are at European level, or 27% of European levels. This difference in the cost of operators in Croatia and in Europe means in salaries where the cost of wages is much higher than in Croatia, obviously ends somewhere. The pay gap must also be recorded at the lower price of the services we pay. It is sufficient to see the income ratio and get some sub-opers, so that this provision on cost-orientation of prices falls into the water. I don't know if the agency's taking care of it enough and whether that cost-orientation is being analysed enough. Someone will say that in this segment, anyone can choose how much they spend, or that services do not need to be used if they are too expensive. But we must consider that many of these services are used by Croatian citizens to educate themselves that these services are inevitably affecting the economy, its competitiveness and other things. So they're of public interest, and that's probably why there's this agency. When I talk about the fact that operators with more significant power should provide services to other operators under comparable conditions that they have as their own costs, I believe that the role of the council in that part of the council is too important. Considering they're so-called. DTK built by all Croatian citizens and when it was not already possible to take care of it and when it was not already possible to create a private company such as transmitters and electronic media connections that sell their services to everyone under the same conditions the agencies must allow all operators similar or the same conditions in that part of the cost. It's a really important thing. The market shall not be converted into one operator on the one hand and its wholesaler in the form of other operators on the other hand. The Agency does not have the power to resolve ownership of DTK, but on the other hand it can protect the price of use of that DTK. The significant contribution of market deregulation has also contributed to a variety of other measures which should particularly welcome the possibility of transferring the number and pre-determining operators. I also believe that agencies must make even more efforts to protect consumers from unwanted situations in the telecommunications market. We witness every day that many citizens complain of inappropriately high bills and I believe that a step forward is that operators cannot exclude someone who has pointed out an objection to the level of the account. I have to look back at the end of this presentation that it is of great importance that what is going to happen on that market, or certain steps that we have taken are good. The liberalisation has started and maybe it's not the speed we were hoping for, and maybe the prices haven't dropped as much as they could, but some things have started. Therefore, we must not take 3 steps back and the Telecommunications Agency should also be more actively involved, even in the advisory sense, in the part of the preparation of new legislative proposals that will inevitably mark how this situation will develop on the market. In the preparation of the new Electronic Communications Act, we must be careful not to bring market deregulation to the beginning by introducing some new rules. By introducing some new concepts such as an infrastructure operator, such as the right to pass, such as things that are defined, which are already defined and the right not to own, but the right to go to DTK, we must be careful not to put one or more operators ahead of others who are on the market. Finally, I would say that we support this report, that it has shown that the liberalisation of the telecommunications market in Croatia has started, that prices are decreasing, but that there is still plenty of room in the market for these telecommunications prices to be lower, so that Croatian citizens can use them cheaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8559	Thank you. For the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Miroslav Škoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8560	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Agency. Here's some of the information you've already heard from my predecessors, but I believe the quality of the report is such that it won't be a waste here to hear them again. Therefore, the telecommunications indicators of the Republic of Croatia shown in this annual report were based on official quarterly reports collected on 4 occasions from all operators and service providers throughout last year. In 2007, the Croatian Telecommunications Agency focused its main activities on further development of the market for telecommunications services and competition, creating conditions for equal market access, new operators and service providers, improving the quality of telecommunications services and the diversity of market service providers to create even better conditions for end-users and their needs. The agency's mentioned activities resulted in an increase in the share of new operators in the mobile and fixed network, so that the share of new operators in the immovable network at the end of 2007 was 17.86% while at the same time the third mobile network operator had a market share of 9.34%. Total income from telecommunications and services increased by 5.92% compared to 2006 despite the decline in telecommunications prices. The increase in revenues in mobile networks of 1.89% is lower than the increase in the number of users who were 11.24%. At the same time, income in fixed networks increased by 7.82% despite the stagnation of the number of public voice users, indicating a significant increase in the number of users and traffic in the data transfer segment, and increased interest in broadband services. The share of new operators on the public fixed network market in the Republic of Croatia increased at the end of 2007 in terms of the number of users and was 17.86%, while the total revenue achieved throughout the year also increased by 11.53%. For the sake of comparisons, at the end of 2006, the share of new operators on the public fixed network market in our country was 12.58%, while given the total revenue achieved throughout the year was 5.12%. The effects of the Agency's work are also visible through improved conditions of interconnection between operators and local loops, resulting in changes and further improvements in the standard offers of operators with a significant market power carried out at the request of the Agency, in a way that has enabled new operators to use existing infrastructure and market entry under improved conditions. That the local looping process was successful in 2007 was seen from comparisons with European countries where the local looping process has been going on for 5 years and in which period 4,61% of local loops have been allocated compared to the number of active lines, while only 2.3% of local loops were singled out in one year. A large part of its efforts in 2007 focused on improving the protection of telecommunications users. A new user protection department has been established to investigate the cause of the complaint, educate users, provide and resolve complaints from users, initiate the harmonisation of the general conditions of business, telecommunications service providers with the new Consumer Protection Act and provide technical support to the Council of Telecommunications Services Users. In 2007, the agency also created conditions for new operators for broadband internet access on a wholesale basis, which gave them access to the end-user with minimal investment in broadband infrastructure at the start of work. This resulted in a very rapid growth in the density of end-users of broadband internet access services throughout the period 2007 and their increase by as much as 53.7% compared to 2006. At the same time, the reduced cost of using broadband internet access services. At the end of 2007, 8.7% of the total population in the Republic of Croatia has wide-ranging internet access, representing about 26% of the total number of households. It should be noted that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in its strategy in the area of broadband Internet access, has just set a reduction of the gaps between Croatia and the countries of the European Union with regard to the penetration rate of broadband connections. In early 2005, Croatia was about 9 percentage points behind the EU average, the density was 2.5%, and the desire by the end of 2008 was to be at least 12%. At this rate of growth, it will happen by the end of the year. In view of children as a special category of telecommunications users, for whose protection against all kinds of abuses society shows particular concern and concern, the agency has placed on its websites content with cracks on how parents can take the basic measures to protect their children, internet users. It has also published on its pages an address to which citizens, i.e. all internet users, can report and point to sites containing unwanted and harmful contents for children. In this segment, there is a need for stronger cooperation with other institutions dealing with child protection, but it should be pointed out that the agency is not competent to monitor the content of websites. Representative results have also been achieved in further lowering telecommunications services prices in the immovable and mobile network. Thus, telecommunications services in the immovable network in the last year fell by 1.2% for small users, while for large users there was a decrease of 2.7%, and in the last 3 years there was a decrease in the use of services in a cumulative amount of 13% for small users, 22% for middle users and 26% for large users. The cost of using mobile network services in 2007 fell from 2% to 19.6% compared to 2006, and in the last 3 years there has been a cumulative decrease in prices of using services of 23% for small users, 37 for medium and 40.6% for large users. So as prices of goods and services generally increase in the Republic of Croatia, telecommunications prices are falling or stagnating, which we can thank for further strengthening the liberalisation of the telecommunications market. Last year, the Agency has made it possible to further improve the procedures and conditions for the transmission of numbers and pre-determination of operators. Croatia remains the only Southeast European country that has fully established a portability service in both fixed and mobile networks, not only as a tool for protecting users and increasing service quality, but also as one of the key drivers of reducing retail prices for telecommunications services. An intensive work on planning and ensuring conditions for the release of future digital television networks has been continued. In the Zagreb area, technical conditions have been secured and technical parameters for 2 multiples are issued which for the first time began a test of high quality image imitation and sound, so-called "high quality" in Croatia. HDTV. In 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia encouraged the digitisation process in a way that approved the redistribution of the excess funding of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency from 2006 to support natural persons for the acquisition of digital television reception devices. Therefore, the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, together with the Central State Office for e-Croatia and the Company of Transmissors and Connections Ltd., launched last year in the Istra area the implementation of the project from analog to digital broadcasting with the assignment of state support to citizens for the purchase of devices, is a programme known as "Digital Istria". The Agency's active participation in the accession negotiations process of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union in the section relating to Chapter 10 was continued in 2007. – Information society and without delay, additional criteria and significant remarks. In addition, the Agency has made and adopted a development and operational plan strategy by 2012, with the aim of continuing the development of the electronic communications market, competition, investment and innovation in the electronic communications market, and continuing to raise its own efficiency. Finally, just a few words about Croatia's Telecommunications Agency's revenues, as this report also has its share. Therefore, the revenue achieved by the Croatian Telecommunications Agency in 2007 is 74 million 740 thousand 580,79 kuna, which together with the transfer of the 2006 balance of 48 million 102,000 709,68 kuna is total, so 122 million 843 thousand kuna. In 2007, total expenditures total 46 million kuna, which is only 67% of planned annual expenditure. Therefore, in view of everything said and noteworthy that the report has been unanimously accepted by the parent committees, the HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8561	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8562	Dear Vice President, Director, colleagues and colleagues. What exactly did we want to achieve by the Telecommunications Act and its amendments, and the establishment of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency according to which we are discussing today? We wanted to achieve three of the most important goals for me. It doesn't matter what order. First, liberalize the telecommunications market. Second, lower the service price. And third, increase service quality. And all three targets have been achieved. All three components meet. Of course it doesn't mean that this is the end, I'd say this is a successful start. I'm sure without the independent regulatory body of the agency, this wouldn't be possible, or it wouldn't be possible so quickly and so successfully. With a little bit of a branch like this, we are actually already ready for the European Union. The only serious lack in all of this I see in the still unresolved DTK network, which of course is not the agency's fault, and I would say a lot and I would say a very successful struggle, fighting that problem in view of the irregularity of the legal. The 2007 report tells us that despite the decline in telecommunications prices, the total revenues of these services increased by almost 6% compared to 2006, regardless of the lower prices. There is a marked decline in immovable communication at the expense of mobile communications, which is also understandable in view of technological progress. We can see that new operators, market operators who acquired almost 18% of users, are also stronger in fixed networks. In mobile networks, the situation is even more favourable. The market is highly developed, but I repeat, there is still room for lower prices and higher quality. A joyful and growing number of broadband subscribers in 2007, almost 54% of us, although the most lagging compared to the European Union countries, is seen in this report. Now we're only at 8.7% and the target is 12% by the end of the year, 500 thousand people, the goal is to have access to a broadband internet. The smallest increase in cable distribution is again understandable in terms of cable availability, but these operators also perform with ever lower prices and new services, and of course increased cable availability, cable connection. So I repeat, all the objectives have been achieved and here we are already ready for the European Union as I just said about the Post Office Council, and here, since these two agencies are being joined into a new agency for mail and electronic media. I think both agencies, and this one especially because she had difficult conditions, achieved great results, and I not only support the report but also commend the work done by the Croatian Telecommunications Agency so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8563	Thank you. There should be no further discussion now, although there is a Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. We should vote on this bill in less than 3 minutes. I ask all MPs and MPs in the vicinity of the assembly to join the assembly to have a valid quorum to vote on. The proposal is to vote manually. Thank you very much. We are continuing to discuss this agenda point. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8565	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. By preparing this debate, I thought I'd be quite sharp on the written text of the report, but after listening carefully to Mr Gačina's opening arguments most of these criticisms I'll actually reshape and ask for some information if possible. In fact, Mr Gačina finished his introduction with the conclusion that Croatia lags behind in investing about $50 per capita. I came to that conclusion, too. Especially in fixed telephony, operators use the old infrastructure they bought for cheap money and raid it to the end and do almost nothing to invest in further development. The proof of this is also Croatia's map on page 15, Mr. Gacina, which you obviously have in color, in color, you gave it to us in black and white technique, so it is very difficult to distinguish numbers by county of the number of users with wide-ranging connections. So if it's possible I would kindly ask you if others don't care, I'm really interested in the list of county and number of users or in the color of this map because I'm convinced that it's part of Croatia, on your map it's a white zone, a white hole, I'd say a black hole regarding the fast Internet. There's a lot of people out there who want to. I'll wait until there are conditions for Mr. Gachin to hear the debate because I think and ask questions. So on your map, you marked that part of Croatia, which is the weakest covered by the fast Internet with wide-ranging connections, black holes practically, white holes, however you wish. I've had opportunities as people come to me and say that when they apply for a quick Internet, they say to them, "Here's to collecting at least 60% of subscribers who want a fast Internet in your street, village, neighborhood, quarter or city, and then we're going to invest because it's not worth investing if we don't have a very large number of potential users.". There are eight servers in Croatia, if I've made it clear. And now I'm asking you, Mr. Gachina, if this is the behavior of a server who blackmails consumers to bring them a number of potential users to get a broad explanation of the connection, according to Croatian regulations. Is this the kind of behavior of a server subject to sanctions? Is the Consumer Rights Act being violated by these servers? They have received infrastructure built in the early 1990s in which they invest nothing, or invest only when citizens finance their money what they will do. So, do you know about these cases? I believe you know. Secondly, is this legal behavior and are you competent to sanction such behaviour? Or recommend to the Assembly amending certain rules to avoid such behavior. Because that's about next. I come to the store and I want to buy bread and the merchant tells me it's not worth it to me to get bread, so let me arrange for another 60% of the people from your street to come to my store for bread, and then I'll order bread. What kind of servers do that? Which servers blackmail the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to themselves have to look for signatories, potential users of broadband connections, where are they from? Is that how they behave in their home countries? What do you think? Would you dare do so in your own country and do so? Second, on page 31, there is a list of service providers who have leased telecommunications lines. If you own the data, I would kindly ask you in the next two weeks if you can send me, in the list are Croatian Electricity and Croatian Railways. So they leased 30-year-old telecommunications lines. And... gave consent to that lease. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm interested in what they gave, how much they gave and for what money. If that data can be obtained, I kind of know, let's say for HH how many lines they have. And now I'm interested in how much of it they gave and under what conditions they gave, given that you gave consent, you probably have that information. And since it's about state-owned companies, I think it's very interesting, quite a long term renting what, as much as for how long. And at the end of your debate, the section of the Consumer Protection Act on page 47, you announced that you had set up a consumer protection department within the agency that I commend, I would say, finally, that's good. Because it seems to me that the number of consumers who use services where you regulate, because you have an autonomous right, that the number of information you have with your teamwork and expertise, with the amount and ability to control it, can be far more effective in protecting consumers than all those from associations to advice from the Ministry of Economy, the consumer protection advice we only hear when it is established, after four years, make it difficult for consumers to protect them because daily, but daily we are exposed to behavior that is illegal. For example, I ask you if you know if anyone reported you two days ago, until this week, the entire northwest Croatia couldn't use the Internet service T-Com. That early morning there was a fallout, and that we had a chance to use the Internet on Monday morning, a technical malfunction. And if we hadn't called and pressured, we wouldn't have known what it was about. All right. There's been a malfunction. The servicemen were out in the field repairing it. The technique, my people, can be broken. But when the Internet comes out 24 hours, then that operator, that service provider, has a certain obligation to the service users, because if you don't pay the bill within a day and you're only one day late, they have the right to account for tight interest. What can consumers do for them if a day, two, three do not have a favor? It's a simple malfunction, so what? Do consumers, according to our law, have the right to deny a portion of the bill if they have not received this service? If so, is there a place I can contact your agency or somewhere else? I would ask this answer for the Croatian public and the consumer because I think they are really important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8566	Thank you. We could have another MP before the break. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8567	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, ladies and gentlemen. As a representative of this High House and as an engineer with considerable experience in telecommunications, I say I accept the Croatian Telecommunications Agency's report and assess the positive performance of this agency in the past period in the area of telecommunications market regulation in the Republic of Croatia which are their legal competences. Croatia has successfully implemented the liberalisation of the telecommunications market since recently only monopolitical activities enabled the creation and development of new operators and service providers and thus provided the user with the option of selecting an operator at its own request for the quality of the offer and price of the service. Until now, the Agency has successfully achieved the principles and objectives of regulation defined above all by the Telecommunications Act, preventing abuses of a superior position towards new service providers, thus also against users themselves. The institution of regulators should not ignore further investment in the development of telecommunications infrastructure, i.e. the introduction of new technologies into this area of application that is rapidly developing in the world and which is positively reflected in all aspects of social life, which means that drive does not only come from the high profitability of this economic branch but also as a social obligation to create preconditions for the improvement of all other social activities. The agency has been successful in the past three and a half years since its role as regulators was established, and it can be argued that the liberalisation of the telecommunications market in Croatia has been completed as stated in the European Commission consultants' report. Total income from telecommunications activities is on a steady rise, and despite a significant drop in service prices, which is a positive and desirable paradox because it means increasing the number of users, increasing the frequency and diversity of services. One word of development. In particular, an interesting increase in income of 7.2% in fixed networks is because this number of users stagnates but this increase means an increase in data transmission and an increase in interest in broadband services, especially since the reduction in prices of tariff packages for private users is less than 1% in 2006 and 2007. During 2007, the number of users of public mobile networks increased by 14% compared to 2006 and the basket of use for private users cost 12.9%. The number of Internet users reached nearly 2 million and the number of broadband subscribers increased by 53.7%. The true spread of broadband connections is unbalanced by looking at the counties, so selective incentives would really be a justifiable instrument that would equate development. In particular, it should be commended to the Agency in the field of consumer protection, in cooperation with the Council of Telecommunications Consumers, in accordance with the new Consumer Protection Act. Although the Agency is not responsible for assessing the content of websites at a time when this medium is often mentioned in the "Black Chronicles" as an attractive means of sexual virgins, I positively assess the instructions published by the Agency on its website as a warning and help to parents to protect their children from inappropriate content. And it is also a useful instrument is an address to which citizens can point to such deviating content and I am convinced that the Ombudsman for children but also other institutions can find help for their actions in this data. Chapter 10, the information society in the accession negotiations process is the reason that the Agency is actively involved in this process, and according to previous assessments very successfully. I support the basic direction of the Agency's development strategy and raising the level of its own effectiveness, and I conclude that, apart from accepting this report, I commend the Agency's work and I want it to continue in the same way in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8568	Thank you very much. I suggest we have another debate counsel so that we don't interrupt, continue at 3 o'clock, so we'll continue at 3:15 because we'll be here for a little while. I suggest that Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek and then we're done with this point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8569	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues in view of this proposed move and change of terms and that I am the last one I will be and I will try to be telegraphically brief. Namely, I just want to warn more and correct some incorrect allegations. I didn't want them after Mr. Gachin's opening statement, so I'll say it now. He mentioned that 500 million kunas were not spent because of bureaucratism in local administration and self-government. I have to say that doesn't fit the facts and the truth. First of all, because local administration and self-government have not issued local or construction permits until recently. The other important thing is that more than 50% of the construction of fixed network installations in the Republic of Croatia does not have any construction permits, let alone useful permits, and that is actually one condition that implies that the state and probably the council as an instrument of the state take certain steps because I will trace what my colleague Lesar said to point out to something which is my assessment and assessment. I'm not gonna be a bad prophet. We're gonna be in a bad position or getting worse. It is obvious that the existing operator has divided mobile telephony and fixed telephony into two companies and that in fixed telephony, existing resources are being drawn and exhausted. There's no investment. No maintenance. The state of connections and land and land connections in fixed telephony is criminally catastrophic without protection with the possibility of access to uninterrupted uncontrollable access to all networks and need no secret service but also any semi-literate citizen who, semi-literate in terms of technology and electronics, can be connected to any connection of citizens or institutions and unauthorized data. What is not the Council's task but I think it is necessary to take urgent steps to finally resolve the issue of compensation to cities and municipalities for the passage of underground installations because we all in cities and municipalities, some have signed contracts with an existing operator, some have not because it has been accessed selectively but is also a selective price. We expect that revenue is on this part which significantly affects the standards of building other infrastructure facilities due to the given routes of underground installations of the existing operator. I especially stress and reiterate that over 50% of underground installations planted with optics, with international cables there are no valid building permits without saying that there are no useful permits at all and that we are often in a situation that we have to change our projects and align with their route which did not respect the requirements of local permits at the time. I don't want to go any further. I think we need to seriously discuss what the situation will be in a few years with fixed telephony, given that there is no investment by operators in underground and overseas fixed telephony installations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8570	Thank you very much. You're done. Here you go. [[/Intruder: Can I just answer this last one?]] Mr. Gaspar Gacin, president of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, is final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8571	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Hanzek. I just want to say that this information I got, I got it on the official route, and I don't doubt it. I share your concerns about the state of the infrastructure in the immovable network. I left it for last, and I said it wasn't very popular to end it that way. Indeed, it is true that a dominant operator, an operator with a significant market power of HT and new operators use built-up access infrastructure through it, into a communications transmission that was mainly built in the 1990s. That's true, and I share that concern with you. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I ask you on behalf of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency to support our 2007 Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8572	Thank you very much. Resumption of the session in order not to change to 15.15 as announced by the agenda item Final draft law on the validation of the Protocol on the registers of release and transfer of polluted substances, together with the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation and Decision and Access to Justice and Environmental Affairs. It's an emergency procedure and it's P.Z.E. law. So I'm asking you at 3:15 and now I want everyone to have a good time! Second, the Annual Report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency on the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of the regulation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia for 2007. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, which reads: "The annual report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency on the state and achievement of the principle of the Telecommunication Market Regulation objectives in the Republic of Croatia for 2007. a year." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 109 for and 2 abstentions have accepted this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8575	Short. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Archduke Conventions. As you know, the Republic of Croatia is a party to the Convention on Access to Information and Public Participation on a decision on access to justice in environmental matters, etc. The Archduke Convention of 27 June last year. In order to implement the Protocol, the European Community also adopted in 2006 a Regulation establishing a European Registry for the Release and Transfer of Contaminants and that Regulation established a full register of the release and transfer of pollutants at Community level to apply this Protocol. The new Environmental Protection Act of 2007 created assumptions for the establishment and implementation of this Regulation of the European Parliament and the implementation of this Protocol on the registers of the release and transfer of pollutants under the Archdiocese Convention. As a consequence, the objective of this Protocol Confirmation Act is to strengthen public access to environmental information through registers, i.e. databases on emissions and transfer of pollutants at national level. You know that by the Law on Environmental Protection and the Law on Air Protection of this so far catastra, they become a register. This register is with us for the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, and also according to the European Union and according to this European Register will be run by the Environment Protection Agency. The register is established, it is financed partly from the state budget, and the part will be financed by European Community funds. It is significant that these databases must be publicly available via the Internet, must be free of charge, search according to specific parameters that allow easy use and reference to links to other relevant and similar registers, and the data shown must be standardised and timely, and the protocol requires that the register should cover at least 86 pollutants with a limited number of confidential data, and guarantees public participation in the manufacture and modification of the register. So, following all of this register, which is set up by our Regulation and this Protocol, we create a legal framework for information and public access on all polluting substances that are released and transferred from local to country level to the European Union, and it will serve everyone to monitor the state of the environment and prove progress in reducing pollution and monitoring and adherence to certain international agreements, setting priorities for the assessment of progress by... the policy of the environmental protection programme, and these registers will also benefit industry as it will allow for better quality management of pollutants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have already said that the protocol will not require additional funding because we have already entered into the realisation of this register through the agency, so that we would now have a complete framework around these registers, the database that needs to be created, and also access to the public with all that data. The data will also be in accordance with the register and under the Regulation will be kept in the Agency and will be published on the website of the Environment Protection Agency. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8576	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection, President Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8577	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. At its third session held on 8 May 2008, the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Registers of Release and Transfer of Contaminants with the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 5 May 2008, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. On the basis of its competence as set out in Article 84 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Environment Protection Committee discussed the final draft law in question as a home working body. In his opening statement, the Proposer's representative pointed out that, under the 5th Ministerial Convention "Environment for Europe" in Kiev on 21 May 2003, a Protocol on the Registers of Release and Transfer of Contaminants with the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs, which was signed by the Republic of Croatia on the occasion of the signing of this Protocol. By confirming the protocol, the Republic of Croatia undertakes to establish a mechanism by which every member of the current and future generations of the Republic of Croatia will be able to live in an environment that does not disrupt health and well-being by ensuring the development of a publicly available system of environmental information. The aim of this law is to strengthen public access to environmental information through registers, i.e. databases on emissions and transfer of pollutants at national level. The Register for the release and transfer of polluting substances to the environment prescribed by this Protocol shall contribute to a better quality attitude towards the environment, enabling public access to information on pollutants released and transferred locally, and therefore the obligation of each party to establish such a register. Also, release and transfer registers of pollutants will benefit industry as it will allow for better quality management of these substances. In addition, data contained in the release and transfer registers of pollutants will be available together with data in the field of health, demographics, economy and other types of data in the field of environmental protection. The Protocol also provides that the register must cover at least 86 polluting substances with a limited number of confidential data and guarantees public participation on the occasion of making changes to the register. Finally, the applicant's representative stressed that the obligation to adopt the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Registers of Release and Transfer of Contaminants with the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs in the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union for 2008. The Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Registers of Release and Transfer of Contaminants with the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8578	Thank you. Do the other committees want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8579	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is also necessary to repeat this occasion that environmental protection is a fundamental prerequisite for long-term sustainable development, but it is also nice to say that Croatia has a well-preserved environment in European terms, and the task of our generation is, of course, to ensure the preservation and further improvement of the quality of the environment. So these days when we are intensively harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation, it is necessary to say and mention that we would not be unfair, if not only in this context now, but that our legislation and earlier years have made huge efforts to make this important area a very much more protected environment. Namely, let's mention a few important things. As early as 1997, data on emissions to air and water and sea began in the Republic of Croatia, on waste management and data on pollutants and their activities were collected, and this was all based on that law of 1994 and its implementing rules, the Environmental Emissions Regulations. It is also necessary to mention here the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and perhaps regulations on packaging and on waste tyres and waste oils. Let's say the example works only, that last year some 705,000 gallons of waste oil was collected. She's saying that to herself enough, I think it's very important. Therefore, the Air Protection Act also said from 2004, that by virtue of it, a series of implementing acts, regulations were prescribed and the limit values of air pollutants and critical levels of polluting substances in the air and critical levels of pollutants in the air, and rules prescribed to monitor the quality of air quality and to monitor emissions of pollutants into the air from stationary sources, by introducing an environmental compensation for air pollution by exhaust and smoke gases released by companies and vehicles. All of this is important to mention, but it is a special place to take up certainly the 2007 Environmental Protection Act, in which a significant step has been made to comply with the European Union's legislation in the field of environmental protection, and the process continues with the adoption of implementing rules, so here is an important implementing regulation, a Regulation on environmental pollution register, which ensures the application of this Regulation 166/2006. the European Parliament and the Council on the establishment of a European register of release and transfer of pollutants. We have also discussed in this House a number of important laws on the harmonisation of our law with the legislation of the European Union, it is the Law on Chemicals, the Law on Waste, so the Law on Biocidal Products, then the Law on Long-term Cross-border Cooperation and the Protocol on the Prevention of Acidification, Eutrophication and Ground Zone. And that is certainly the same thing, of course, will further contribute to the conservation of our environment, and what we are now in these circumstances, so of course we are going to go further, I would say here's one law to say, and that is the Law on Confirming the Protocol on the Registers of Release and Transfer of Contaminants with the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs. Of course, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support it, but it is important to mention this very moment, public decision. That's very important. And I would like to say that in the Government Programme 2008 to 2011 one of the main objectives of course is to set environmental protection, and as implementing measures, special attention is given to the procedures for reporting and public participation in environmental impact assessment procedures. It's a very important moment, because the public is now getting very important anyway. In the framework of the 5th Ministerial Conference on Environment for Europe, as said by counterpart Petir, a Protocol on the Registers of Release and Transfer of Contaminants was adopted in Kiev in 2003 with the Convention on Access to Information and Public Participation in the Decision and Access to Justice on the occasion of our Republic of Croatia signed the same Protocol. The signing of the Protocol obliges Croatia to establish a mechanism thanks to which every member of the current and future generations of the Republic of Croatia will be able to live in an environment that does not disrupt health and well-being. And now that they're in charge of this law, which are the main moments for those which Mr. Secretary of State has stated. I would therefore underline firstly to strengthen public access to information in the environment through registers, i.e. databases on emissions and transfer of polluting substances at national level. Secondly, the protocol also stipulates that the register must cover at least 86 polluting substances with a limited number of confidential data and guarantees public participation on the occasion of the production and modification of the register. In addition, data contained in the register of the release and transfer of pollutants will be possible to be used together with data from the field of health, demographics, economy and other types of data. From the field of environmental protection for the purpose of better understanding of the problem, identifying black points, taking preventive and rehabilitation measures and setting priorities in environmental management. So we conclude that it is a very important law which will certainly, in addition to harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation, contribute to achieving a high level of environmental protection as a whole and to achieving a sustainable environment of acceptable development and health protection and, of course, I expect that it will be the same consensus for acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8580	Thank you. On behalf of the CNS, Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8581	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Ten years ago in the Danish city of Archus, the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation, Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs, which our country ratified in 2006. It was mentioned by the Archduke Convention in 2003 that a Protocol signed by our country was adopted in Kiev. So far, the Protocol has been signed by 37 states and ratified by 6, and will enter into force after 16 ratifications. Provisions to ensure the implementation of the Archduke Convention have also been introduced into our new Environmental Protection Act in 2007. One of the implementing rules is also the Environmental Protection Act, which lays down the way data is supplied to the Environment Protection Agency and public access to data on environmental pollution stored in registers via the Agency’s website. Its ratification of states provides free and free access to information on environmental pollution, guarantees public participation in environmental issues, and facilitates access to justice on environmental issues. This is a very important European document that first combines environmental protection with human rights, which was created as a result of negotiations and agreements between government representatives and NGOs, i.e. Civil sector. The right to access information is one of the fundamental human rights that involves obtaining up-to-date, accurate and comparable information obtained by means of means and language to a reasonable citizen of average intelligence. Everyone has the right to seek information on the environment that has been developed or received by public authorities, in particular environmental data, waste management, hazardous substances, industrial and environmental accidents, environmental pollutant emissions, environmental pollution impacts, human health data, environmental pollutants themselves, environmental measures and environmental protection programmes, and other similar data. The interested public shall include natural and legal persons affected by or may be affected by a situation in the environment, as well as NGOs working to promote environmental protection. It is, of course, necessary before this that environmental pollutants are based on the established process of delivering data to the competent authority of the state administration in the county or the City of Zagreb, which processes them and forwards them to the Environmental Protection Agency. A verification of the authenticity, complete and consistency of the data collected and reports shall be carried out by official duty of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. In addition to our public reports are sent to the international body and organisation, because environmental protection is not local or national, it is a global global problem with far-reaching potential consequences for the entire population of our planet. It should not even be mentioned that this is a very wide area of potential dangers, energy, noise, nuclear fuels, radiation, waste and nuclear, emissions and other emissions that require knowledge has a very small population, so public authorities have to make a lot of efforts to look for information in the methods of analysis, measurement procedures, causes. to standardised processes used or used in the collection of data on environmental pollution. Furthermore, public authorities are obliged to notify the public without delay through means of public information on cases of direct danger to their health, material goods and the environment, regardless of whether this danger is caused by human activity or by natural phenomena. Of course, public authorities as well as pollutants are required to notify the public without delay of the excesses of the prescribed emission limit values to the environment immediately after knowledge. There are, of course, cases where the public authority is not to or may not provide the requested information, such as guaranteed confidentiality of the procedure by the basis of a specific regulation, data affecting national defences and the like. Where there are no such reasons, the applicant shall be obliged to obtain information from the environment within the shortest possible time limit and within 30 days at the latest. If the applicant considers that the information provided on the basis of the request is incorrect or complete, it may require its correction or supplementation. Life teaches us that the criteria that led to the denial of the requested information are to be reviewed because it often happens that the denial of the entire text is not necessary because the code of secrecy or confidentiality of the information refers only to one part. This part of the information may be excluded or covered and may allow for insight into the other part of the text. For example, we cannot obtain any information related to military exercises, i.e. The impact of those on the environment, because they have a sign of military secrets. But it doesn't need to be very secret, so for example. Taking care of the waste by the military. In addition to the right to general access to information, the Archduke Convention also lays down the right to public participation in decision-making on environmental issues, individuals and organised groups of people affected or possibly affected by a decision and who are interested in the outcome of that decision. The citizens' participation process must be organised in such a way that there is sufficient time to prepare effective participation by interested actors. So that they are involved at a time when it is still possible to achieve their influence. Examples of such participation are public insights, followed by public debates, e.g. a study on the assessment of environmental impact or the spatial plan of local self-government. The whole procedure in our country is not very simple, and it often promotes the very opposite of this pillar of the Arch of the Archdiocese Convention. encourages the denial of the participation of the interested public in deciding on a project or plan that will greatly affect their lives. Like what? The interested public may participate in some environmental impact assessment procedure for which it is very interested, provided that the notice of public debate is notified on the municipality’s advertising board in whose area the project is planned, and not for example in daily newspapers or to have a public insight into the environmental impact study organised in Zagreb, and it is a project in Lica and so on. The most often termed public participation in decision-making understands the fact that citizens are informed about a project by public authorities. Because, let's say, fierce opposition to a project by citizens living on a gravitating site, if that opposition actually has no impact on the decision whether or not the project will be realised. Which means they weren't involved at all. They have already been informed about the project. So, the public is only given an opportunity to hear them, but they will be explained why her opinion was not taken into account when making a decision on the project. He can go somewhere in solutions and write who he is and where he expressed his opposition, but they haven't stopped the project. All they have left is bitterness and drinking nerve tranquilizers. Finally, the Archduke Convention requires domestic legislation to ensure that any person who considers that its request for information has been disregarded, unfairly rejected, or has been held liable in an inappropriate manner to have access to the evaluation procedure before the court, or to any other independent or unsuitable legal body. The procedure should be quick, cheap or free. However, before such a procedure, all procedures for administrative evaluation of the process which is controversial should be exhausted. In conclusion, the Archduke Convention is a valuable, legal instrument, an instrument for promoting democracy, but given the established practice and problems of our system, we will need time to learn how to use it. It is expected that both inadequacy and inaccuracy and incompleteness of information are expected. It is also expected to identify information with public participation in the decision-making process. But we are also looking at the Croatian Parliament for the public authority's interest and responsibility for implementing this excellent European document. Let us also appeal to their consciousness, for they too are often the interested public who wants to say something, correct or participate in the decision-making process. In the Croatian Parliament, we are also looking for the obligation of additional education of judges on environmental rights on Archusca and other conventions and protocols in the area. Both state and county officials and judges and we, we are all that interested public, who wants a healthy, pleasant and long life in a healthy environment. Someone said it a thousand times, we inherited the land from previous generations, but we borrowed it from generations behind us. And that's why we have an obligation to leave it to future generations if it's not better then at least in the state in which we saw it by our birth. This country project of our relationship with it represents a general social value, and everyone living on this planet has a role and responsibility in it. Bigger than the rest of me in Parliament, state and local officials, judges and teachers who care about the environment business. However, awareness and conscience are not enough only at work, in parliament, offices, ministries and county, in courts and schools. Environmental awareness should be built in the house, in the family, in everyday life, in their own education, and in child rearing. We wish our child the best, we wish him a nice crib and a nice bed sheets and a colorful ball and clothes and shoes, and a nice bag and a computer and a chair for which he will learn, and if we wish well when we leave him, we provide polluted water and air, dumps in the woods, dirty gardens. No, I don't. We're the tiniest and the least we should do is be perfect for our child, but of course we should be perfect for ourselves. Because we don't need to buy anything material, spend it, we just need our right attitude and our awareness of environmental cleanliness, our health. I conclude, the Croatian People's Party Club will, of course, support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8582	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8583	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of the presentation on behalf of the SDP Club in this legal document, which has a very complicated name, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support the adoption of the Law confirming the protocol on the release and transfer of pollutants with the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental issues known in the Croatian public as the Archeological Convention. I would like to remind you that the Croatian Parliament ratified the Archduke Convention at a session held on 8 December 2006, so a year and a half ago. In addition to the Archduke Convention, with the Environmental Protection Act adopted last year, a proposal for this proposal for a law on which we are talking today, provisions ensuring the implementation of the Archduke Convention on public access, information on the environment, public participation in decision-making, and access to justice in environmental matters, as well as the establishment of an environmental pollution register containing data on the release and transfer of polluting substances to the environment and the content of this Protocol that we are currently ratifying. The Archduke Convention and the Environmental Protection Act, which was voted on in early October 2007 and entered into force in mid-October of that year, with the exception of Article 37(3) and Article 72(6) of this Act, which will enter into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, have made a commitment to allow citizens free access to environmental information, guarantee public participation, and facilitate access to justice when citizens' rights to a healthy environment are violated. In the context of the proposal, the Proposer tells us that the aim of this Act is to strengthen public access and environmental information through a register of emissions and transfer of polluting substances and that it is intended to establish a mechanism for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be able to live in an environment that does not interfere with its or its health or well-being. By ensuring the development of a publicly available environment information system, accounts on the principles of sustainable development are taken into account, as the precautionary principle has been adopted by the 15th Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. But what we have been witnessing over the past few days suggests that, unfortunately, in Croatia, there is still no consideration of the principle of caution, and that many citizens and citizens of our country live in an environment that violates their health and well-being. Of course, I'm talking about a Vranjica problem whose inhabitants have been for years, for decades hostages of a deadly salon. The Salonite has been poisoning the Vranjics since 1921. The fact is, for a long time, it was not known how dangerous asbestos is to human health, animals, and how polluting the environment is. As a result of this ignorance, asbestos is used especially intensively during the post - World War II period until the mid - 1970 ’ s when a building in which asbestos products are not built is hardly built. Despite its many remarkable properties, however, asbestos has a quality that makes all its positive properties useless. Namely, inhaling and contact with asbestos fibers causes severe chronic illness and death. The lung cancer caused by asbestos is a very severe disease that cannot be treated but only treated with morphine. Although the claims of damaged citizens and citizens against powerful corporations that have or have dealt with asbestos in the United States and in the EU which we are seeking today are daily phenomena and very often result in the payment of millions of damages in Croatia, such damages are not hoped for by Vranjica residents and residents. It is quite clear if the "Salonite" owner's behaviour is considered due to doubts about financial malfeasance for more than two years on the run, and now that he has been found in Bosnia and Herzegovina he will not be extradited to Croatia because, in addition to Croatia, the gentleman in question has a Bosnian-Herzegovina passport, which allows him to enjoy all rights of Croatian citizens but in no way commits him to respect his obligations to the state of which he is a citizen, although he should also be a citizen of a state. That asbestos patients cannot hope for justice in Croatia indicates the state's behaviour in the case of "Salonite". Despite Article 69. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia reads: "Everyone has the right to a healthy life." The state provides conditions for a healthy environment and everyone is obliged as part of their powers and activities to pay particular attention to the protection of the health of people of nature and the human environment and the cases of the sick employees of Vranjica and their citizens is visible that neither the Constitution nor the laws and international conventions in our country are respected in practice, and that is what we in SDP are particularly concerned about. If the Constitution, the Environmental Protection Act, the Convention on Access to Information to Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs, as well as the Environmental Protection Register Regulation are not able to ensure public rights to information on environmental pollution that has potentially extremely dangerous consequences on human health, then probably not even confirming this extremely important and quality protocol will provide the public with the right to information on the state of the environment. Although organisations, especially those suffering from asbestos, frequently warned about the acute problem of "Salonite" close to the densely populated urban area of Split and demanded an appropriate reaction from the state authorities of the administration, they showed a scandalous lack of interest in this case of constant poisoning of a large number of people from Vranjica and wider surroundings. Although the Ministry of Environment in January 2005 "Salonite" finally recognized as the biggest environmental problem in Croatia, the fact is that today more than three years later, Vranjic residents still breathe asbestos dust. At the public competition, the Ministry awarded the Croatian Institute of Construction a programme of work on the care and recovery of asbestos-cemental waste in the factory circle "Salonite" and "Mravinska coffee" as the most favourable bidder. What is horrifying is that although the aforementioned programme predicted the disposal of asbestos as municipal waste, although asbestos based on the rules classified as hazardous waste, the performer did not respect even such a programme, but even the carcinogenic asbestos waste was loaded with bulldozer, driven on open trucks and drove to the site "Mrvavinska Coffee" where asbestos spread, erupted and covered with ordinary land. The Fund has assigned Cyan and the "Salonite" company the work of the recovery of the "Salonite" factory's circle, which is a difficult violation of Croatia's international obligations, as in Article 17. The Convention on the Safe Use of asbestos requires that the removal of hazardous asbestos-containing waste be carried out exclusively by companies authorised to carry out such activities in accordance with the Convention and not by the ill workers. In addition, an insight into the environmental protection agency's eyewitnesses shows that there is no evidence that Cyan has a valid permit to work with asbestos. The disposal of carcinogenic waste from "Salonite" was carried out at a site called "Mrvavinska kava" dump site, which does not possess any status of disposal of hazardous waste under the Waste Act or under the Regulation under conditions for the handling of hazardous waste. After IGH informed the competent ministry last year that he suspected Cyan was not implementing a recovery under the work programme, the ministry ordered the measurement of asbestos emissions in the Vranjic area at the time the slide was implemented. The results today a year later we know. The asbestos dust emissions show, according to the results of the Ministry of Employment of the Laboratory, indicated that the value of asbestos emissions in the air and, in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organization, was repeatedly exceeded. The ministry has decided to ignore these results as incorrect and not respecting the principle of caution on these extremely disturbing results has violated the Constitution of both the legal and sublegal regulations of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to stress that it is the obligation of each of the parties to the Archeological Convention to ensure that every natural and legal person has access to environmental information kept by public authorities or others and it is necessary to make public authorities available and provide information on the environment to the general public to the greatest extent possible. The Archdiocese Convention can be divided into three basic parts, access to information, public participation and access to justice. Since the first two principles of the Convention in the case of the "Salonite" recovery have already been violated, we can only hope that the damaged residents of Salonit will receive satisfaction in accessing the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8584	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8585	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. I will begin my debate with the question why the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Registers of Release and Transfer of Contaminants with the Convention on Access to Information, the participation of the public in the decision-making of the judiciary in environmental matters. I can say that there are at least three reasons for that, and they're all equally important. First, the Protocol is a further contribution to global democratisation of society in the area of the environment. Two, the Protocol is part of the legal property of the European Union whose member will become the Republic of Croatia. And the ratification of the Protocol by the Republic of Croatia contributes to strengthening the democratic rights of Croatian society. As the Protocol on the Registers of Releases and Transfers of Contaminants is known, I will continue to use the terms of the Protocol, adopted on the basis of Articles 5 and 10. The Archduke Conventions. In December 2006, the Croatian Parliament ratified the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs known as the Archduke Convention, as it was adopted in the Danish town of Archus in 1998, so that the Republic of Croatia is a party to the Convention since June 2007. In addition, the Republic of Croatia has brought its legislation into line with the regulations and directives of the European Union which the European Union has transposed into its legislation. These are Directive 2003/4 on the right to access environmental information and Directive 2003/35 on public participation in decision-making on environmental issues. In addition to being a party to the Archduke Convention, the European Union ratified in 2006 and this Protocol which is now before us and which we are discussing. The Protocol has ratified other 6 countries so far; Estonia, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany, Slovakia and Switzerland and will come into force when it is ratified by 16 countries. In order to implement the Protocol, the European Union adopted Regulation 66/2006 establishing a European register and releasing and transfer of pollutants. This Regulation established a full register of the release and transfer of pollutants to the European Union level to apply the Protocol. In view of this, I believe that we can assess that by ratifying the Protocol, Croatia will receive a full legal framework in this area, i.e. in which the public is further guaranteed free and transparent access to environmental information. This is another contribution to democratisation of Croatian society by adopting the most modern standards in environmental protection. As I have already said to the new 2007 Environmental Protection Act, a significant step has been taken in harmonising with the acquis of the European Union in the field of environmental protection and the process continues with the adoption of implementing rules. Thus, the Ministry of Environmental Protection has already adopted a Regulation on the environmental pollution register to ensure implementation of... The European Union, Regulation 166/2006 establishing a European register for the release and transfer of pollutants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore my pleasure to establish that the Republic of Croatia already has a secure mechanism for implementing this Protocol. The objective of this Act on Confirmation of the Protocol may be to say fourfold. First, to strengthen public access to environmental information through a register or database on the release and transfer of pollutants at national level. Two, the databases will be publicly available via the Internet. Three, these databases will be free, searchable according to specific parameters. Plants means polluter, location,... and so on, such structures which enable easy use and refer to other relevant or similar registers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And four, and the data shown will be standardised and timely. I conclude that the Protocol Confirmation Act will establish a mechanism for every member of the current and future generations of the Republic of Croatia to be able to live in an environment that does not disrupt the health and well-being of its citizens by ensuring the development of a publicly available system of environmental information. The Register for the release and transfer of polluting substances into the environment, the rules set out in the domestic Regulation and this Protocol contribute to a better quality attitude towards the environment by enabling public access to information on pollutants released and transferred locally. Since the registers of the release and transfer of polluting substances or databases on the release and transfer of pollutants at national level represent an important mechanism and strengthen the joint responsibility of reducing pollution and promoting sustainable development of the Protocol Act will achieve the objectives of a comprehensive approach to reducing and polluting the environment resulting from the work of industrial plants and other sources in order to achieve a high level of environmental protection as a whole, achieving sustainable and environmentally acceptable development and protecting health. The Croatian Democratic Union will retain the envisaged law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8586	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8587	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Here is another law in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the compatible legislation of the European Union with the approximation of Croatia's entry into the same. But right away in the beginning, given that the really important document is I have to answer to my colleague Holly that we all think that if there is an asbestos problem and there is obviously a Vrnica that they need relevant bodies and solve it. But I would not agree with the fact that all these years, as far as Vranjica is concerned, there was nothing done by the governments of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of who was at the head of the Ministry of Health. If you remember a colleague for almost 10 years, it took a slow time to admit to the workers of Salonita a professional illness, so to speak. Asbestosis, we all know how it starts. It's a disease that's measurable. And three or four years ago, the Institute of Medicine means the state institute has ruled that workers are some affected by asbestos. So let's not really say that nothing has been done all these years. That the eyes were closed to the problem. The problem is obvious and I agree with you in this section that you have presented and chronologically, if this is so likely, the competent ministries will do everything to ensure that justice is served and that the people of Vranjica live in a healthy environment like all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And given that in these last 3 or 4 weeks we have passed several laws on environmental protection and harmonisation with the European Union, I would remind us also of the representatives and the public that the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this High House and at the time of the Homeland War 1994 brings the first Environmental Protection Act, and who has about today to read it, would see that almost all the provisions that are important today and in much part are overlapping with this Protocol that we are adopting today. In 1999, the same High House brought amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act and even better quality organizes the protection of this beautiful country for us. It is evident from this that the concern for environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia has not been hastened since its independence, has not been individual but has been constant and has led to one goal that, here today we can all be witnesses, by entering Croatia into the European Union that we really have a country that has a regulated environmental protection. It may have contributed to us not being a highly developed country like some European country, so we don't have air, soil and water pollutants like... And here today, on several occasions, this Protocol is mentioned on the basis of the Archeological Convention, which was adopted in 1998, which was then the Republic of Croatia's reminder. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2003, a protocol was signed at the 5th Ministerial Conference "Environment for Europe" in Kiev. The Protocol was signed by a total of 37 countries. It has so far been ratified by nearly 16 and is an integral part of protecting the environment of the European Union and legislation. In 2007 the Republic of Croatia also adopted its Protocol, the Regulation and what is important to say today, we heard from the Secretary of State and from all the speakers so far, and I would only mention the essential elements of this protocol. It's a register. For the first time here and in our congregation materials we have a register of polluting substances that are potential pollutants of any air, either soil, water or our waters, of course both river and sea. Therefore, this release register, but at the same time it is said of the transfer of the substance. So the transfer of matter at the site of origin to another place is regulated by this law in which we have to do it. At the same time, it also determines which bodies will implement this Protocol. These are the county offices and offices of the city of Zagreb. But we see that this protocol is clearly stated and what are the obligations, during which time period for the Environmental Protection Agency to be reported. So he says that every last year, that means a local and regional self-government unit, he has until June 15th to report to the polluting agency. To be truly all responsible for the environment, and I think that we representatives are, and so are our citizens. The main role is played by citizens and units of local self-government, i.e. administration. Because it will best be known when in one municipality or one city there is some kind of drive, or there are already any air, soil and study pollutants when they are done or when they are done, so I can say about our carlovakia county about environmental protection and a resilient study that very often in the media knows and I would say and I was mayor of the carlovakia county needlessly attack. This is environmental protection in the area of Slunj polygon, which all independent studies have shown no impact on population health. Even we were doing a medical study on whether there was an increase in malignant disease in the area of the Slunja area, but we didn’t find it. Therefore, hasty assessments of environmental impact are not really good. But we think that all responsible people will admit that the profession and the people of the profession should give their opinion on every pollutant of the substance. This Protocol says that at least 86 pollutants must be listed in each protocol. And I'd just say article 7 that talks about giving information. Exactly which institutions must receive this information, and these institutions do indeed have professional people working in those institutions, and that is stated. So, it's not gonna be what we like sometimes, it's not what politicians do, it's what we do, it's what we let the statistics do and say what it's about. Also for “The Salonite. ” Furthermore, I would like to mention Article 9 which is very important to this protocol. It says, “data collection, records, data processing at national level and cooperation within the European Union. So, no country, no air pollutants will be able to collect data, process it and leave it to themselves. By signing this protocol, we are automatically entering the European Union database system, which is very important, that we no longer control ourselves, but we have someone who will control us, and we will also control others because the EU area is unique. And indeed, there were many words. I think it is important that Article 11 which speaks about the availability and the public of information and to me personally is very likable or very important that these information must be free of charge via the Internet, but free of charge. It means that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia can access pollution information free of charge at any time. And no less significant with this Protocol it is clear that additional funding from the state budget will not be required for the implementation of this Protocol. And finally to conclude. The protection of the environment is the task of all of us, not only of our parliamentary representatives here, of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the adoption of this Protocol is part of the responsibility and public, of NGOs, of environmental organisations, and the institution of local and regional self-government, of course, and of the ministry is equally divided. And in the end, I will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8588	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8589	I agree with my esteemed colleague that the "Salonita" problem is a very long-standing problem and that this great responsibility has not only been passed by the government, but all governments have so far. However, what I wanted to point out in my debate that last year the ministry failed to respond to the precautionary principle and did not inform the public that asbestos emissions in the air were increased in line with the World Health Organisation's recommendations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8590	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8591	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in the end, we agreed that all these years, really, the institutions that were supposed to work on health care were doing their job. Whether they were doing the most effective it can always be better and I agree as a doctor. I can say it could have been more effective. But now we're where we are. With these inspection findings from a year ago, I really wouldn't have sexed because I don't have data that would have been relevant so I could assess whether someone acted the way they should have done or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8592	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8593	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'll shorten my exposure since my colleagues before me have already underlined what I wanted to highlight, but I'm going to do it one more time here and add a little more. First of all, I think it's very good that one of the previous speakers said this is about one law according to the scale of the Republic of Croatia. I really agree. It's one law per measure. But it is also a law to measure and our citizens because we see that they will be able to access relevant data at any time related to certain pollutions, react to them. It is also a law to measure environmental organisations. It is a law according to local and regional self-government, but it is also a law according to the Croatian state. I'd like to stay here for a while. In fact, perhaps we should conclude this debate first, a very important debate over “The Salonite. ” A colleague really said what to say about “The Salonite”, but what we did not say is that in Croatia today we still have tens of thousands of houses covered with salons. Those roofs are being washed away. The water from them gathers in tanks. That's where our citizens drink. Do you know colleagues and colleagues that thousands of miles of water pipes still come from asbestos, or salons? Nobody changes them. We didn't give this project any priority. We drink that water and wonder why we have certain malignancies much more than in some other countries. So that's what we need to do in us. We've got a lot of work to do, and now we're going to have parameters to create certain priorities. What I would like to say, however, is that there has been a lot less talk about it now, and that is precisely this possibility of monitoring the situation in our neighbouring countries. My colleagues and colleagues, it would probably be a lot less of a problem with ZERP, especially the environmental part that we had the opportunity to monitor and that we did it with pollutants in our neighbouring countries. If you look at what the eutrophicization of the Adriatic looks like, then you'll see that the damage to flora and fauna is right in that third to the Italian coast. Why? Due to currents, and due to the clear pollution that comes into the area along the Po River and the large industrial pools of northern Italy that pollute the area. That way, if we had made our arguments clear to the media in Italy, Slovenia, in other countries, we would probably have had a lot more understanding than if we were fighting for ZERP, not professional arguments. Now we will have that weapon in our hands and the government must use these parameters extensively. The Mediterranean UN Action Plan should also be corrected, we should seek to amend certain provisions. In fact, the Mediterranean Action Plan says all Mediterranean countries should reduce sea pollution by 50% within 10 years. Oh, please, what does that mean, colleagues and colleagues? So let's say we take some kind of, I don't know the 20-unit limit of something that's a harmful concentration by sea. The Italians will have to cut from 80 to 40. It will still be twice the limit of flora and fauna damage. We're going to have to cut from 22 units to 11, so we're going to be far below the limit. Albanians from 4 to 2 units etc. Is that fair? Is that how we should go? Absolutely not. Therefore, this weapon, we need to use this law, clearly and correct a lot of things where Croatia has so far not done enough to kill to correct what has happened. The great economic damage to our forests, here Mr. Denon has been deputy mayor for years in the Primorje-Gorski County, knows that 70% of the forest in the Gorski Kotar is clearly damaged by the action of acid rains, not southern winds from Montenegro, but clearly from the Italian industrial areas of northern Italy that come with western winds. And here we have to clearly monitor the situation, where we have to look for clear compensation and so on and so forth. This is also true for clear agricultural land, which is also true for our drinking water, it is true for everyone. Here, that's why I called to say that you in government, too, in certain ministries, must use this as one weapon that will benefit us. I know that for years there has been a trilateral between Italy, Slovenia and Croatia related to the protection of the Adriatic, but nothing concrete has ever agreed on the sanctions, related to the resolution of the obvious problems that are getting worse and worse with respect to the protection of the Adriatic. This is a chance to do it. I'm asking you to really do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8594	Thank you. Replica. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8595	So, dear colleague, the fact is that asbestos and asbestos problems are much more complex, so for example in Australia, the largest number of asbestos patients come from construction not industry, but construction workers who drank, broke, placed similar asbestos products. But I took the example of "The Salonita" because of the horn that I believe is ecldentally seen in fact in how the system and the state failed to actually respect the Archduke Convention and the principle of caution that it had to respect since it was a violation of health and the environment in general in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8596	Replication response. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8597	Very short. I fully agree with you colleagues and I hope that under these arguments and Croatian water, the Croatian state understands that the priority or list of priorities must be significantly changed in order to solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8598	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8599	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I think this bill really leaves us all here together in agreement, in full agreement with these provisions that are written here, which are also laid down in the Archduke Convention of '98. the year, as well as the 2003 Kiev protocol signed by 37 countries in Europe, including Croatia. I'm totally, so I agree with all these discussions and I don't think it's the only one, maybe this is how the most recent example came out, the problem of "The Salonite" in Vranjic, but such examples, I'm sure there's a lot. Let me just say, what I know for sure and confidently, which is the accommodation of an asphalt base in the centre of Slavonski Brod or the boiler room of the hospital at the very center of Slavonski Brod, where the emissions of sulfur dioxide and all other products that arise are quite enormously high, but I don't think the inspection and the county office of that is really leading because the hospital has to exist and what it can do, and there's no money for reconstruction. There is something else I would also like to say about availability and, as the Convention says, access to information on public participation in the decision-making and access to justice. Namely, there is one specific one, so I present a specific local problem, and this is a recent activation of the full production of oil refinery in the Bosnian Ship. Now, a colleague from HDZ said that the county offices and the agency are our responsibility to monitor and report any possible excesses of increased pollution and air pollution, water, etc. So I wonder if the parties and if we're doing air and water pollution measurements, and we know that this refinery was already causing oil stains in Sava and that there was an inspection, but unfortunately, the refinery is in another country. I don't know if the neighbouring country, as it was here in the case, was talking about Slovenia, Italy and Croatia as a Adriatic kind of initiative in the context of ecology, whether this other neighbouring country is also a signatories of the agreement, or protocol from Kiev, and how, therefore, as a county office there in Brod-Posavina County and our agency will be able to act in that case, if there is pollution and increased emissions of pollution, i.e. air pollution and water pollution on the Sava River, which clearly flows between these 2 cities. Because I'm saying, that's one problem, I think the Secretary of State is also familiar with this to say the recent problem that will arise in the future, and we know that even before the Homeland War when the refinery worked full steam, that Sava was polluted, polluted, and also the air in the area, as is polluted air in Sisak, on Caprag and beyond Caprag where the refinery in Sisak is, since both refineries use exclusively Russian oil, Romanian, Russian, Russian, which has a large amount of sulfur in its composition. In any case, it is clear that as other speakers have also pointed out in the debate, this proposal of the European law is both commendable and acceptable, which makes it clear why there are no doubt about it, is there? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8600	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8601	Thirdly, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Protocols in the Registers of Release and Transfer of Contaminants with the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs, P.Z.E. Number 60. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 109 votes and 1 abstentions have been accepted by the final proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8602	We're going to the next point. - Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2007 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the War Veterans Committee. You received the report at the session. The secretary of state of the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, Krunoslav Mesaric, will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8603	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Before I begin to explain, the most significant part of the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families is the long-awaited possibility of submitting the report as well as all these years on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and Family Rights for 2007, but today the report is on the agenda and it has happened that the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity marks the beginning of the construction and assignment of dwellings for state officials and tenants in Pula and solves the problem of Croatian defenders who are located in Valovina. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I expect your understanding of this. Most important from the 2007 Law Implementation Report. In 2007, the third year of implementation of the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, which entered into force on 1 January 2005, stabilised the system of overall care for all categories of participants and victims of the Homeland War covered by the law. Compared to the previous, the new law introduces a number of improvements that are most important to single out the next one. A new legal institute for the lowest pensions for family, old or disabled Croatian defenders from the Homeland War has been introduced. They do not depreciate rights based on the death of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who committed suicide as a result of mental illness by causing participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. The deadline has been extended to apply for the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid on the basis of a disease, 12 months since the entry into force of the law as well as for the recognition of the right to the family disability of the death of a Croatian Homeland War defender who died of the disease. The right to bury Croatian defenders from the Homeland War with military honours at the expense of the state has been laid down, the translation of defence rights by the basis of discriminatory provisions of previous laws has been abolished. Of all the activities covered by this report, it is particularly worth singleing out the following. In 2007, 11,000 563 pensioners were paid 199 million 895 thousand 805 kuna on behalf of the pension obligation for the difference between 2003 and the first six months of 2004, i.e. for the corresponding pension difference arising from the translation of pensions made under previous laws of 2001. In 2007, the translation of disability pensions and all salary entitlements on disability pensions was carried out in accordance with the provisions of Articles 152, 153 and 154. Law on the first Croatian defenders from the Homeland War of 2005, remuneration due to unemployed Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and remuneration of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War in the amount of wage difference he receives as an employee and salary he would receive as a member of the active composition of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, who are employed on the basis of the remaining work capacity achieved by 31 December 2004. The translation included 42,000 520 users of the pension benefits of Croatian defenders. By automatic means, 30 thousand 734 items were processed, 27 thousand 480 pensions and 3 thousand 254 temporary fees. Of the remaining 11 thousand 786 items, 10 thousand 938 items have been manually translated, and in 848 cases... the rights will be executed after the completion of the proceedings before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia and the revision provided for in Article 32. In 2007, the corresponding pension difference for 2005, 156 million 482 thousand 331 kuna, while remaining to pay the corresponding pension difference for the period from 1 January 2006 to 30 March 2007, was paid. The 2006 difference and the first three months of 2007 amounting to 222 million 487 thousand 31 kuna were paid this year in March. In 2007, 4 billion 167 million 982 000 and 52 kuna were paid on behalf of pensioners, pension benefits from Croatian defenders. In 2007, the pension was used on average by 50 thousand 561 users, and the temporary unemployment fee was used by an average of 3 000 140 users. The salary paid during the employment period was used by an average of 235 users, and the remuneration in relation to the use of the right to professional rehabilitation was used by an average of 20 users. On 31 December 2007, there were a thousand 430 pensioners who were recognised under the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on co-operation in the area of the rights of victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina who were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families. And determined according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, this thousand 92 disability pensions, which averaged 3 thousand 328 kuna and 19 lipa and 338 family pensions, which averaged 3000 331 kuna and 6 limes per month. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Rector's Assembly signed an Agreement on Encouragement Measures for Entries of Higher Education in accordance with which universities within their academic self-government themselves can take incentive measures to enrol candidates. It is a category that belongs to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, which is defenders, Croatian wartime disabled, children of the mortally injured, imprisoned or missing and children of a group of 100% Croatian military disabled. In the academic year 2006/2007. 8 thousand 160 students were enrolled in the Higher School in the Republic of Croatia in that category. On 23 August 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a new Programme for Professional Training and Employment of Croatian Defence and Children of the Deadly Victims, Detained or Missing Croatian Lawyers for the period 2008/2011. which we have upgraded the previous programme and the main objectives of the programme are raising the educational level of unemployed Croatian defenders and children killed, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, training for interests for which there are needs in local labour markets, as well as expanding their formal education in accordance with new technological requirements and providing financial support to Croatian defenders who have decided on various forms of self-employment either on their own or in cooperatives. The funding of the professional training and employment programmes of Croatian defenders for the period 2008-2011 will be provided in the state budget. The programme is a continuation of the successful programme of professional training and employment of Croatian defenders and children of the dead, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders who have been continuously implemented since 2004 and who was employed during the previous term of office by more than 7,000 Croatian defenders, of which only in 2007. 2 thousand, 227 Croatian defence cooperatives were founded to show their achievements at three fairs. The last one was held in Zagreb and earlier in Vukovar and Split. In November 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a new programme to improve the quality of life in the families of the dead Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime wartime disabled and Croatian defenders of PTSD for the period 2008-2011. The programme focuses on four target groups, widows of the Homeland War, children of the deceased defenders and wives of the wartime wartime disabled and wives and children of defenders who are suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. The implementation of the programme shall include the collection of available data on the prevalence of primary and secondary traumatisation, the organisation of systematic examinations and systematic monitoring of the health status of target groups. On the basis of the results obtained, the programme provides for the development of institutional and non-institutional support networks for victims and through the organisation of seminars and public stands will seek to strengthen the sensitisation of society for all victims of primary and secondary victimisation. In 2007, 20 personal cars were assigned with adjustments from the Croatian wartime invalid 100% of the first group during the 2004-2007 term were assigned a total of 355 passenger cars for the group whose personal cars were yet to be assigned in 2003. This brought back all debts in the name of the right to private cars for the most difficult Croatian military disabled in the Homeland War. The Single Aid Commissions in 2007 considered a thousand 143 requests. A thousand 65 requests for one-time cash aid have been positively resolved. The total amount paid for the one-time cash aid to socially endangered defenders in 2007 amounted to 4 million 466,685 kuna. The comparisons for 2003 were divided only 38 times with a total amount of 335 thousand kuna. During 2007, 182 requests for co-financing of orthopaedic aid were received. 140 co-financing requests have been settled positively. The total amount granted for 140 approved requests for the co-financing of orthopaedic and other aid in 2007 was 3 million 503 000 101 kuna and 73 June. A cooperation agreement has been signed in the Programme for the Treatment of 100% of Croatian Military Disabilities of the first group in the hyperbaric chamber in Split and three apartments have been arranged for people with disabilities and their escort at the Hotel "Duilovo" Split for accommodation during treatment. Treatment of the first disabled in the hyperbaric chamber began in May 2006 and so far included 15 disabled people of the Homeland War and members of their families. On December 31st, 494 thousand 757 Croatian defenders were found in the Croatian Defence Register of 31st, while the total net assets of the Croatian Defence Fund amounted to 4 billion 236 million 282 thousand kuna on 31st December. Payment commitments for 2005 and 2006 as well as 2007 The fund manager, i.e. the fund management company, secured 127 million 143 thousand 666 kuna. For the 2007/2008 school year The Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders approved a total of 7 thousand 45 scholarships. Of which 4000 779 scholarships for secondary school students, 2 thousand 251 scholarships for students and 15 participation of part of the costs for postgraduate studies. The scholarship amount is 400 kuna high school, and for colleges a thousand kuna. Participating part of the cost for postgraduate studies is 7 thousand kuna. In total, the Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund divided 10 thousand and 17 scholarships in 2007. In 2007, he began the work and foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families to improve the economic position of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. During the Foundation's reporting period, it granted financial assistance to users totalling 5 million 341 thousand and 59 kuna. During the reporting period organised by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity in 9 counties, excavations were carried out at 75 places, test excavations at 75 places for which information was collected that possible sites of mass and individual tombs were available. The exhumed remains of 182 people were also found in 17 places. By the end of 2007, 51 monuments were discovered, marking 91 sites of mass graves, and 5 mentions of markings were discovered in the sites of mass graves. During 2007 in the Republic of Croatia, a total of 869 Croatian wartime disabled and Croatian war defenders from the Homeland War died, with military honors, and 869 Croatian wartime wartime people and Croatian defenders from the Homeland War were buried. A total of 70,000 311 interventions for 53,000 and 87 users were provided in the framework of the national psychosocial and health assistance programme to participants and victims from the Homeland War in the 21st district centre for psychosocial assistance by 31 December 2007. The National Programme continued to be implemented in the regional centres of Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek, for which renewed cooperation agreements with 5 clinical hospitals were implemented, and thus regional centres for psychotrauum and crisis centres also continued to work within which 187,000 396 interventions were provided by 31 December. By the start of the reporting period on 1 January 2007, 15 thousand 426 housing claims were received, and a total of 16 thousand 558 applications were received during the reporting period. In accordance with the order set out in 2007, a thousand 76 applications for the award of an apartment or a loan were resolved. During 2007, the rehabilitation of the 43 family houses of 100% disabled group I was completed. And finally, the Ministry of the Family, the defender for this program, as you have been reported and written, spent 5 billion 622 million 477 thousand 820 kuna, of which the previous law of 2001 has been judgments only, i.e. due to debts of previous debts, not since '94. Payed 6 million 993 thousand 527 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8604	Thank you. The War Veterans Committee? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Ivić Tomislav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8605	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. The 2007 report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and Family Members is very good quality, complete, transparent and shows that care for Croatian defenders who are the most responsible for the creation and defence of the Croatian state was one of the priorities in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in 2007, but throughout the term of office. This report is the best confirmation of the fact that in the past four years, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resoring Ministry headed by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Jadranka Kosor have done much to resolve the position and status of Croatian defenders and members of their families more quality than they have been. The funds in the state budget were secured for the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence in the past four years are almost doubled, and in 2007, they amounted to 5.62 billion kuna and only confirm what I just said. However, it may be an even better indicator than the figures are projects and programmes in 2007 and throughout the term of office and I will mention only those most important due to limited time. In 2004, a new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders was passed, which brought a whole series of improvements and new solutions such as protected defence pensions, extensions of status, paid funeral costs for all dead Croatian defenders, etc., and contributed significantly to improving the overall status of the defence population. And most importantly, the Law is consistently implemented in practice. There is no way to create debts to defenders because of the law's non-implementation, which was the case with previous laws. In any case, it is commendable that nearly a billion kuna has been paid out of the State budget for commitments made by previous laws and regulations. The Croatian Defence Fund was founded. One of the strongest in the country. The transferred shares of Croatian Telecom and INA, worth more than 4 billion kuna, will significantly contribute to improving the material status of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Recently, the dividend has begun to be paid to all the Fund's participants, which gives the Fund its full purpose. As a result of the founding of the Fund, the Croatian Defence Foundation has also been established with 70 million kuna for the social and humanitarian needs of Croatian defenders. The grant fund provides funds for the regular education of Croatian defenders and their children and only within two years over 10,000 scholarships. This government has completed a programme of housing of 100% Croatian military disabled people, which is commendable for all of them and has provided and delivered 358 cars with adjustments that were to be delivered by 2004 and are not. Through the programme of employment of unemployed Croatian defenders and new measures, more than 7,000 Croatian defenders have been employed and in particular a very successful measure should be highlighted to support the establishment of defence cooperatives, and around 220 cooperatives were founded mainly with the support of the Resort Ministry. After many years of agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina, the status of victims of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families has been resolved in a quality way. A new national psychosocial assistance programme has been adopted for Croatian defenders and members of their families, as well as for the reorganisation of PSP centres, and special attention is paid to the families of Croatian defenders. For the purposes of the Croatian Defence Fund and for the systematic care of Croatian defenders for the first time, a register of Croatian defenders was created as a basic document. Resorno The Ministry launched an accessibility project for persons with disabilities who are successfully implemented in cooperation with local self-government units, which contributes to removing architectural barriers to both Croatian wartime disabled and all other disabled persons. The programme for the treatment of the most difficult Croatian military disabled in the baro chamber in Split is successfully realised. In particular, it is necessary to highlight the successful cooperation and partnership with the Associations of the Homeland War that participated in the drafting of laws and regulations but also in all major projects and programmes implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Resort Ministry, which were of interest to the defence population. From what I have said, I have listed only part of the activities of the Resoring Ministry it is evident that there has been systematic care for Croatian defenders and that Croatia has a well-built system of care for those most responsible for the creation of the Croatian State and that their position and status has been significantly improved over the past 4 years and that it is necessary to give recognition to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Prime Minister Sanader, the Resoring Ministry, all employees and especially the Vice-President and Minister Mrs Jadranki Kosor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8606	Thank you. SDP club Mr. Agent Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8607	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Reading the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2007, I did not expect to find anything that could be characterized as negligent about Croatian defenders. Of course, the Resort Ministry, the government will not criticise itself and say that they have not done or done something right. But as a counsellor and a parliamentary representative, I have the right to see and deal with general and defence problems. Of course, the government is taking measures to address the defence issues but I consider it to be a defender and a person who has to defend the interests of the defender, that it is time for maximum... and improving certain key defence problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think we have the time or the right to postpone life-threatening topics related to Croatian defenders. I think that here's the policy in some segments that's out of date and that we need to improve it. I'll list some. Health care. We have to agree that it's not effective. The defenders have been waiting for months for various examinations, for treatment in spas. The defenders are constantly dying of various diseases without knowing what types of disease they are. ... It's not a cochlean. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I know exactly what I'm talking about, and I hope you'll be patient. I'm from war and I know what I'm saying. And unlike Mr. Franjo Matusic, who only has his head turned around and turned his eyes during the operations of all Croatian armies I was in Croatia and I fought and I was nowhere outside. Please listen to me. It is crucial that there are no preventive checks for all defenders and there is no record of the cause of disease and mortality in the defence population. The doctors know that. This is Dr. Bagaric. He understands me best. We need to find ways to at least ensure that the fighting sector in a two-year cycle is visited by a medical institution that would be specially prepared and adapted to the needs of the defenders. I suggest we form regional centers, upgrade them. We have many educated doctors who have been ten, twelve and over years, today in the Croatian Army who have specialized in various, they specialize in various segments. We can pull them back. They're in hospitals now. We're forming regional centers. We have health care for people who understand defenders and who have been inside the system for many years. I suggest we form homes for residential carefree, powerless and sick defenders. What about lawyers who are 100% disabled? Their parents die, I have such friends a few. They'll be alone. And we don't know what to do with these people. We need to see and ensure ways to take care of them in due course. We need to find ways to have a medical register of patients and diseases because this would allow the creation of a prevention strategy and early diagnostics. The report shows that there's a lot of psychosocial assistance centers that work. They're somewhere, they have about 257 thousand 700 interventions a year, and they seem not filled enough, teamed up. We have a lot of volunteers here, and I think we need to fill them in to make them even more effective. They're good, but we still have to make that minimum effort to make sure they have all the conditions. I also know very well in Zagreb that there are no conditions provided and therefore I blame the city of Zagreb because it did not allow this centre to function in time and that maximum health care is given to people who deserve it completely. I'm asking the Department of Defense, the Ministry of Health, to take this problem seriously, because for the death of every defense attorney if we haven't taken everything in our power, we're all to blame. Another problem, a major problem that weighs most defenders, is housing problems. Today's Law on Defence allows for the right to a housing loan, only to those defenders who have the status of a Croatian wartime invalid. And of course I'm going to commend what Mr. Ivić said, and that we finally solved 100 percent of the disabled and that's very good and I think it's absolutely for every commendation. But what about a few hundred thousand defenders who aren't disabled? Many of them live on the edge of existence, and some are literally starving. I suggest that the government secure the necessary resources for those most vulnerable defenders. I suggest we make a special list of the most vulnerable defenders, so that, for example, POS's apartments, we can solve a part of these proud, and unfortunately, poor defense families. I'm terribly sorry that we haven't recognized that problem yet and that we haven't treated people who aren't disabled properly, and I say there are several hundred thousand of them. We've got some really tough cases. The third problem is the great unemployment of the defenders. We have about 22,000 unemployed defenders today. A lot of funds have been allocated from the ministry to this item in the budget. That's good. The D.A. can't just be responsible, nor can it solve this big problem. Although it solved a part of the defender and it solved it, you heard from the reports every year. What I believe is that the Government must give an accent in particular and that the Government must give greater importance to this problem through the Ministry of Tourism, Agriculture and Economy, of all resolution ministries. You can't let the D.A. handle all this big and serious stuff. The laws we have and speak of priority counseling. Somewhere they respect each other, somewhere they don't respect each other. I know certain examples of each other. I ask that the government make sure where the law is applied hastily and that additional efforts are made to enable the employment of their children's defenders. I suggest we build some kind of agency in the government or with a government that would coordinate and take care of the defense attorney's employment. We don't have one body today. We have a forwarding ministry, but it doesn't know what's going on at the Ministry of Economy, it doesn't have time, they can't have, and they don't have the opportunity to see what's going on there. So I propose to one agency, one body that will coordinate the work of all ministries and report annually what has been done to the problem of hiring defenders. The fourth problem that kills defenders is a terrible and slow administration, and because of them we have a lot of dissatisfied, frustrated and prone to the suicide of defenders. That's what I was talking about. One of my soldiers, Pavić, killed himself a few months ago in Sinj because he waited 6 to 7 years for the status of the disabled and simply failed him and left his will. I think we need to speed it up. The defenders who apply to obtain the status of a Croatian war invalid with their required documentation are waiting for a year, two depends, perhaps more to resolve their status, and several more years to exercise their right to retire. On average, it's three to four years. During that period, the defender must visit a number of committees. I believe that measures must be taken to speed up these processes and allow people to get a solution as soon as possible, positively or negatively. We're not getting into what the commission's doing. They're independent and let them do their job. But the defense attorney can't wait a few years until the trial's over. We need to speed it up. If there's a need to step up the commission with the expert personnel, we'll do it. We still have, I think, about 16,000 requests for recognition of disability status. You know how long that's gonna take? It's going to stretch to maybe another 7, 8, 10 years, we don't know exactly yet, and we don't even have a projection of how long it would take. In my opinion, it's four serious problems, and I hope you understand the essence of my exposure. Reading the report, I realized that the personal disability had not increased since 2000, which perhaps should be paid attention, although I say it may not be primarily for these defence problems right now. Also, I can't not touch the register of Croatian defenders. We still don't know exactly what the total number in the register is. The report says and speaks of 494257, meaning thousands of defenders, while data from the fund comes from about 525000 defenders. I'd like to know what's the exact truth and what's the exact number. The further report says that in the fighting sector we have 433818 combat defenders in the fighting sector. In the non-combat sector, we have 18138, without a fixed sector of 622 people. I'm asking you, what does that mean without a fixed sector? Someone can't be that they don't have combat or non-combat status. I think we need to work this out. We also have 42180 people in the fighting and non-combat sectors. Now I wonder again, what is it? 42000 people are neither defenders nor defense attorneys. That doesn't make any sense to me. If in all wars there are men who fought, and those who didn't. If they were on the front line of the front line, then they must have defensive status. It's to me to say it's absolutely not clear. That's why more is to open the register to the public, but especially in choir areas, by brigades, because it's the only way we can really know who was on the front line of the front line and how many defenders there are. I wouldn't want this to be seen as an attack, though, which some might think. Understand that certain things need to be changed, improved. I am, I have terrible good things and commendable things for what the Ministry of Defense does and I will always point out and I will always talk about it well and commendably, and for those things that I think should be improved, that they should be improved I will also make it loud and clear, without twisting and without environment and without any entrenchedness and without saying any kind of sneaky attacks. I will support and support any idea that will do good and which will be of interest to the defender. We have a good Law today on defenders, on the rights of Croatian defenders, but let's make it even more improved. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, fellow MPs thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8608	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8609	Thank you. My colleague Kotromanović, I agree with you that the health care of the defender, especially the most severely ill and wounded, is very differentiated, demanding, expensive and certainly and always needs to be improved. However, to say that defenders die from various diseases in the way you said it then are exhumed from this society, it is truly unacceptable and thank God that it is true. Thus, certainly all kinds of concerns and improvements in that sense, but it simply cannot be said that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8610	Second, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8611	Mr. Vice-President, I will correct one of a series of incorrect allegations by my colleague Kotromanovic, where he has claimed that it must and may improve the disability process in those applications that have been filed. It is clearly defined that the procedure has three times to come before the Commission for post-traumatic stress syndrome. All medical examinations, group or individual sessions, medical experts and PTSD centres must be carried out and only after three or three years can a second stage solution be obtained if the disease cannot be cured when it is confirmed to be permanent. And then that all institutions do not participate in the care and care of Croatian defenders is not correct. Namely, on the back of the report, you'll see who made up this report. So in it, almost all of those who were listed and participated, meaning from local self-government to all the ministries listed in the back, clearly says that most of the ministries and local and regional units of local self-government are concerned and concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8612	The HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8613	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of the Croatian Ombudsman from the Homeland War and members of their families is made up systematically on all elements of the implementation, comprehensive and very comprehensive. The cost recapitulation makes it clear how much money is allocated for certain categories of rights under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families last year. Permanent cash rights in the report include 17 different rights, which clearly shows the country's attitude towards those who contributed most to its creation with their lives. However, I don't think the report needs to show a category of peacetime military invalids because they are being dealt with under other laws. There is also a unclear difference in the amounts allocated for the permanent rights shown in the recapitulation on page 3 of the 799 and a half million kuna reports, compared to the amount of expenditure shown for permanent rights in the comparative review on page 23 reports of 814 million kuna. On one-off rights and laws, and with the aim of improving the quality of assistance, I think it would be necessary to analyse and agree on the action of the foundations of legal obligations towards defenders and social care on the one hand and the activities of the trust on the other hand. When it comes to housing care, the report finds several places in which the problem of resuscitation of buildings, mainly the house for the most difficult category of victims. I believe that the question of the quality of construction and the responsibility of those who have not fulfilled their obligations regarding the quality of that construction should be considered. Very often, new locations for organised construction are also mentioned, which is very commendable. However, the HSS believes that it would be necessary to bring the problem of housing under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families more into line with the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia related to the development of rural areas and to enable defenders of more humane forms of housing in the family houses in the villages where they live, rather than further guoise them in apartments, and thus move them from their hearths. Pension insurance rights are part of our indicator of negative tendencies, leaving quality people to retire for a simple reason because their pension rights are greater than their labour rights. I think it would be necessary to consider that defenders who are in a working relationship have better supplements based on participation in war and suffering as a form of permanent rights, because in this way they would certainly reduce pension allocations, and also enable that population to continue to work actively in their jobs and thus create new values. When it comes to the quality of people here, it is certainly meant for those who are 35, 40 years old, and what happens to us is that people of that age and those years are retired, which certainly no society can accept with ease, and certainly our society and our economy. During the period from 1 January to 31 December 2007, an average of just over 22,000 unemployed defenders, or almost 22 and a half thousand unemployed, were recorded. At the same time, more than 8 and a half thousand defenders were employed during that period. It just shows that, with the government's incentives and all the investment and all the work that's being given here, it's still showing that a large number of those who are unemployed, and especially if we look at the poorest region, which is in Slavonia that about 6 and a half thousand unemployed defenders are, if we take Slavonia at the start of the economy today, according to the GDP, if we look at unemployment that wages are 30% less, it's certainly an additional difficulty for those who live in those areas. It's hard to explain to someone in '91. Years, '92. The year he gave himself to create a Croatian state, that he could not find a job today. That's a problem we can't escape from. I'm a volunteer in '91. years and I know very well what it means to be in Vukovar and Vinkovci and Slavonia, and therefore I experience this as well as those who can't find a job today. Therefore, I think that we should deal specifically with these areas and people who, here, are gravitating along the border, because the problem appears to us especially in those border areas, looking at Bosnia and looking at Serbia. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8614	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8615	... Excuse me. The Croatian Peasant Party's club will accept this report in addition to these suggestions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8616	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8617	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. I like to say that no country cares about war veterans as the Republic of Croatia does. Nowhere in any country on a globe Earth veterans of war have status, they have no rights to enjoy here in the Republic of Croatia. No country for that population, and it should also be recognised and told the truth, does not separate most of the budget from what the Republic of Croatia does. Perhaps, the number of residents in no country was as many "protectors" as there were in the Republic of Croatia. 4 and a half million people on our record who no one wants to publish, who is kept as a snake's foot, as much as 500 grand. The Homeland War Law weighs at cca 5% of the state budget. Don't forget, on the other hand, that for the social component of this country around 80 percent of our budget goes somewhere. So that's pay, pensions, welfare, health care, et cetera, et cetera. In one word, this law for last year was worth 5.6 billion kuna. Some rights that know our law that enjoy Croatian defenders are beyond any war. The right to grant free shares is certainly not known by any country on the globe. And it has to be admitted and God forbid they're the same way after '91. treated NOB fighters. However, the NOB fighters' relationship is as well as the financing ratio of the Bleiburska and Jasenovska tragedies, but some other time, we talked a lot about this this morning. I said, this Defense Act, so for 2007, it was worth 5.6 billion kuna, 5% budget, somewhere around here. I'm not talking about stocks right now. It's a good thing they don't sell. The decline in the stock market has led to the loss of cca 500 million kuna from the end of 2007, and I want to believe that trust in some systems of Ina, THT shares, etc. Because for the first three months of this year, only THT has made traffic seem to me, not to win, and perhaps profit, out of even 2 billion kuna, to restore that trust in the stock market system. I want to touch housing here on page 25. So by the beginning of 2007, 15 thousand 426 applications were received, and in 2007, another thousand 132 requests, so a total of 16 thousand 558. Not to quote literally from word to word on this page 26, however, I will take the opportunity to mention the Valovina case in Pula where a certain number of defenders who trained at Muzil were promised there in 93. Go to Pula, do a little work on national consciousness and in return you will get apartments. However, these apartments are not available. And anyway, these people clearly have no place to go back, they've been living in these areas for 15 years, living in inhumane conditions, blocking one of the most attractive city spaces, and rightly expects someone in the competent ministry to meet their obligation and there they should be fully supported. I know that our ministry is working on some priorities, doing things by the law, but these people should also come to order one day, because from the moment they were sent and when they were promised something, it's been 15 years since their brother. So they've been waiting for something for 15 years, they're wrong, and that problem needs to be solved. It is clear that the city of Pula should be included in all this, but the construction of the ministry must be clearly financed. As far as page 40 is concerned, we are now talking about a disability review. I want to remind here of, say, diagnosis 1 and 2. I remind you of the very false diagnosis that was spoken of more a few months ago in public. This exploitation of the system should also be stopped, fully supporting the efforts of the State's Attorney's Office. We all know that there are a lot of people around us who simply represent themselves as disabled people and that they are not, and we all know that there are apartments going along, cars without taxes or customs all on imports, to go pensions, to go rights for children, to go other customs privileges, to go to textbooks I don't know about children, holidays, priority in employment, study etc. etc. Real people with disabilities all, there's no higher priority than that in this country, but everyone else who isn't, right diagnosis. You're destroying the system, you're compromising the system, and that's a lot to say. Let's not talk about a certain president of HVIDRA, say, from Kastela near Split who worked with the Pala mafia and now imagine gentlemen that we have one such case of one of the presidents of the SAB of a Castle, that in that position he collaborated with mobsters who robbed I don't know the central bank in the city of Split. It's simply impossible and it's also open to talk about. This requires a clear involvement of the state attorney's office which we have often called for due to inadequate treatment in the case of Korea, which we know in the end how it ended. I want to say a few words about pensions. I didn't know it existed until I was stopped in Buzet yesterday by Josip Krajcar, I think he was a captain in the Croatian Army there in Lika 92, 93 to 94, and he speaks this way. The temporary solution of 6.4.2006 recognises a proportional part of the retirement pension of 3.349.00 kuna starting from 1.11.2005. The solution states that I have met all the conditions, i.e. 40 years and 4 days of total internship. Clear time spent on a double-term battlefield, etc. In the light of the reasons for establishing the level of pension, it is stated that the personal point does not increase within the meaning of the provisions of the Defence Act, since the corresponding pension is higher than that, subject to those conditions. The final decision of 20.2.2007 lays down the right to a proportionate part of the retirement pension of 3.352.00 kuna. The same solution now lays down the right to increase the personal point of 10% resulting in an amount of 3.513,00 kuna, i.e. an increase in Article 14 of that law of 161,00 kuna. However, if someone had given him a normal internship, he would have increased his pension of 826.00 kuna. I'll give you state secretaries all these papers, and he literally begs me to do something to wipe me out of the defense system regarding pension status because that's how I lose about 650 thousand kuna. So he receives 3,349,00 kuna means with 161,00 kuna 3,513,00 kuna and, realistically, he would not be granted the benefit of the defense internship, he got about 4000 and some kuna. So the pension allowance cancels that means the defence supplement, analyzes this allowance from a regular pension. I'll give you these arguments, complaints on those solutions, solutions, etc. so you can see what can be done here, because he is probably not the only such case in the Republic of Croatia. Turns out the more a man does in this country, the worse it gets. As for the exhumations of page 105. Everything that seems more than professional. Here today we also talked about cases after World War II. For example, at the Buzet cemetery, I think that there are 120 war victims, the end of the 45th, it doesn't matter now, which were brought there in 2007, and I think that this place next to the city should also be adequately marked. Page 109 speaks of perhaps the biggest problem of this entire defence population, perhaps Croatian society at the moment. It's a suicide amongst that population, it's an almost insolvent problem, it's a huge problem, these people need to be dealt with so that tragedy doesn't happen. No one has the right to be called to understand each other, I know the government is doing everything possible, but the problem is serious. What do you do? I don't know. There seems to be no solution. But once again, I'm going to say it's the worst thing that's ever happened. In 2007, 119 defenders raised their hands, 2006. 119, 2005. 129, 2004. 96, 2003. 138. In one word, from ninety to today, even a thousand 870 of our sons, and that is what warns and should be dealt with in particular, not politicized, and no one when it comes to not calling. Employment. The advantage of hiring in all authorities is clearly given to defenders as well as their children. So much would not be burnt if the Defence Registry were released, that preventions would be done to reduce abuse. Otherwise, the number of unemployed decreases in Croatia, we saw it today or yesterday on certain Croatian Institute sites and data. In a year, the number of unemployed defenders decreased by 2,000 and 500, and that is commendable. Finally, I dare say that Croatia's biggest problem will eventually be labour. Today, Croatia has no labour force, for example in one Istria, in Zagreb and tomorrow, as is the example in Istria or Zagreb, it will be throughout this country. However, if we were to hire again and again this negative proportion of unemployed workers, or the pensioner, would still remain 1.39:1 and 1.5.1 respectively. I'm glad there's been a lot of talking about the economy lately. However, once again, I would like to say that this report is a difficult 5.6 billion kuna. That says the defense population is being taken care of. Surely no country that has that population and we can say that they have all the "higher and higher" of the second world war doesn't allocate nearly as much funds as the Republic of Croatia does, and normally needs to encourage the government that does. The defenders mean all the honor but no one should, too, say, seek some additional rights that do not stem from that status. What else do you say? For the end, it might be good to publish this Defence Registry because the obvious number of 500 thousand is at least odd because if so many defenders perhaps the Croatian Army would have reached Stalingrad. ... To Stalingrad, I said. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? ... We didn't go that way, we shouldn't have gone that way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But well, it's a good thing we stayed at the borders of Croatia. All in all, we will support this report and I think the correct state refers to Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8618	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8619	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I would like to make several observations and, above all, to comment on this report. First of all, we think that this report is very comprehensive, even too wide and is burdened with a series of data that are not necessary to gain insight into a general situation about everything that has been done or better said has not been done to improve the position of Croatian defenders. The position of Croatian defenders as shown in this report turns out to be really good, very good. I wish that were the case. But, of course, and unfortunately not. Therefore, the first sentence in the report, which is found to be a stable system of overall care for all categories of participants and victims of the Homeland War, is very questionable. Of course, I'm not saying and I don't think anything has been done for our defenders. There are good things and certain progress when it comes to caring for defenders but I also think that this finding on stabilising is a political finding and that many defenders would disagree with it if they read it. We welcome solutions from laws such as the introduction of the lowest pension for the users of family, age or disability pensions of Croatian defenders. We also fully support the provision not to obsess over rights based on the death of Croatian defenders who committed suicide as a result of a mental illness caused by participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia as well as other institutes under this law but also there are many other things that are not adequately solved and it is an opportunity to point out and begin to resolve because that is exactly what our defenders expect of us. Take only an example of the PTSD defenders for whom the law has set a deadline of about ten years after the end of the war in which the sick can apply for recognition of their rights. We think that this is completely wrong and that this brings defenders into an unequal position because there are also some studies, the experiences of American doctors that PTSD can appear twenty-five years after the war. This problem must surely be dealt with urgently and left to professionals and doctors to determine whether or not someone is sick and the causes of this disease rather than some administrative deadlines should be determined when a person can get sick, so that he no longer recognizes the disease as the basis for his rights. In such a case, defenders wander through the county defense administrations where they encounter reluctances or chicanings, and then it is no wonder that we have so many percentages of the suicides of Croatian defenders because they thus express their simple impotence against the injustice or chicanism that is happening to them. Or take another case from the report about the Croatian Defence Fund. The figures are listed but are not talked about the problems that constantly exist in the implementation of the Law on the Implementation of the Croatian Defence Fund. There are known problems about obtaining the right to share in this fund as one of the most controversial issues in the implementation of this law, but on these problems where people who have never had a gun in their hands or participated in the armed resistance of the aggressor have and gain greater stakes than defenders from the first line of the battlefield. This was often discussed by the club and representatives of the HNS in particular during the debate at the last meeting of the Croatian Parliament when amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund were on the agenda. I think it would be necessary for this report to talk about this problem that we cannot close our eyes to the same as it does not speak of a procedure being initiated before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, so that dilemmas and dubiosis related to the status of Croatian defenders, members of their families, and their stakes in the fund remain open. We must also mention again the issue of the register of Croatian defenders on which the Club of the Croatian People's Party has made its views very clear in the past, and this continues now where the publication of the register is again very clearly sought, and thus resolving many doubts related to the register of Croatian defenders. One page of the report dedicated to the register of Croatian defenders cannot resolve these doubts, and our club believes that, with all existing prohibitions to publish such data, there is no reason why regulations prohibiting the publication of data from the register should not be changed urgently if there is political will. The public's interest, especially the public's own defenders, exists and has been carried out countless times over the media. In addition, the report does not address life-threatening defence problems, health, housing, employment and the like. There are only some of the remarks that we believe are not in this report, and there should certainly be them, and at the same time as I said before, there are a series of data that are not crucial or important to the situation and position of Croatian defenders. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the Croatian People's Party club and representatives of the Croatian People's Party fully advocate that all laws concerning Croatian defenders comply with the real needs of our defenders and that such regulations are established and prescribed exactly what defenders expect from both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government and the Ministry and all other state institutions. So, the main objection to this report is precisely that it's not written in trouble, not to mention the problems that exist in law enforcement, but only to collect technical data. This is more than one statistical report, not the problem material from which certain initiatives to address the problem of Croatian defenders will be initiated, so we will not support the adoption of this report, but we believe that the initiatives and proposals from the parliamentary debate will nevertheless benefit Croatian defenders. It is also certain that we will not stop at these remarks and that the Croatian People's Party will insist on a fundamental change in relations with Croatian defenders and will advocate the consistent and full application of all the rights that they belong to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8620	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is in an individual debate, Mr. Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8621	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity each year opens new chapters to help Croatian defenders and to grow their standards. The first years after the Homeland War were pensions, disability, scholarships by Croatian defenders and so forth. Since 2003, much more than expected has been made to date, given that we have had war destruction, more than 6 hundred thousand exiles, aggressions in the Republic of Croatia, devastation of many cities and municipalities, restoration of housing units that are still going on, the launch of the economy and many other problems that have prevailed over Croatia. Congratulations to the government, Dr. Ivo Sanader and the Ministry of Defence headed by the Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister, the tireless Mrs Jadranka Kosor. I will say something about the recapitulation of costs by all rights in 2007 which I will also list, which is: permanent monetary rights, one-time rights, housing, cars for 100% of the disabled groups, pension insurance rights, health insurance rights, right to free textbooks, summering of children of Croatian defenders of weaker property status, employment of Croatian defenders, customs and tax relief, exhumation, identification and burial of victims from the Homeland War, marking the place of mass graves, memorial cemetery of victims from the Homeland War, burial of Croatian defenders with military honors, project accessibility of persons with disabilities, psychosocial program, execution of judicial judgments, co-operation with associations from the Homeland War. So the cost of all rights is somewhere over five and a half billion kuna. The Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders approved it for the 2007 school year. Seven thousand, as we've heard from the secretary of state and 45 scholarships, four thousand 779 for high school students, two thousand 251 scholarships for students, 15 participation of part of the cost for college fees of postgraduate studies. The scholarships were increased by 100% so the scholarships for high school students were 200 kuna, now 400 kuna, and for colleges were 500 kuna, now thousands of kuna. Participation of part of the costs for postgraduate studies remained the same in the amount of 7 thousand kuna. In 2007, it began with the work and foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. For the purpose of improving the socio-economic position of defenders, their families in the foundation's reporting period granted financial assistance to users totalling more than 5 and a half million kuna. I'll also mention self-employment measures. Self-employment measures for persons from the group intending to be employed and carrying out targeted independent business activities, the ministry pays a one-time boost of 20 thousand kuna. The aid is granted for all economic activities other than those considered socially harmful. The expected term of employment is 12 months in this case, and if the user fails to fulfil those obligations and resources, does not spend on purpose, it is obliged to return them with legally tightened interest. During 2007, 374 persons from the target group were employed by using this measure either through the opening of crafts, a company or by engaged in agricultural activities. Then, the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises by the Ministry subsidises an interest rate of 2% on credit programmes of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which are credited by beginners or those developing already existing activities. Encourage the establishment of cooperatives of Croatian defenders The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity provides monetary and other support for the establishment of cooperatives as a special form of small entrepreneurship that enables organised and professional management of activities and joint market performance. The Ministry is funding and coordinating the promotion of cooperatives, the education of Croatian defenders for entrepreneurship and cooperatives. Coordination between existing cooperatives, assistance in establishing new cooperatives. The selection of cooperatives takes into account the following criteria: land, sustainable development and business plan, good communication with local self-government units, expressed will for joint work and market performance, the possibility of increasing the number of Croatian defenders, the number of unemployed Croatian defenders and the advantage of opening cooperatives in the field of special state care. To cooperatives in establishing the necessary assistance and information is provided by the agricultural and fruit society of defenders, Samobor cooperative as a reference centre for defence cooperatives. The newly founded defence cooperatives then address the Ministry with a request for financial support of 150 thousand kuna, resulting in the opening of 71 cooperative times 150 thousand kuna. Encouragement of the opening of the cooperative has proved to be an extraordinary idea, as has been shown at the fairs of the cooperatives who presented their products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8622	Thank you. Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8623	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning, it is important to point out that the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2007 is comprehensive. It's complete and very high-quality. The report shows an improvement in the material status of Croatian defenders and overall concern. The Ministry of Defence's funds during the period 2004 to 2008 have been doubled to show that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry has shown its importance and concern to the defence population and their families, and in 2007 5 billion 622 million 477 thousand 820 kuna were spent in the implementation of the defence law. Most of it was spent on pension insurance rights, 4 billion and 168 million kuna. About 800 million kuna on permanent cash rights has been spent. 253 million kunas were spent on housing and all the most difficult people with disabilities were taken care of. 194 million kuna on health insurance rights has been spent. 42 million kuna for employment and other rights in slightly smaller amounts, but I must point out, unlike the previous law adopted in 2001, a number of improvements have been introduced and I will point out the most significant. A new legal institute for the lowest pensions for the users of family, age or disability pensions of Croatian defenders has been introduced. They do not depreciate rights based on the death of Croatian defenders who committed suicide as a result of the mental illness caused by participation in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. A deadline has been extended to apply for the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid and to recognise the right to a family disability after the death of a Croatian defender who died of the disease. It is important to point out that the Institute of Law Translation, which was the cornerstone of discrimination against all defenders, has been abolished. In 2007, a debt of 11.000 563 pensioners amounted to EUR 199 million, 895 thousand, 805 kuna, which was created by disrespect and non-implementation of the 2001 Law. It's an important piece of information that my colleague Kotromanovic should listen to, but here you can see it's not in the assembly. In August 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted new programmes, which are a programme of professional training and employment of Croatian defenders and children of the dead, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders for the period 2008 to 2011. This programme to improve the quality of life in families of the dead Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime disableds and Croatian defenders of PTSD for the period from 2008 to 2011. In 2007, 20 personal cars were assigned with adjustments for 100% Croatian wartime first group disableds. And let me just point out that 355 cars were assigned from 2004 to 2007 to Croatian military disabled persons who were to be assigned as early as 2003. The Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders approved a total of 7 thousand 45 scholarships. And the scholarships were increased by 100% and for secondary schools amounted to 400 kuna, and for universities 1000 kuna. Also in 2007 the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families started and approved financial assistance from 5 million kuna and 59 million kuna for the reporting period. The users of the supplies were paid 126 million, 277,000, 667 kuna for 2007, and travel costs were included for the medical commission, which is an increase of 23.25%. And finally to conclude. I fully support the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2007. The House War Veterans Committee, I must say at the end of my interpretation, has also unanimously supported this report. I am surprised today to my colleague Kotromanovic that he is so unhappy with the report, and he raised his hand as we all do that we are satisfied and that we support the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8624	Thank you. At 17 and 44, the time for 10 minutes will expire. It's Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8625	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We're a democratic country, so we don't all have to think the same, so there's no place of surprise. It would be insane if we all had the same opinion. Well, then we'd all be in HDZ or we'd all be in SDP, but thank God it's not like that. But let's get to the point. Here, it's late, so I didn't want to correct the wrong allegations, and there were, but now I'm going to tell you everything that's coming. As every year we have a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. So the right and place and time to give an assessment of what has been done or has not been done to improve the position of Croatian defenders in society. As could be read in the opening part of the apparition, and heard today from the government's representatives. The government is quite pleased with what was done and that's her right. She thus believes that the system of care for Croatian defenders is stabilised. I have always said in 2000 and 2004, and today that Croatia belongs to the order of countries that may have in the most comprehensive way resolved the status of its veterans. So it was in the 1990s, so it was two thousandths, so it is today. But in the execution of the pike. We have to admit that. So is that right? Is the system worried or is it so good? The best way to answer that question is to answer each individual’s own defenders. Any generalization and speaking on behalf of everyone can no longer pass. Personally, I wish I could agree with this assessment of the government, because this would mean that we are closer to regulating Croatia as a legal or as a state. But it's not exactly like that. On several examples, I will try to show that according to my personal understanding that organised society and state should look, which I agree that you do not have to agree with me, there is no need to work on a stable system of care, as much as it can be said that the system of care for Croatian defenders is destabilised because the source of sincere dissatisfaction is a significant part of the defence population, I do not say the entire population, especially one who participated in the defence of the country with the rifle. I don't think anyone here in the Croatian Parliament can say that most Croatian defenders agree with the number of defenders in the register, let's say where the number from 403,000 to almost 495000 was increased by the end of 2003 with a likely trend and a further increase. The explanations that we heard from the Ministry of Family and Defence, that the defender is so much because so many were listed by the MORH and the MUP as if these two ministries did not make the Croatian government the least said unserious. The government does not want to admit, and as is generally known to have been in the 1990s, it means during HDZ authorities as you always talk about SDP time in 2000, 2003. Here I remind you now of the 1990s certificates shared all those who, for example, received the Homeland War monument or those for whom the ad hoc commissions in civil institutions were specially formed gave such statuses. You know for a fact that the late president of the state, Franjo Tudjman, was far less than 380 000 Croatian defenders who responded to him with infidelity, yet he was also commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces. And now we're really in an interesting position. As his own time critic, I personally support his position on this issue, while the HDZ government wants its former president in everything to deny, and even in this. But it doesn't matter that much either. The most important thing is that such a register, and everything that comes out of it, came under criticism from those Croatian defenders who fought, they got nothing, they didn't even ask for anything, and the only thing they're asking is that they're not belittled with such numbers. That the system isn't working, and I've been saying this for years, well-intentioned, extremely well-intentioned. Witnessing the whole series of events of violence of the worst kind, where the perpetrators were found to be, and this applies to all citizens, not only to Croatian defenders, but to all citizens, despite the established diagnosis of severe mental disorders, means not PTSD but to severe mental disorders, and who were also recorded as persons prone to violence neatly had licenses to hold and carry arms. And after this multiple murder in Zagorje, where it was brutally murdered even the child of no one in power seems to care. The question is, who is this government protecting? Violents, unscrupulous types ready for anything, arising from war or not, are either ordinary, honest citizens. We have the last scandalous case that dominates the days on the front page of the paper. One of the leaders of the local defense association is suspected of serious robbery. We can say it's happening and it's really happening. But that man was put in a political decree in that place. Are you saying that this has nothing to do with the government and its politics again? One stable and well-organized system is based on honest and honest people, not on the other. That the policy of this government and its implementation are not well-founded by witnesses and examples of corruption in the issue of medical findings. Diagnosis 1 and 2 are probably just the tip of the iceberg. Let the rule of law clearly establish its own. But the imprecise law, the constant pressure on the medical committee, and the lack of control, that is, the unwillingness to implement it, has led to an attack on medical institutions, and we all know that very well. Just a few details. At the end of 2003, there were about 32000 Croatian wartime wartime disabled people. From 2000 to 2003, the figure almost didn't change. Today they're reported 44600. The number of people retired in late 2003 was around 20,000. The figure increased by 10% compared to 2000, meaning about 2000. And today, 38,000 are only 26% higher than the previous year. Most of this increase is based on the diagnosis of PTSD and other mental illnesses where no one really questions the patients. Now I'm going to say something not my words, so if anyone wants to correct me, let them consider it. These are the words of Croatian psychiatry by Eduardo Klein who gave an interview to one of our weekly students a few weeks ago. There's an interview here, so I can show it. Under the heading "Black Side of Croatian Psychology" Klein, speaking of the responsibility of Croatian psychiatry for so many false diagnosiss, says among other things, I quote: "Why so many false diagnosiss are written, it is as clear to you as I am. It's not political psychiatry, but it's a shame of psychiatry. Why isn't the government responding? The government isn't afraid of a real PTSD, it's a fake, and it doesn't want to react. The government is afraid of the same thing because it likes good chairs." It's a finished quote. I'd like that interview where Klein also says that real patients rarely use the disease as an alibi. Read it, you might realize that this kind of concern doesn't lead anywhere. A good system of caring for veterans is the one that will take care of the most disabled, who will take care of the families of the dead and the missing, and that seems to be good. And that will enable all other defenders to work and earn and thus make a good life for themselves and for their family, and that is where we have failed. Instead of pro-active education, schooling and employment measures, this government has taken exclusively passive measures and that is its right to understand each other. They are, in the short term, more receptive to the individual, but in the long run, neither he nor the wider community benefit from it. A special community. This best shows the number of newly employed Croatian defenders, which is decreasing year after year, which means that the reduction of the number of unemployed Croatian defenders on the stock market should also be read not as their employment, but as part of their increased retirement. And as we forgot in all these stories of the common defender, and the question of one of them is also an opportunity, because I promised to ask him that question, which is why the supply that was introduced in 2001 for ordinary Croatian defenders who are unable to attract, and who do not have HRVI status, which has not increased for six years, is worth as much as a thousand and 100 kuna. So it's just a fraction of what shows that there are no places of pleasure and when the government is talking about stabilising the system of overall care for all categories of war participants, it's a clean throw in the eyes. A better position in the society of Croatian defenders, but all other citizens can only provide capable and fair authority. A government that will be able to combat the permanent election of dissatisfaction in society, which is corruption and crime. With time running out, here's a good thing we had a report and as far as I'm concerned, I take it into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8626	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8627	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I must correct the incorrect quote of Comrade Ivica where he stated that... political people led by local HVIDRAs or associations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is absolutely incorrect because democratic elections are being held at both local and county level and state level. And for someone as a person they chose people and voted for them. What he did or didn't do will prove to the judiciary. We've done ours, shut him out of the justice system, let him say his things, and he'll never be with us again. And it is incorrect that the system is in any way disrupted by the care of the defenders. In your day, it was torn down. I'm just going to give an example, which is that you appointed Mr. Kurtov, your coalition partner with the expertise of auto mechanics, as the head of the PTSD Centre of Sibenik-Knin County.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8628	Thank you. If you've spoken to Mr. Pancic with a friend because you've been counseling together, okay, but if the other reasons for that address are, then it's not this... Here in Parliament we do not speak...... Yeah, right, don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, let's move on, it's no big deal. Here's the word, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8629	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, we have heard from the presentation of our secretary of state as well as the representative of the clubs to kill the SDP club supports such measures that the one who spoke on behalf of the club, and this is Mr. Kotromanović as the Croatian defender who was president of the Veterans Committee, and clearly read from this report that it is actually comprehensive, that it is supported in all segments and as Pero Mlinarić listed, all 18 of these things that make up the rights of Croatian defenders in all segments are supported in this report. Of course it's a thorn in the eye to all those who couldn't separate from the budget so much funds, of course it's a thorn in the eye because it's twice as big as in your time, Mr. Pancic. For 5 billion 622 million HRK 477 thousand against those 2 billion and 800, in addition to those days when there was no June for HVIDRA because they were followers of Minister Suška. On those days when the rights and sanctions were abolished, when the Croatian defenders were audited and disgraced, when wartime wartime disableds were called, and even Nojko Marinović as a general who was with the carpnel in his head, as well as Darko Beštek, as well as everyone else who had suffered trauma and would not point out and would not compare. The tables say everything over the years that caused it and what the consequences are. I'm not gonna force them on purpose and I don't want them to ever be consequences. Permanent care and care is defined in all segments, of course, that many more material resources are required, above all, to settle those spaces and items that have been dissipated, those people who have been disproved. In just 2007 6 million 999 thousand, but it's not that, it's for one year, it's administrative courts, municipal courts, county courts have reached a verdict. There's still a string of convictions. There's only eight hundred and one more thing in the administrative court about their rights. when the order comes, and for them the means should be provided. Also, a number of those who had been disbursed had to be compensated through previous budgets. It's important to say that you admit it, but say that one unsatisfactory population. The minimum pension provided for each Croatian defender certainly makes the population happy. For those, as I heard today say, there are those who starve. There can be no one hungry when they have the right to supply, a supply that is thousands and 92 kuna. In fact, you just have to file a request and realize, and in your time she was, as far as you assigned her, that's the question. There may be those who are afraid to endure today, but we educate them and say that they really have the right to use their rights in order to have basic needs for life. So that the population of Croatian defenders would not be damaged by any segment, it has been approached throughout all these years and the return that follows from translation from one law to the 97th and now and according to this law when translated, the differences should also be paid. For the past 2007 it was paid that of the essential features 199 million 859 thousand kuna for 11 thousand and 563 users. There is also a commitment in this year for differences for 2006 and the first three months of 2007 amounting to 222 million kuna. And so we will really support the population of Croatian defenders who deserve it according to those legal regulations and basics. If it wasn't for her, we probably wouldn't be in this Croatian Parliament discussing the Law on the Rights of Defence, who knows what law would be in force, maybe even the one from the NOB. It may be worth more to you than to Mr. Caine who is not here, and he never wants to compare that 42,000 and 520 Croatian wartime disabled people are receiving a pension while 70,000 NOB fighters are still on the payroll plus the victims of the war and are getting a total of... I mean, what are we gonna compare it to? [[You don't understand.]] With what values? With the value of receiving? Yeah. They're different receipts. I think we've made a difference and venture, that this is a stable democratic state set up on different oatmeals than it was for which these partisans fought. The honor of all those who have created those borders that fight anti-fascism, but among them there are those who have bled their hands on the innocent and who have killed without justice and justice, and today there is still a time when they should be sanctioned and punished. So when we look back at this law, we want to say that preoccupation and goal is permanent assistance, care and care for Croatian defenders, that through education, through PTSD centres, through every form possible as well as through treatment. I see that the spas in which the medical rehabilitation of 100% disabled people has been arranged, that even two have not responded from those offered to be supplied with that form. Also, what the secretary of state pointed out, in fact everything is definitely clear and loud, the tables are beautifully done. If only last 2007 only 71 defence cooperatives had received 150 thousand kuna support in order to hire Croatian defenders to create and supply them, to serve their families and themselves so that they could live on happily ever after. I would also like to stress that through this law, everything is truly presented, and it is our lasting concern and concern that we have committed to housing. It is true that 12,000 requests for a loan or a form of housing exist. It is true that we find a solution to support most of the loan with the help or cooperation of our banks, i.e. Especially post office banks like we used to say before or I believe we'll find a moment. And I would also like to point out that one part of the local self-government units deals with due respect to the population of Croatian defenders, secures space and land, equips it with municipal infrastructure, and the ministry builds housing facilities on it, while others are deafening it even though they have a legal decree to secure land, equipment land for residential housing units with apartments or for individual residential construction of all those who want to build individual buildings. We know that it is difficult in cities that are by the sea where tourism develops, provide large plots and large land. However, no one is asking to be the front row to the sea plots. Let it be secured in any part of the city, only to be secured, so care and care for the housing of that population will certainly be resolved as soon as possible. As HVIDRA of the Republic of Croatia, we, together with the Ministry, have often sent support and reminders and complaints and complaints and complaints to get rid of space, but somewhere they deafen and never respond and never resolve. We see that through these proposals in several of our cities there is a secured housing space that could emphasize them, but here I think there are only one-six of them. I would also like to appeal this way to everyone else to secure space as quickly and urgently as possible in order to provide housing as many people as possible. Through all forms of employment of Croatian defenders, the reduction of the number of unemployed still seems to be a great effort to keep most of the defence population busy and to work towards the needs of themselves and their families so as not to be prone to any other vices, but work is essentially the biggest cure for what seems to be stress and war stress. What I want to stress is that through the county it is clear that through measure 4, through measure 6, through measure 7 total employed by our 519 people. We see through this report that there are also state official institutions that do not respect the law and which do not respect Article 35 of the Law on the Priorities of Croatian Defence in Employment. I would like to stress that this should not happen, although it is evident that in the results of the applications, little application has a result, there are more who have given up or who have actually been refused that they were not right, of course under the same conditions as it stands. Here I will commend this report, which is truly comprehensive, which through the budgets of 5 billion and 600 million certainly provide a good population of Croatian defenders. There are other segments to be completed in the race, but first they have to get rid of those lags. I would also like to stress that, as we have seen throughout the past, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Adriatic Government Kosor has always been assessed by the unconditional assessment of the State Audit, so I think that all the funds have been properly targeted and spent, which was not exactly to be read in the previous period.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8630	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8631	To my second Djakic, here's a replica that he can answer, because correcting wrong allegations is not some kind of democratic standard. So when a colleague Djakic speaks of far more resources today than yesterday, it should be said that pensions are then not led by the ministry but by the Peace Fund so that it is about a billion and a half, 2 billion more and at the same time the number of users today is far higher than it was yesterday. But let's put that aside. The difference as it was yesterday and as it was today, I can join it. I can say that in the past time in the past government and in the past ministry there was no corruption in the ministry, taking money from Croatian defenders, and that was precisely the case at the time of Mrs Jadranka Kosor as minister. There has also been no corruption in the medical committees or she has struggled and today we see thanks to God we have her. If you see a table of suicides I wouldn't too much about, and she didn't change it just then he was guilty of knowing who and now we won't talk about it. I'm sorry too why Mr. Beshtek doesn't sit here at first. Somehow, you gave him up easily after he lost his conviction. I'm sorry it all happened, but there's HVIDRA with her fingers. I can also say that my law if it's already my law but I think it was the law that voted Parliament didn't fall in the Constitutional Court and this current law fell in that part about enrolling children when we told you not to go in, that it wasn't good at the end it fell. And as for the president of the Castle HVIDRA, I saw Mr. Strysa yesterday, I didn't see you. In any case, he seemed convincing, at least in this part when he talked about the pressure of HVIDRA's center on setting up certain people.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8632	Thank you. Mr. Djakic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8633	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here, I have to explain that it's always been the Ministry of Defense that's been running pensions, this is absolutely incorrect that they were being led into a pension fund. In fact, when we talk about curbing corruption, then there is neither color nor function, nor any position of man who would not be touching in today's political world and the judicial world, as it was with you when you were being protected, even yourself. I don't know where thousands of pieces of bricks in Bosnia ended up that can't even be found today to help Bosnian Croats in Posavina. The question still arises today. I don't know what that was. That was eye rub. No houses were built, nor were those who were left without houses helped. I don't know how your ministry worked. As far as I'm concerned... By your nickname, a man was killed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And by mistake who? Pere Kovacevic as a lawyer who wrote him the wrong answer. A man is exercising his right and today he uses that right but no administrative procedure has been carried out. And tell that truth as a minister. When you found out, when the officers revealed to you, you'd rather have your head blacked out, but you couldn't because you were stoned like a spider and you didn't give a man a hand and tell him what the problem was. If you had done so, you would have been a political winner over all of them if you had said that someone in the ministry had made a mistake when writing a solution and put a solution to the right to other people's help and his guilty urn and class. This was done by Pero Kovacevic and you yourself have filed criminal charges against him not for the case but for several more cases. Say it. Be honest and tell me how the Beshtek case happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8634	Replica Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8635	Dear President of the Parliament. Well, I really wouldn't want this pay phone to be used to politicize these very sensitive issues. But in your speech, however, you mentioned something that I must agree with. You said that now and still running a bunch of administrative disputes means people who still resolve their status, who couldn't solve it for a variety of reasons. Unfortunately, much of the people have solved their status in a strong way, let's say it in a non-transparent way. I will personally tell you from my father's application that it was '94, '93. They could get RVI status for 15 thousand marks if you weren't at war or for 10 if you were. And I urge you and I appeal to you and to announce to you the Defence Registry because there is no more honorable thing, there is no sacred thing in this country than to be on that list of people who have shed their blood for this country. And I'm inviting you to do it right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8636	Thank you. Mr. Djakic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8637	Thank you very much. Well, since you already have knowledge that someone was asking for money for your father's status then as an honorable man, as my fellow parliamentary representative, you have a duty and your father had this civic duty to report that this case has been enlightened, to arrest the one who asked you in an unjust way to someone who doesn't belong to him. When you say you agree with me. Yeah, it's true. 850 cases are still pending before the Administrative Court. There are also 2,000 more and some cases that today run administrative proceedings in the acquisition of their rights from the defense population that they do not have the exact date from when to when they were. They run an administrative procedure, run administrative disputes in order to exercise their right. Somewhere they neglected when it was time to take, change the old military book for a new one, sign it up, post office, and when they see it, they have it, and know exactly that their right is written in their register, military section, police or any institution they've worked for, whether they've worked for the service of state security or any other organization that was for the purpose and supports the armed forces as well as the MUP. I also want to point out that the problem we are dealing with is certainly not easy to see or to see or to suffer and the diseases of our fellow fighters over time culminating, in time who knows what is happening to whom in the head and what are the consequences of war. So to mention the Zagorje case, I think it's actually as terrible in this House as Mr Cain pointed out before. It's hard to measure what happened in a man's head. He did a series of crimes and it really was a massacre for every conviction. But once again, one needs to see that this person was still the one who set her free, who was raising her path to Knin. And now be smart about all of this one has to cancel the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8638	Thank you. Let's move on. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8639	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. From this report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, I would single out and actually support this programme of professional training and employment of Croatian defenders and children of the mortally injured, imprisoned and missing for the period from 2008-2011, in fact as an upgrade of previous programmes precisely because it is a shift in the problem of the unemployment of Croatian defenders, when we know that the percentage of the unemployed is 8.4% in the state of Croatia, and in us in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, 11.5%. I would also like to mention the programme today to improve the quality of life and the families of the dead Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime disabled and Croatian defenders, also in the period 2008-2011, which will be conducted, as the secretary of state told us, by collecting available data on the prevalence of primary and secondary trauma and by organising a review, i.e. by monitoring the health status of the four target groups we see here in the reports. Today I would actually refer to the PSP centers, or psychosocial assistance that were founded in '95. the years under the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a programme to assist the civilian and military victims of the Homeland War as well as their families. Namely, the centers were established in all counties and exist as such today with the fact that only the area of their activities has changed over time. For the first few years, the programme was exclusively, in fact, including some forms of treatment, while later this part of treatment and psychotherapy, or psychotherapy, was transferred to the infirmary, but one advisory work with the victims of the war was maintained and the social legal form of providing assistance to the same. In 2007, as we see in the report, the work contract was concluded with 141 professional associates, so that 141 part-time employees, i.e. 14 permanent employees, worked in the centres. When I speak Center for Psychosocial Assistance of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, he actually has six part-time employees, and he only has one permanent employee. The number of interventions is 3 thousand 653, the number of users is 2 thousand 587. Our county has its own centres in Dubrovnik, Metkovic, Vela Luka, the number of employees has dropped drastically from three years ago, although needs have increased and there is no social worker at all. When we distribute it into these three cities, Dubrovnik means there are two psychologists, one psychiatrist, one lawyer, that's the permanent employee, Metkovic has one doctor of school medicine, one lawyer and Vela Luka has a psychologist. So these are all employees who provide psychosocial assistance to defenders, or their families in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. And the work of this center is as follows: it is advised, it is talks with defenders and their families, civilian victims, then it is legal advice, it is group therapy, now the defenders organized themselves into veteran clubs, then it is marriage treatments. I've learned from talking to employees from these centers that there are more women coming with their problems. They come more and more often, come with family problems, and children from these families also appear. The part of the relief centre also includes a tour of the terrain, they go as needed. The defenders who come safely to feel better and those who regularly come are incomparably better than defenders who don't actually come to these centers. Thus, this refers to the necessity, or justification of the existence of a centre. However, there are problems, and these are problems, as I mentioned earlier, the problems of a few workers. I mentioned for Dubrovnik-Neretva County, I all think that if we were to study all these problems, we'd see the same problem as here, and the other thing is, the main problem of the Dubrovnik center is space. Up until two and a half years ago they were stationed in the Defence Office building, but the defence office building cancelled the accommodation when it was renovated without the possibility of returning, although it was known that the number of employees and the space was reduced significantly, and that so many buildings and spaces would certainly not need it. The center then received two rooms in the old hospital, behind the pathology department that had recently moved out. Thus, up until then, users, including employees, had to pass pathology, it was often inevitable to meet with all the contents of the pathologist’s work. It must be admitted that it is certain, definitely retro-automizing, not only the victims of the war, but also the employees of the center. On all of this, the media wrote, "Free Dalmatia" and others, but I'm not sure that actually those who should have gotten the information about it got the information. I also learned from the testimony of the centre's staff that they were trying to set up a meeting with the city's leaders. They also sent a letter to the Ministry of Defence, but they didn't get any answers. At one point, they were assigned some kind of space, but they couldn't accomplish it either. Therefore, at the time they were to move out of the Defence Office building, they were allowed to enter the bar in these areas where they are today and thus are still surrounded by completely unsuitable scenes of social cases located in that old hospital, unfortunately and drug-refused needles. And I really can't believe you can't find room for a center to help our veterans, our former defenders. Well, at least they deserve it. There are, of course, cities in Croatia that have come very generously to meet their centers, so we mention Pula, Zadar, Osijek, even in Zadar, I must stress that there are as many as 12 experts working in the centre. I don't understand why something like that can't be solved in Dubrovnik. In conclusion, we can say that there are two basic problems. This means increasing the number of employees, i.e. providing adequate space, because also from the employees' statements, they said that when they were in the old spaces, they stayed there for 10 years, the defenders were happy to come and do group therapy and they felt good, but most of them, in these new spaces, do not come precisely because of the inadequacy of these spaces, and two and a half thousand services are made annually. Therefore, the goal is for defenders to come and their families, the goal is also to provide them with better, because they deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8640	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8641	Thank you. We colleagues on this side sometimes get a little out of line, but we always do and praise the opposite side if she did something right. And these employment projects are certainly one of the more quality that this government implements with that I must say that in 2001 we, with a lot of pain and unwillingness to co-operate with different institutions in society, have just launched them. With the fact that it could be concluded when we only look at the report that the number of unemployed Croatian defenders is reducing the result of these employment projects. It's safe. But when we see a decrease in the number of unemployed and we see a decrease in the number of newly employed Croatian defenders at the same time. In 2003, it was about 11 grand. In 2006, 9 thousand 600, and in 2007 8 and a half thousand means this, while we see the third table, which is an increase in the number of pensioners, which means that the overdoing of Croatian, unemployed Croatian defenders instead of in the direction of new employment of overruns in retired persons, which is one part of the people certainly by age there and should end up, but there are a large number of young, relatively young people, the middle generation that is still able to attract and is in this problem. And this more about the PSP center last year when we talked about the report for that year, it was said that everyone, that all the centers were found an adequate space so I don't know what the problem is? Then how come Dubrovnik doesn't have it? ... Here's Dubrovnik. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8642	Did you ask for an answer or something? ... /Intruder: Yes, that's why I wanted to ask how to solve this problem because it's really a problem in the city of Dubrovnik./ [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Krunoslav Mesaric. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8643	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'll start from Dubrovnik first. In accordance with the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence Area, local, actually local self-government is provided. If the county where we were, the PSP Center was a tenant in defense. So at the moment before 1997, the i.e. In 1998, the Department of Defense was created. I happen to be with the defense, too, so I know the problem. As it came to get there right now, you're from Dubrovnik, I don't know, there's an extremely difficult place to find. That's how they explain it to us. The space for apartments, the obligation of local administrations and self-government to give land and municipal planning. This is what the esteemed MP Pancic must have met when he was a minister and knows that this is going very hard regardless of who is in power. Now that's the answer to that. The only building, the square in Dubrovnik, you know how much it costs. Here I am right now in Zagreb. Secondly, as far as registering an esteemed representative, Pancic, it's very simple. You said that in early 2001 when you were or in 2003, you were collecting data for the 403,000 register, right? Why didn't you publish it? That's when the Personal Data Protection Act wasn't. It was, you also had the same problem as us and that's that MUP i.e. The interior ministry and the Ministry of Defence are the only ones in charge of providing data on participation in the Homeland War. I mean, we're here once, we're constantly encouraging, we're recycling the same debate, and we know who gives it, on what basis it gives. Why don't the MUP and the MORH have official records or have what they have I think you'll have to ask the MUP and the MORH, not the Ministry of Family and Defence and intergenerational solidarity. And lastly, Mr. Pancic as minister, you know that supply is 33% of the budget base. The budget base when it's being determined? At the time of the adoption of the budget. And you're voting for such a single budget here in the High House. So the law has entered 33% of the budget base plus 50% for single parents, and that's what we do. As regards the report, the report bears the name Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers for 2007. I think most of the debates other than that that go in terms of changing the law don't have, against this report I haven't heard any correct, no fundamental, fundamental remarks. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8644	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8645	I know the government wants to be absolutely right. But you can't say you haven't heard a single fundamental mistake. And what these people praised or criticized, said, already pointed to certain mistakes. And what the law implements in this way not once is said that the problem is not in the law that writes because it can be imprecise, lean on one side or the other but the problem is often in implementation. And law enforcement is the most troubled by a certain circle of defenders besides the fact that someone can say that he is not in the law. But we know very well that this law is primarily about the victims. But you can't also honor anyone to speak in general about a defense population that doesn't find itself in this law for these or those reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8646	Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8647	President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. A lot has already been said in the previous discussions in the Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families during 2007. That is why I have decided to shorten my debate but I want to take advantage of the opportunity as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, but I would also like to commend all those who have contributed to this law, which came into force on 1 January 2005 with Minister Jadranka Kosor, Secretary of State Ivić and all representatives of defence associations who have contributed to one such law being passed. And this report for 2007 and what it used to mean for 2006 actually confirms that the law adopted was realistic and consistent with the financial opportunities of the Republic of Croatia. The rights that Croatian defenders exercise by implementing this law are not a privilege, because actually defenders did not expect or seek privileges, but only to exercise the prescribed rights that should allow them and their family members to live normal lives. This report, in all chapters, points to numerical indicators of rights achieved, but it is actually more important for all defenders to respect and such a relationship with them that is proportionate to their contribution to the defence of the Republic of Croatia, and thus contributes to the creation of a Croatian state that is now before joining NATO and the European Union. When we talk about Croatian defenders, let us never forget the defenders who laid down their lives in the defense of the Republic of Croatia. We must also not forget the victim of a large number of Croatian defenders who have been wounded, those who have been held captive and those who are being led missing and still do not know their fate. Individual incidents or excesses of individuals in the defence population must not challenge the generalization of all defenders, as there are also dolls in each crop, and most defenders are honorable and honest members of this society. As were their participations and contributions in the Homeland War. Of course I'll support this report, of course with pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8648	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Ivo Andric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8649	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I feel the need to say a sentence, two on the work of the Defence Committee, which has unanimously adopted this report, and what is most important next to us who are members of that committee, or members of the board, this report has also been supported by associations from the Homeland War. So it's more important that they supported it than we supported, because they are the users and rights of those who have come under this law and the exercise of these rights depends on the existence and members of those associations as well as their families. At the very beginning, I would like to commend this overall report, because this is the third year since the implementation of the new Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and the report shows that the system of overall care for all categories of participants and victims of the Homeland War has finally been stabilised. On average, 43769 users of personal disability with damage to the body were at least 20%. This is an increase of 4.45% more than in the previous reporting period, with 2.45% more funds spent than in 2006. For the family disability, 254 million 664 thousand kuna was paid for the basic right based on the loss of a family member, although 26.26% more than in 2006. Also, the provision of Article 78(6) of the Law gives parents of the death-sufficient defenders who are not beneficiaries of pension under the Pensions Act, nor do they exercise the right in their employment relationship, and during the reporting period there were 1676 users, which is 10.4% less than in 2006, with a total of 57 million and 408 thousand kuna paid, which is 11.8% less than in 2006. On the basis of permanent cash rights in 2007 there were 679 average users, which is 8% higher than in 2006, and paid in 2007 is 814 million and 38 thousand kuna, which is 4 and a half percent higher than in 2006. There has also been an increase in the number of users thanks to the signed interstate agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the rights of members of the Croatian Defence Council under this law. On their behalf, I also thank the Government and the competent ministry, and I also appeal to update the legal recognition procedures under this law for several hundred more members of the Croatian Defence Council who, due to certain administrative obstacles, still do not exercise their right. What is particularly needed in this report is housing care. During the reporting period, 1076 requirements were resolved, of which 86 requirements were resolved by granting an apartment, 990 by granting a housing loan for different types of housing. Of course, there are also houses for 100% disabled people, buying completed apartments and high-completion apartments for victims of the Homeland War, rehabilitating residential buildings, rehabilitating houses for 100% disabled persons, buildings in preparation for construction. In addition to construction, rehabilitation and preparation, the project will also help resolve accessibility for persons with disabilities. Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War at the Pension Insurance Institute exercise the right to an age pension, disability pension, family pension, minimum pension, and the right to remuneration in connection with rights acquired on the basis of the remaining work capacity. In 2007, 4 billion and 167 million and 982 thousand kuna were paid on behalf of all those Croatian defenders, and the pension was used by an average of 50561 users. The average disability pension in 2007 was 5068 kuna tax-free and tax-free, with an average of 38344 users using it. The family pension was used by average of 12098 users with an average family pension in 2007 of 7127 kuna. I also feel the need to point out that in 2007 11,000 and 563 pensioners were paid 199 million 895 kuna in the name of the debt obligation in the difference between the 2003 pensions and the first 6 months of 2004. It is certainly the part of the report that treats the pensions of members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families. Since the Constitutional Court’s decision has abolished Article 53. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families who had the advantage of enrolment in high school and higher education, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Rectorial Assembly signed an agreement on 27 March 2007 on incentive measures to enter higher education institutions in accordance with which universities in the framework of academic self-government themselves can adopt incentive measures to enrol candidates from the category concerned who, due to the gravity of the consequences of the war, have been brought into an unequal position with other candidates in relation to access to higher education. All praise is given to the fact that 8 thousand 160 students were enrolled in the higher universities of the Republic of Croatia in the academic year 2006 and 2007. I sincerely hope that in the next academic year this number will be increased. It is also for any commendation and a public invitation called for to finance the costs of preparatory courses for enrolment at higher schools in the academic year 2007/2008. for children killed to death by Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, children of the imprisoned or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War, children of Croatian wartime wartime disabled and Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The right to use free textbooks in accordance with Article 57 of the Law and the Regulations was used by 6 thousand and 34 users. Finally, I want to highlight the programme of professional training and employment of Croatian defenders and children of the dead, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008/2011. which builds on the previous program. The main objective of this programme is to raise the educational level of unemployed Croatian defenders and children killed, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, training for interest for which there is a need in local labour markets, as well as to expand their formal education according to new technological requirements and to provide money support to Croatian defenders who opt for various forms of self-employment, either on their own, or through cooperatives. For all the above, I support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8650	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8651	Mr. President... /The speaker was turned off and then included./...the Ministry made a report, sent it to this House, sent it to the Veterans Committee and sent it to all roof associations that came out of the Homeland War, what they were doing in accordance with the law and how much money they were allocated in 2007. At that session, the leaders of the Homeland War Association unanimously supported the report, praised its work and certainly could be completed for next year with new activities, but money should be provided for it. The 136-page report is transparent, visible, it can be read and seen from every kuna, i.e. all rights of Croatian defenders, and how they did so. The government will be pleased when the parliament adopts this report these days, then it will be satisfied, accepted by the defenders, accepted by the parliament, and only then will the government be satisfied with the ministry's work. In fact, the secretary of state said more or less what I was preparing, so he denied it to me, but today I would refer to, made my comment on certain discussions that were here. I am glad that all clubs have said that there is a need to give, to provide new resources, to help Croatian defenders and their families, that this law should also be enriched with the means so that it can be better implemented and that the problem of employment, education and the problem of housing should be resolved so that we do not have these points of 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16. Except for one MP who talked about the great privileges of Croatian defenders. So I would remind him on page 3 that these are privileges just under 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17, and only some will read it like this. Today, Croatian defenders today are solving their problems through the court, a psychosocial program to cost over 11 million, and then today we solve the problem for our and the 100% disabled, or we adapt this transition to public institutions, and mostly most of them are done, but where the floor is one, two or three, and what is the most regrettable that we have spent 8 million and 207 thousand kuna for the burial of Croatian defenders who died of the disease and who killed themselves. It's our privilege, it's the privilege of our colleagues from the Homeland War. And now let's not talk about the others, that today is not yet a day we don't know where our friends are, or relatives of the families of the missing, that they don't know where the bones are and that the ministry finds them today and that they're doing the funeral themselves. The number of members of Croatian defenders each time, and the previous report requires the Ministry of Defence, and we are all aware long ago, we can say that a few years ago the confirmations of the brigades were given by the commanders, or departments in the brigades, so they were constituencies, so they were corpuss, today it is only the right for years of the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the Ministry of Defence through their services. For that part there were still 500 thousand defenders, there were still 100,000 non-combating sectors, as war commander, I know there can't be 350 thousand soldiers, there's no 150 thousand non-combating sectors. It can't work, let them look at any army of the world. Furthermore, there have been several delusions, incorrect data as only the Republic of Croatia only cares for its defenders throughout the Maltese Europe, and we know where wars have been waged in the past 20, 30 or 40 years and which is an unarmed army formed in the Homeland War of the Malten Golfka won the 4th and 5th armies of the world or Europe, and then how many of us there have been. One day that information will be revealed correctly. You know it now, but for the public, then they'll probably all shut up about these things. It says the budget is 5% of the budget. I'm glad I heard today from my colleagues and colleagues that they're all looking for a bigger budget and more resources for our friends in this part. So here in this report alone I can only say that I can gladly accept it and praise it because it is what it is, it is transparent and visible to see each kuna, or how it is spent. It's the law. It's law enforcement, not some other document that's been discussed today. And certainly it should work in the next period, continue with these measures 4, 6 and 7 to encourage employment and the opening of new cooperatives to remove defenders from this thousand and several kunas of help, to try to return to work, to try to work and to think far less about the worst, and that is what is happening. Watch out between 400 or 500 thousand defenders in that crowd you always have a man who'll pull out a gun, kill himself or give no God to another. That's normal. In such a crowd, it must be so for our defenders, because we need to remember where they went, the beginning, the environment, and where they are today. So when they listen to certain reports of themselves being defiled and slandered by individuals, then no wonder what's going on. I would like to say, in the report the secretary of state touched, a member of the Croatian Defence Council. The Republic of Croatia, I will only talk about one part because I have no time, means the northern part of Slavonia bordering, means the border of Sava and on the other side is the Bosnian Posavina, which certainly did not defend itself means the border of the Republic of Croatia on the Sava River, but by military doctrines, means that it has the right to defend itself in the depths until, as long as the enemy has long-range artillery, it means 30 miles or more, we know that Bosnia and Herzegovina has been shelled and Zagreb in 95, not only at the beginning. Thanks to the defence that was in Bosnia and Herzegovina and members of the Croatian Defence Council, the border was not allowed to be on the Sava, that is, those forces that came from Slovenia after the signing of the agreements, which came from Serbia, so they were not allowed to attack directly Croatia but were amortised through the Bosnian Posavina. There are colleagues and colleagues of hundreds of thousands who have died, there are people without rights, they are in the Republic of Croatia today because in Republika Srpska they cannot live and I think we should hurry to finish this part with the wounded, and think about those people who have been there all along, meaning five years in the war, who have been, who have had PTSD, who have injured themselves, who have not yet had the opportunity and have no rights. Let's be sure that these people in Bosnia's Posavina, so I'm not going to say from Livna to Neretva and Central Bosnia, that they have amortised the great forces that would directly strike the Republic of Croatia and attack the border and where they do not mean what they did in Costa Rica, the Court, etc. etc. I am pleased to accept this and I think this is one of the very good transparent reports and I thank all those who have said that further assistance should be given to Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8652	Thank you. Mr. Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8653	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's as much as most of those who debated, full of support for this report. Equally full of support for what the Ministry of Defence is doing regarding the care of Croatian defenders. All that the ministry does can be said is a comprehensive well-defined, well-organized and financially well-structured programme. Certainly special attention deserves to be taken to the employment of Croatian defenders, Croatian defenders' cooperatives not only because these people work but because these people are socialised and that they can function better in society under significantly different circumstances compared to the circumstances of the war. The importance of education is very important for the scholarship of Croatian defenders. Ten thousand scholarships simply seem to me to be the most important, most powerful, the longest investment by the Ministry of Defense. Duration and achievements, care for Croatian defenders, children of Croatian defenders through education, through education is a lasting value of Croatian society and therefore this fund deserves me to say a full media affirmation. But what I often stress, the rights of Croatian defenders are based on the truth about the Homeland War, and that truth, unfortunately, I would say is organized by various shows, and it's threatened by various directors. Let us be sure that one part of the Croatian defenders, not a small number of them, such unacceptable thesis about the character of the Homeland War, about the criminal enterprise is experiencing also as a kind of stress affecting their mental health, which affects their stability, which affects the quality of their lives, but not only them, their families, their environments and that we must be aware of. One unprofessional, incorrect, unwitting message, one under-professionally designed show makes a mess in families, in the heads of these people and I would say in Croatian society. It seems to me that we are not aware of the complexity of the problem related to the mental health of Croatian defenders. It's a really complex problem not only for psychiatry, not just for medicine, but for society as a whole. Depression, post-traumatic war syndrome, neurosis, psychosis. And finally numbers. A thousand 870 suicides is a warning number. Every year 119 suicides, this means that both these days and in the next period by the end of this year we can expect that unfortunately something that is unacceptable will happen. How to confront this problem, how to recognize it, how to prevent it? It is not just a challenge for Croatian society, it is not just a challenge for the defence ministry. It's also a challenge for the profession. Someone said a nice sentence and I want to quote it and I often emphasize: "War kills even those who think they survived it!". The one who said this thought of numerous suicides and warned those who survived but who were mentally injured, do not rejoice because it is not certain that you will survive. Suicidals, various illnesses, cancers, and many other diseases are the result of the stress that occurred in their heads with serious, severe consequences. When we discuss this problem, then there are many uninformed people among those who spoke here today, and they said it was a specific Croatian problem, that there is no country in the world that is so isolated about its defenders like Croatia. And that's completely incorrect. The suicides among veterans today are real, currentity, not among Vietnamese veterans but among people who are leaving today and returning from both pension operations and the UN and NATO. Suicides among Iraq's war veterans, Afghanistan is not insignificant. Given the complexity of this problem, the challenges facing these societies, these NATO countries, one war, or something less, organized a year ago... how to reduce the number of suicides among returnees from peacekeeping operations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was one of the invited speakers and now this isn't even a place to discuss it in more detail but for all those who might be interested in it. A prominent Dutch publisher will publish a very soon - to - date book of the convention of papers that describes how to deal with this serious problem. Let us not forget that this is also important for Croatian war veterans. A thousand people have passed through the mission in Afghanistan. With which traumas, with which consequences, it is something that interests not only us as the Ministry of Defence, not only us as a Croatian society but I would say it interests everyone else who participates in these demanding peace operations. I had a chance a year and a half ago when the Croatian delegation went to Minnesota to hear a difficult finding, 50% divorce between those who returned from such peace operations. The U.S. Department of Defense when someone here said that no one invests as much as the Croatian Ministry of Defense, then I'll remind you, the Ministry of War Veterans is investing $100 billion is his annual budget. And there's something else that's not too much to stress and maybe it warns us that maybe we can do more not just through maybe the Ministry of Defense, but especially through the Ministry of Defence's cooperation with other ministries, so I'll say, specifically, the Ministry of Science. I am also the head of a scientific project that is related to trauma problems and which finance inter alia the Ministry of Science and the NATO Scientific Committee. There are many new methods such as "Stress Exposure Therapy", "Stres Induction Training", etc. which offer far better results in the prevention of suicide compared to classical traditional pharmacotherapy. The defence ministry does indeed do a lot and this is seen in a report on page 110 through the form of psychosocial forms of assistance, county centres for psychosocial assistance, number of interventions, number of users. Sumar number of interventions 70 thousand 311, number of users 53,000. What would be very good is to structure the statistics of these reports, to see how many interventions were requested by an average Croatian defender with psycho traumas. Regional centres for psycho trauma, statistics number 187,000 interventions. Significant financial resources. This all shows that the problem of mental health is the problem that remains as difficult as it was. But not just in Croatia somewhere in the world. Unfortunately, modern sciences dealing with these problems, especially pharmacotherapy, do not produce adequate results, and therefore it is logical and natural to seek new treatment methods. What I want to point out in the end, let us not forget that there are centres of excellence in the Republic of Croatia that deal with these problems at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, in Dubrava and some other institutions and Croatia can be and certainly in one part of the research is the center of excellence. And I think that the joint efforts in the future can be even more effective, not only in the interest of Croatian defenders, I would say perhaps in the wider interest of all those who face this difficult problem in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8654	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8655	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here, at the very beginning, I would like to say that when we have one such report in the debate, if sometimes a remark comes from the opposition side, it doesn't really mean that we don't support the report but that we want to point out for some more moments what we should do to make the care of the defenders and their families better and better because sometimes it seems to me that representatives of the ruling majority in the Assembly are not critical enough, I understand. But sometimes it should be critical, and if we are critical together in areas that are not well solved, then the next year when we have this report and the satisfaction of the defender will be much greater. In particular, this concerns part of health care. I think there's still a lot to be done here, and at this point, we can say that there is actually no specific health care of the defender, and not even that declarative. I also want to point out that defenders do not ask to be privileged, they just want to be healthy and get that health care they deserve. Unfortunately, I believe that if we talk about health policy for defenders that there is still no systematic monitoring and monitoring of the health status of war victims, that for many years there has been a multiplication of how many defenders, medals, wartime wartime disabled people, and a special number of PTSD patients. Here's a colleague, Cosic. He talked about it a lot. Mostly I agree with all that. However, what is also present with us, which is that PTSD has been very often, unfortunately, not a medical diagnosis but a social diagnosis and, through the determination of such social diagnosis, tried to solve some of the problems that should have been addressed in other ways. What is particularly important to emphasise is that we do not really respect the health policy of defenders, and that Croatian defenders are an integral part of Croatian society, but they are a very heterogeneous group that differs in knowledge and skills, by age, by work experience, and what is very important in housing places that are economically different from county to county. And then we can look at that health policy against the defenders from two angles. The first corner is the relationship of the health system itself to the defenders, and the second is the attitude of the health system to the profession. And what can we see? If we look at this first angle, then we have unequal health care available to the defenders, we have the absence of special monitoring of the counsel's health status, we have the neglect of preventive examinations as something that should be most important, we have a system focused on PTSD, and neglecting other diseases, we have not so little possibility of solving health problems in the place of residence given the specific problem of the defender. And secondly, which is very important, which is the attitude of the health system to the profession itself. Unfortunately, we have the absence of professional training of healthcare professionals to work with defenders, many of them do not know how to work with defenders, we have a lack of professional control, we have an insufficient number of trained medical professionals who know the defence population well. And therefore, what we, as representatives of this House, must ask for health system reform to take place at the same time in such a way as to reform veterinary health care, in such a way as to ensure equal availability of health care to all defenders no matter where they live and to develop a specific, tailored health care system within this reformed health system where, I repeat, it does not mean that defenders should be privileged, but it must be a specific and different health approach to them. And it can be achieved through several areas. In any event, additional resources should be provided in the budget, a special department of health care for defenders who would do so both statistically and pharmacologically should be provided in HZZO. The primary health care is very important, since it is the place where defenders will most often report, and we must go and look for a better education of primary health care doctors and other medical staff on specific defence issues, we must ask that preventive checks of defenders who are practically absent and, of course, as Minister Milinovic said otherwise to finance primary health care, so not only with chieftains, but also through specific projects that will be financed by primary healthcare doctors, then these specific projects related to defenders should be additionally financed. I also think that group practice should be one solution, because we have heard that mental health is actually the biggest problem at a time like this when medical offices are leased where one doctor actually covers a particular area, I think that group private practice on some printing grounds in which it would involve psychology and psychology in such centres would certainly contribute to a better solution to the problem of defenders. And of course I think that we also need to form regional centres that would right now be doing what is missing, which is systematic monitoring of the counsel's health status in order to see what the biggest problems are and then, based on these problems, create preventive checks,... populations within the defence population who will be most sensitive to certain diseases that occur more frequently in this population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then at the top of that particular health care counsel should be one national centre that collects all that data in one place and creates a strategy in which to educate all healthcare professionals, and non-healthy workers in the health care system who work with defenders. So I would conclude that one specific health care of defenders who are not currently in Croatia does not give special rights to defenders, but it ensures that defenders are given the care they have, as well as all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but because of what they have been through in their lifetime they also have the right to be given this specific approach. That's not what this is, we see in this report that it's missing, and I think that it should make an effort to change that in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8656	Thank you. And as the last of the MPs, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8657	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is a clue to what Mr. Zeljko said in many ways I will shorten this debate by taking into account the number of other representatives here, but I will also say that I believe that both the position and the opposition is in the interest of a high-quality solution to all issues, all life issues of Croatian defenders and their families. Well, here's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to offer to make certain proposals that could be incorporated into the law itself, which is certainly, since here I have experience as head of local self-government, these are the obligations of local self-government when building or collective housing buildings or individual houses, or building for Croatian defenders, especially for disabled people. I believe that this must necessarily include state-owned public enterprises such as electricity, because it is little and crazy that the law did not foresee this because these are the obligations of local self-government units, and the overall income of Croatian electricity industry, i.e. the business of the Croatian electricity industry itself, could also enable free connection and the costs of joining these buildings to the electricity system. This is what I'm saying, and therefore, because no local self-government unit, even though it has the right under the law, has requested a return of those funds. There is certainly a question that is not contained here in this report, and I know that here is former Secretary of State Mr. Ivić familiar with this problem. It is a matter of memorials for the dead Croatian defenders in Djakov where they still run not slowly but simply correspondence between the two ministries. In 2001, Djakovo was assigned to HVIDRA as well, not managing from, to a period of 10 years and since then, it has not moved since. Also, and here I hope that both those responsible at the Ministry and one and the other and the Ministry of Croatian Defence will also be held in this Ministry of Transport and Communications in any case... Considering that the building was under the Ministry of Defence and then passed under the management of the Ministry of the Sea and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing I'm going to ask here is a question that is unrelated so much to this report but it is related to associations that came from the Homeland War that work in the area of Đakov, it is a question of the Officer's House in Đakov, which is the 1/1 property of the City of Đakov, which is in 1991 due to the need for the defence of the Republic of Croatia and Djakov himself a day in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence. However, this House of Officers is now being given to the management of the private company Plekler and I see no reason for him to finally return to the City of Đakov in particular because there are certain associations from the Homeland War. Regarding the very health care of Croatian defenders, I find it entirely illogical that some Croatian defenders of the disabled of the Homeland War must organise humanitarian actions, concerts to save the leg, arms and go to treatment either across Europe or to America where our Ministry does not respond adequately. There are certainly and still a large number of unemployed Croatian defenders and this huge number of suicides and, as Honorable counterpart Cosic said, these suicides happen almost every other day. I believe that, and this is my proposal to install in one such report or law itself and the costs of legal assistance to Croatian defenders who have been indicted at the international court in The Hague because I believe that no foundation and no family budgets can provide the budget with the right to this real, real legal assistance. I also believe that this one report should include the costs of the trial of Croatian defenders for any war crimes committed here in the Republic of Croatia. In the end, only the report is based on the Law on Croatian defenders. I think there is, there is one thing for me that I don't think should stand in this report. I think it was supposed to be a different position in the State budget. It's these 2,000 kunas to celebrate 60 years of football club in Bogdanovci. I believe that despite the fact that it was the Croatian football club Bogdanovci were under occupation, but I believe that in any case one such request was not at all appropriate for the Croatian Defence Ministry and for this report is it? In this way you can open up possible and additional assistance to Dinam and Hajduk and all other clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-13-0.u8658	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And tomorrow at 9:30 we continue to work on the agenda point: The final draft law amending and supplementing the European Charter on Local Self-Government, P.Z. Number 56, it's an emergency procedure. Goodbye! Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2007. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the conclusion of the Committee on War Veterans, which reads: "A report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2007. "years." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour, 31 abstentions and 2 against this report.
