ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21109	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So, this year, we are discussing the field of chemicals again, and according to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Law that brought this House of the High before you is also the proposal for a national chemical security strategy. The draft National Chemical Security Strategy was reached under an interstate contract between the Swedish Institutional Support Fund and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations of the Republic of Croatia. Given that chemical security is in the jurisdiction of several state administration resolutions and there are certain shortcomings in the system of coordination of the competent authority and the implementation of the fundamental legal property settings of the European Union, the European Commission has recommended the creation of such a strategy to define the objectives and address identified shortcomings. The existence of such a strategy is also a fundamental basis for obtaining a two-year IPA pre-accession project to finance the objectives and measures needed to build an integrated efficient and rational chemical safety management system in accordance with the rules and practices in the European Union. All resolutions, governmental resolutions and others in society such as the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, the State Department for Protection and Rescue, the Croatian Institute for Public Health, the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine, the Croatian Institute for Labour Medicine and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, as the main objective of the National Chemical Security Strategy is to establish, based on extensive analysis and assessment of the situation of chemical safety, the main strategic directions and measures to establish an effective dynamic integrated chemical safety system that will also be fully in line with the legislation and practice of the European Union. This strategy also aims to prepare the competent authorities of the state administration including inspection bodies and the chemical industry in particular with regard to the challenges under the new chemical legislation of the Rich Regulation for which the implementation of the Rich Regulation adopted this High House this year also the Act implementing the Rich Regulation. This is a regulation, so just to remind the European Parliament and the Council of the European Community, which is a European legal framework for the regulation and use of chemicals and cannot be placed on the market unless it is registered with the European Chemicals Agency in Helsinki. The Regulation also rationalises the existing number of directives and regulations regulating the area of chemicals, which in the field of which the European Union has so far been about forty and replaces them with a single system. The purpose of the National Chemical Security Strategy is to establish, through inter-resorship cooperation, in particular through coordinated inspection cooperation, the basis of the Agreement on cooperation and inspection of bodies in the field of environmental protection, the development of all aspects of health and environmental protection against adverse effects, with the appropriate upgrade of existing protection systems such as general protection against dangerous chemicals, the protection of the health of harmful chemicals in products for human use, the protection of the health of harmful chemicals in the environment, and the construction of a system for the prevention of preparedness and response to chemical accidents. Based on the review and assessment of the situation in the legislation, the implementation of an existing IT system, the existing public information system is defined and proposed to take the necessary measures and cooperation between... Bodies to say she's been missing so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The concept of chemical safety follows the definition of the International Chemical Security Programme. That chemical safety is a management and prevention of the adverse effects of chemicals on human and environment that can be caused by short-term or long-term exposure to chemicals in the production, storage, transport and use and disposal of chemicals. Some of the measures or activities provided for in this strategy have already been implemented. By 1 June 2008, official assistance was established for users, etc. Help desk on the Rich Regulation, which is one of the objectives of this strategy and on the official website of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, a link containing the basic information on the Rich regulations and obligations arising from it was established, and the answers to 15 questions were mainly from the representatives of the chemical industry. On 11 June this year, the Ministry of Health organised an expert meeting concerning the application of the Rich Regulation, which was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Health and representatives of the sanitary inspection from the Office of the State Administration in Countys and representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and representatives of the chemical industry that export chemicals to the European Union. This strategy also analysed the existing situation and identified the measures to be taken, in particular in the section under the chapters of the legal acquis of the European Union, which are contained in five chapters. Chapter 1 – Freedom of the flow of goods, Chapter 12 – Food safety and fitness sanitary policy, Chapter 14 – Transport policy, Chapter 27 – Environment and Chapter 28 – Consumer safety and health. Such a strategy covered the area of chemicals used in industry, food chemicals, drinking water, general use items in the environment and waste, prevention, preparedness, accident intervention. The Pre-Accession Assistance Programme recognises the importance of establishing a chemical security system so that IPA 2007 is selected as a priority project to be implemented during 2008 and the strategy itself is a prerequisite and a basis for the start of that project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21110	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, the chairman of the Committee of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21111	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Health and Social Care discussed the Strategy Proposal as a home working body. As the proposer's representative pointed out in the opening statement on the presentation to the Committee of the Republic of Croatia to date has not developed and adopted the National Chemical Security Strategy or a national integrated chemical safety management system has been established. However, a series of regulations on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals in food, drinking water and air have adequately covered this area of chemical safety and have shown that chemical safety in the Republic of Croatia has always been in the spotlight and has always been given special attention to it. After the adoption of the Chemical Act 2005, which has jurisdiction over the protection of human health and the environment from dangerous chemicals has been moved to the Ministry of Health's economic interest is subject to the protection of human health and the environment. Most of the laws relevant to the chemical safety system adopted by the body in 2007 as a result of the process of transposition and harmonisation with the directives and provisions of the European Union have improved the national system of safe chemical management while at the same time making a proposal for a quality integrated programme for the establishment of an effective chemical safety system. The proposed national strategy is the basis for the establishment of such a system in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the regulations and practice of the European Union. During the discussion, the Committee members assessed that the strategy contained a comprehensive analysis of the existing situation with the measures to be taken and the objectives to be achieved in order to establish an effective and rational chemical safety management system in the Republic of Croatia. It was during the Homeland War that the foundations for human health and the environment were laid out to protect against the harmful effects of chemicals. As part of the toxicology service of the General Sanitary Command, through the organisation of preparedness in the event of the intentional use of chemicals for war purposes. As a legal follower of the toxicology service of the General Staff of Sanitation, the Law established the Croatian Institute for Toxicology, and according to the members of the Committee, the National Strategy will establish a uniform development of all forms of health and environmental protection against adverse effects, chemicals, with the upgrade of already existing systems of protection. The primary objective of the safe management of chemicals should primarily be to protect human health and the environment from the adverse effects of a number of chemicals. Furthermore, the debate warned that it is necessary to establish an implementation action plan with the specified deadlines and holders of certain activities and it is also necessary to establish a single register of all dangerous chemicals with the establishment of a single authorised laboratory for the examination of various harmful chemicals. In the opinion of the board members, the Croatian Institute for Toxicology as a professional non-questional institution with long experience in this area should be organised and appointed as a competent body for inter-resorship cooperation and coordination in the field of protection against chemical adverse effects. After the discussion, the board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption and acceptance of the National Chemical Security Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21112	Thank you. Any other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21113	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The HSS representative club will support the adoption of the National Chemical Security Strategy. This is extremely important because the Republic of Croatia has not yet established a national integrated chemical safety management system to ensure effective management and coordination between the different resolutions responsible for the activities to be carried out in this area. We therefore believe that the National Strategy for Chemical Security is an extremely important instrument for horizontal integration of different legal regulations and effective integration of implementing competences. As chemicals are found everywhere, regardless of whether biological, essential, neutral or harmful by health, it is concluded that responsibility for the different aspects of human health protection, from the potential adverse effects of chemicals, is found in the jurisdiction of different resistors. The creation of this strategy respects the basic principles adopted by the Republic of Croatia as a member of the United Nations and other international institutions, which it has accepted as signatories to conventions and protocols and international contracts. The successful prevention of management and preparedness of interventions related to 120,000 chemicals on the market is certainly a huge task and there is no country that could successfully solve all problems itself with existing globalisation and a major increase in international trade in chemicals. As a result, the pre-accession assistance programme also recognises the importance of establishing a chemical security system and, therefore, in the IPA 2007 programme, chemical security, it is selected as a priority project that will enter into implementation during this year and will help to realise the key measures of the strategy. We can certainly say that this area is extremely complex, it is in the jurisdiction of different institutions and it certainly requires both intensive and effective inter-resorship cooperation. We would also like to point out that the most important thing is to ensure sound control and control mechanisms, which means adequate inspection services and laboratories, which has not yet been established. Paracelsus' definition of the poison according to which all is poison and only depends on the dose means it is very difficult to distinguish dangerous chemicals from non-hazardous, because the toxic effect depends primarily on the amount and time of intake. Classical legislation primarily used to protect against chemicals used as poisons has, of course, evolved over time into a fundamental legal framework that protects human health and the environment against dangerous chemicals, substances and preparations. This approach to protection against dangerous chemicals has had numerous shortcomings, such as the distinction of so-called “distribution. ” the age of new substances, so studies and restrictions applied only to new substances, whereas most of the nearly 100,000 old substances on the market did not pass the appropriate measure of testing and hazard assessment. A lot of time and resources were spent on repeating procedures and evaluations at the level of each of the countries that generated unnecessary costs to the chemical industry without a greater effect and the secretary of state pointed out that the largest number of queries and remarks came from the chemical industry sector. It was very difficult to follow the fate of a particular substance once it was registered and entered the chain of further production, preparations and various products. As a result, after 10 years of research and negotiations between the European Commission and Member States, experts and industry have established a new legal framework for the protection of human health and the environment known as Rich. Given that there are currently no approved testing laboratories in the Republic of Croatia for testing dangerous chemicals, we at HSS consider it necessary to exercise the authority of these laboratories urgently in accordance with the principles of good laboratory practice. I would especially like to look at two segments, which is a study of food, an examination of water for drinking, of course, from the aspect of harmful substances that can be found especially when we talk about poisons and chemicals. The Food Act provides for the establishment of activities and the role of the Croatian Food Agency. The central role of the agency is to assess the risks to human health. Based on the Accreditation Act, an accreditation body was established, the Croatian Accreditation Agency in 2005, and so far in Croatia only 3 laboratories have been accredited in food analysis. Therefore, it should be clearly acknowledged that there is no harmonised monitoring plan in Croatia and a harmonised monitoring plan regarding food products is currently not being implemented. There is no monitoring plan drawn up on the basis of the results of the surveillance system and we believe in the HSS that this is a priority to be carried out. A unique body which would deal with conditions that need to be met by official laboratories and the authorisation of these laboratories is therefore lacking the coordination of analytical control activities and is not even set up a network of official laboratories that carry out food, animal and non-animal analyses and is not intended to specialize in certain tasks. So that's what we think needs to be changed. Authorization in accordance with European standards has started for just a few laboratories that have started participating in interlaboratory checks. The test quality control procedures, standard methods or methods of internal validation and general quality management of testing laboratories shall apply only partially to us or shall not apply at all and no interlaboratory measurement programmes have been introduced. We, too, have been warning at HSS for a long time that it is necessary to accredit a laboratory for testing genetically modified organisms. We have legislation, we have conclusions of the Croatian Parliament that prohibit the release of living genetically modified organisms into the environment, sows of such seeds, and products containing GMO ingredients must be marked. In order for such products to be investigated or to have certain evidence procedures, it is necessary to have a laboratory accredited for GMOs urgently and we expect it to be done as well. So it seems from all that I said that laboratories are still a serious problem because we still don't have them accredited enough and they actually begin to analyze and determine what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are eating because I think it's important that both citizens and of course consumers know what kind of food is in shops, on shelves and ultimately on their tables. On the other hand, we can talk about the problem of identifying chemicals in drinking water. The system for implementing the Regulation on the health of drinking water has not been fully established. This applies primarily to local water pipelines that supply more than 50 people who are not in a regulated public water supply system. If we recall the recent months of incidents that took place in Petrinja and Slavonski Brod, the question arises because of different levels of governance and jurisdiction who is responsible for why the citizens of the city of Petrinja did not have quality drinking water, or why did they drink water that was not allowed to drink for several days? Who's responsible for the situation in Slavonski Brod? Is it really a diversion or a human neglect of competent services? So we can say that the existing legal framework does not ensure the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to equal health protection through a single system of administrative and supervisory procedures, regardless of whether it is a private or public water supply system or less than 50, more than 50 or 50 thousand inhabitants provided by the water supply system. We are of the view that it is necessary to urgently establish a single legal framework for the integrated health insurance system for drinking water, which will be fully in line with the European Union rules, thus addressing the existing problem of many and mutually non-compliant regulations and competences, because all citizens in the Republic of Croatia are entitled to drinking and quality water. Since this strategy that we are discussing today really offers the opportunity to fill all these gaps in some way, we also think that it is certainly a step forward and therefore will be supported by the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21114	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21115	Here I think it's a correction that my colleague Petyr will be pleased with. There are not only 3 laboratories accredited in the Republic of Croatia regarding the quality and quality of food, but there are 20 of them. This can also be checked on the Croatian accreditation agency's website. And they are accredited according to norm 17.25 which also requires interlaboratory testing and validation of their methods. Accreditation is a voluntary area. Laboratorys cannot be forced to accreditation but I agree with my colleague, Petir, that it should work to establish a framework for them to be motivated by such activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21116	Thank you very much. One notice, the chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Ms Milanka Opačić, informs that the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament will be held today on 28 November at 12 pm in the hall of Stjepan Radić i.e. Number 133. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21117	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm already red, I haven't even said hello yet. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are facing a strategy which is crucial for synchronising existing legal provisions, existing sublegal acts and the entire organisation of protection against harmful chemicals. The chemicals are all around us. They are found in our food, in our water, in our body, in the subjects of general use, and what is particularly important are crucial for the economic development of each country. As a result, the protection of life, health and the environment is always in some way in force, or should I say, harshly conflicts with the economic interest, and therefore there is a lot of wandering around us and throughout the European Community about the legal regulation and harmonisation of all the regulations. We are always valid between the benefits of these chemicals and their health damage or the environment. We have also been involved in managing chemicals very early and we have so far been able to say good results, and this strategy aims for the future to strengthen everything we haven't done so far. And that's why the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports it. So, as there have been wandering in the European Union, let us only remember their directives and regulations, three key directives, one regulation, and we have already mentioned certain wanderings. At the very beginning of the Homeland War, we had a need to take control and control of chemicals under war conditions, so we established a special unit within the Sanity Command tasked with detecting, preventing and removing all toxic chemicals that could affect human health or damage to the environment. That toxicology service had major problems, struggled with a number of unknowns. Let's just think of those spiders that the Yugoslav People's Army was dropping, which served as a basis for various biological and chemical walking substances. Let's just remember the possibility of rocketing the box that was announced. Let's just think of the explosion in the deep ditch where the old war poison warehouse was found, which was affected by the fire at the time, etc. So a whole series of dangers from combat poisons were successfully solved by this Department of Sanitation Command. After the end of the war, his legal successor is the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, which is under the jurisdiction of the State Health Administration, in order to make 2003. The chemical law was moved from health care to the economy. As we liked to say to the foxes, we let her guard the hens. There must always be harmony between the economic resor and other resors, so in 2006 we put it back into the health portfolio and I think it was a good move and a good start of a new organisation, health care for harmful chemicals. But in the European Union it is also as I have said there has been wandering. We have followed and adopted all these directives and regulations and today we have a very complex system, a system that is different from the countries of the European Union. Why is it different? Because no European Union country has the same system of fighting chemicals, harmful chemicals equal to each other. Each country and within the framework of the European Commission has the right to have an individual approach, but with respect to very firm and strict directives and regulations of the European Commission. Why this strategy now? Because we have significantly improved the legislative framework against chemicals in recent years and we have included a number of resolutions in it, except of course the Ministry of Health here are also the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Environment, etc. Every resort has its responsibilities, but we lack one harmonisation of all these activities, and this is exactly the task of identifying in this strategy, and then giving guidance on the solution. The goal is very simple. The system must be effective. The system must be horizontally and vertically perfectly coordinated and strict competences should be determined for certain parts of this complex system. I'd just like to say a few examples of non-compliance that points out this strategy and that's what we need to coordinate very quickly. For example, as regards imports and exports of dangerous chemicals. One area very sensitive because imports and exports of chemicals must be closely monitored. According to Regulation 304 of 2006, a competent authority is required, so one centre, the top of the pyramid, which will control these imports and exports that we do not have so far, because these responsibilities are divided into several resors. The Ministry of Health and Social Care granted approval for imports, exports of dangerous chemicals, the Ministry of Economy which also gives for one part of these chemicals, approvals. Then an eyewitness to the Croatian Institute of Toxicology. Therefore, we have three competent institutions and all of this can remain so, but one body must be identified which will coordinate and which will be responsible for the European Agency for Protection against harmful chemicals on behalf of the entire Croatian system. Or let's say another non-harmonised area is biocidal preparations. Biocidal preparations are very dangerous. They serve for the biological and chemical destruction of harmful organisms in different areas of life. To assess the impact of biocidal products, therefore, these very dangerous poisons affecting these biocidal products on human health should also have an authorised laboratory which we do not have so far. We have laboratories that are technically and technologically and professionally up to date, but we do not have a legislative solution to their powers. It is also not yet authorised to provide for biocidal products and which will have to issue, in particular, authorisations for the placing on the market of such biocidal product. Nor has a single central register of biocidal products been established, which is particularly important and for this strategy there is also knowledge of this, but of course also suggestions for a solution. The measures proposed by each paragraph of this strategy for biocidal products are clearly indicated that it is necessary to appoint a competent body for coordination in both legislation and control, in the monitoring of biocidal products, that the Committee for Biocidal Products should be appointed in which not only members of different governmental resolutions will be, but also experts outside the state administration, who will then contribute to their knowledge by means of a much safer authorisation for the use and conditions of the use of certain biocidal products. The other two areas in which we have set up a good legislative legislation, but there is still some coordination missing. She also mentioned Mrs. Petyr. It's food and water. The chemicals in the food are a special problem and we have jurisdiction in several resistors today. According to the Food Law and other legal and sub-legal acts in the Office of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, we also have certain irregularities. For example, in food for residues of veterinary medicinal products and residues of pesticides, the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for, for example, all other contaminants, so for all other harmful chemicals, the Ministry of Health. That's, of course, good. That's how it is in many other countries. However, coordination should be established and accurately defined so as not to avoid the execution of certain obligations or their inefficient overlapping. We can also see in solving the control of drinking water. According to the Regulation on the regularity of water for drinking for water quality and safety, the Ministry of Health and Social Care is responsible. However, according to sublaws, the Ministry of Health does not control all drinking water, but rather for those in controlled water lines. For example, the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for tablewater, these are bottled table water and mineral water. There is therefore a certain need for synchronisation and coordination of these activities. As far as water safety is concerned, there are several other resistors responsible for the safety of the final product, which is healthy drinking water. For example, the Ministry of Regional Development shall issue a concession for drinking water. There is also one step in which strict control is required when awarding concessions with strict concessionary conditions. For example, water licenses issue Croatian water. Some water lines are excluded from such a strictly controlled system, these are small private water lines that we have, water lines for a smaller population. That is how inspection surveillance is divided and coordination between all these systems must be strictly established so as not to result in unwanted consequences because harmful chemicals in drinking water may have undetectable consequences. We have witnessed a series of incidents lately that will surely be reduced and removed when this strategy comes to life as a whole. The measures proposed by this strategy in the area of security of water are the establishment of so-called an integrated legal framework. What does "integrated" mean? Which will harmonize all the laws in the area of different resors that I mention the water safety system for drinking. Also, the new legal framework for a single water correctness system for drinking, regardless of whether it is public water pipelines, small private water pipelines, no matter how many groups and how many water supplying water. Of course, there are more of these examples. They are the result of good legislative frameworks and insufficient time spent in coordination, and therefore the European Commission has expressed the need to adopt such a strategy in order to ensure that this is all coherent. The Ministry of Health has set out this strategy here, but many resolutions participated in it, State Secretary Dr. Golem listed them, so I wouldn't repeat them, so the coordination has already begun with the creation of this strategy itself. The strategy is good because it has recorded all the existing and most important problems that are reflected in all aspects, and a satisfactory EU condition for the use of pre-accession funds from which what is behind the strategy will be financed and organised, and this is the action plan in which it will be determined exactly who and within what time-limit it must do. Supporting this approach to an integrated organised action of water, food and the environment from harmful chemicals, I support this strategy and we encourage all ministries headed by the Ministry of Health to see my action plan as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21118	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21119	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We have a good document before us that is happy to support. Chemical safety contains a number of scientific, technical components such as toxicology, ecotoxicology, risk assessment of exposure to chemical substances, which requires detailed knowledge of exposure to individual chemicals and their risks, as well as evaluation and study of the resulting biological effects. The legal acquis of the European Union, that famous aquis, determines the minimum conditions that each country must meet in the field of environmental protection and health from the potential adverse effects of chemicals. Of course, there must be no restrictions on free-cutting of goods, people, capital and services, but the latest scientific achievements and knowledge must be respected and just one such document relating to the protection against chemicals is the Rich Regulation that has been implemented, or adopted in this strategy. The authors of the strategy associate correct chemical security with the name of Dr. Andrija Stampar, the Croatian great, author of the public health doctrine, as probably the most spectacular export product of the Republic of Croatia of all time and the doctrine where Dr. Andrija Printar helped or to say, let's not be modest and let's say we founded the World Health Organization. And it is the World Health Organization that states that the most dangerous cases of chemical accidents and consequent poisoning can be associated with insufficient knowledge of the risk of a particular exposure to a particular chemical, as well as human negligence. Furthermore, abuse and poor management of chemical dangerous substances often leads to pollution and irreparable environmental damage and the World Health Organization says: "All of this can be avoided by proper education, by correct information because prevention is the best antidote. People, better to prevent than heal." Recognising correctly that chemical safety is not without science, academic Dr. Andrija Printar has therefore established the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine as a scientific lever of the doctrine of public health. It is a wonder that the authors of the strategy did not consider it necessary, in addition to mentioning the Croatian Institute of Toxicology established in 1997 as a follow-up to the toxicological service of the Croatian Army's General Staff, to point out to other institutions important for the development and operation of chemical safety in the Republic of Croatia, primarily to the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine, the Ruđer Bošković Institute and others. Let us mention that at this very moment, at the Premature Hall in Opatija, the Institute of Medical Research celebrates the 60th anniversary of its existence and that the opening speeches were made by academic Moshes, the president of the Academy, Minister Primorac and quoted Andrija Printar as saying that the condition for the construction and successful development of our health protection economy is a matter of health protection, and the issue of working health can only be successfully solved if they are processed scientifically. So the IMIU also operates at the poison control center, toxicology unit, molecular toxicology unit, hygiene, environment, etc. The nature of this strategy is that it is very general, that it is an extremely good review of the existing situation in legislation and organisation, i.e. we can also say the disorganization of the system in the Republic of Croatia concerning chemical safety. The day is also a bit dry, but necessary review of the existing European and national regulations and their provisions and as such a document will be a great help, a great reference to any person involved in the protection of human health, chemical safety. All legal acts and all elements of the system within the state administration and within the professional institutions are listed in detail, and all strategic objectives have been identified and identified. However, the measures that should lead to the achievement of these objectives are particularly in the field of dangerous chemicals and biocidal products very general and without concrete proposals for their implementation. We can illustrate it with the following observation. On page 17, we are talking about the authorisation of laboratories in accordance with the principles of good laboratory practice, and it is forgotten that first the competent authority for authorisation under that system must enter the OECD system for good laboratory practice and that the training of experts to authorise laboratories under that accreditation scheme must be carried out. Moreover, these experts must pass both the exam and become themselves, and get their own authorisation from the OECD to monitor the implementation of good laboratory practice, and this process may take several years, and how much information we have not yet started in Croatia. It is known that good laboratory practice refers to the system of laboratory management and control and research organisations in order to ensure consistency and reliability of the results as defined in the OECD Guidelines. It is therefore unclear why the Government has embarked on the adoption of a regulation on good laboratory practice published in the "National Journal" in April this year when the OECD document already exists as an international European norm, and let us remember that Article 73 is. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement specified that an effective quality infrastructure must operate in Croatia and that one of the conditions for joining the European Union is in full membership that it must be adopted and implemented in national legislation around 80, at least 85% of international and European standards. Therefore, who will exercise authority in accordance with good laboratory practice would most logically be the Croatian accreditation agency as a government agency, a government body that is also in charge of such jobs. It is also unclear why it went into the establishment of a system according to such a scheme when there is already an accreditation scheme under International Standard 17.025, which is not only European but international norm, so the ISO Standard, for which the Croatian accreditation agency is qualified and has already been implemented effectively. So why is the parallel system in place? The authors of the strategy seem to have asked themselves this question because they say, "The entry of Croatia into the European Union requires the introduction of equal norms and standards, as well as administrative and supervisory procedures and laboratory work." It is further said that, given that there are currently no approved testing laboratories in the Republic of Croatia for testing dangerous chemicals, the authorisation of these laboratories should be carried out by 2008 in accordance with the principles of good laboratory practice. How will this be done when this strategy is in the parliamentary procedure at the end of the 11th month, so all deadlines have already been broken. In this context, it should again be recalled that the Croatian accreditation agency has 16 leading assessors, 55 expert assessors and 79 experts on its base, and, if necessary, engage international assessors who are experts in specific areas, so that there is no need to invest more significant additional efforts in further education of experts to deal with chemical safety, but in the context of accreditation according to standard 17.025. In addition, the Croatian Accreditation Agency has been an associated member of European accreditation and full member since 2005 joined 98th and we have in Croatia accredited over 100 different laboratories and 50 other procedures in various stages. It is not surprising, therefore, that quality infrastructure with the Croatian Accreditation Agency is highly well assessed in the report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia, which was published a few days ago by the European Commission and so let us ask ourselves again why not use the services of those infrastructure organisations doing their job, which have successes and which they know how to do and are trained to do so. The shortcomings in this strategy are as are the authors themselves, that due to the nature of the problem and the specificity of the legislation, the strategy will not address areas such as genetically modified organisms, human and livestock nutrition, mineral fertilisers, pharmaceutical products, substances and preparations that are dangerous due to radioactive properties, industrial pollution control, explosives, etc. So when this actually sums up over 50 or more percent of the potential nox that threatens to pollute the environment and threaten human health, the strategy is unfortunately not covered by what is certainly not the problem of the strategy itself, but is one challenge put before the government to solve these situations as well. In conclusion, the issue of implementation of this strategy is raised, especially since the deadlines for some objectives have already been outlined in the strategy and I do not understand why the strategy has waited six months for the agenda, which is also not the problem of the ministry but the Parliament. There is therefore the impression that it is another document that is being adopted by Europe, not for the protection of all of us and our environment, which is a shame, because as I said it is a good document which, if successfully implemented in Croatian legislation and in practice, can be known to improve human health and environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21120	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21121	Dear President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Without the intention of reducing the efforts of the promoter of this national strategy that has been put into its development, it remains the impression that this document has been developed mainly because we have to draw it up because of the process of joining the European Union. And when a document is done mainly with such a goal, then you get an incomplete product that doesn't answer the most important questions that every strategy has to answer, otherwise it doesn't deserve to be called a river strategy. This strategy is unfortunately a very general document because it answers only questions about what we want to achieve in the domain of chemical security and why this is important to us, but these are questions that we have in school textbooks as well. And it can't be the domain of a state strategy of anything, let alone this activity that has a lot to do with human health and life, and, of course, the survival of a significant part of the economy produced by chemical products. This document, in addition to the finding of the existing normative state in the field of chemicals and the declarative position on the definition that we must take advantage of the positive effects of chemicals on the economic development and quality of life on the one hand and prevent their possible adverse impact on human health and the environment on the other, does not give those strategic answers as to how we intend to achieve this, who will be the perpetrators, in which time frames and how much it will cost us. Not in detail, that's what action plans are for, but in general settings yes. Despite all these major shortcomings, the Croatian People's Party club will support this document because it is a start, a necessary step in resolving the situation and we hope to improve the situation in the field of chemical security in the country. A step of kneeling legs, yet a step forward. If nothing else, the proposal for this Chemical Security Strategy has opened up to the end of our eyes and convinced us that we have a very, very much work to do in this segment of life. Although, I repeat, she should have said roughly who, when, how and with which finances. On the 70th page of this national strategy, the word "needs" has been used hundreds of times. This is the most convincingly used word in the proposed Chemical Security Strategy. After reading this strategy, the man is asked logically, and what, apart from now, is an impressive amount of legislation, regulations and regulations in the field of environmental protection, air protection, water protection, protection against dangerous chemicals, protection against the harmful effects of chemicals in food and general use, from the field of transport of hazardous substances and waste rules. We have a realistic, adequate solution in the sphere of chemical security, if five lines of text don't pass, and we don't have the word "needs." But still no deadlines, no executioner and no price. How long are we actually chemically safe then? It does not justify the fact that so far we have not had any chemical security strategy, that all strategic European-oriented regulations have been passed, starting only from 2005 to today. That is precisely why we should step up the action and activities on the chemical security plan if we are to catch a link with Europe that is far ahead of us in the consciousness and activities on the chemical security plan. I cite only some examples that confirm the ease and quite underestimating approach of the executive authority in the area. Based on the European Regulation on the import and export of dangerous chemicals from 2003, no competent authority has been designated in the Republic of Croatia for five years. Conclusion on page 13 of the strategy. Based on the European Regulation of Rich on the Registration, Assessment and Restriction of Chemicals from 2006 there are no authorised testing laboratories for testing dangerous chemicals in Croatia. Conclusion on the side of the 17th strategy. I'll talk about Rich in more detail in the individual part of the debate. Under the 2007 Biocidal Products Act, there are still five necessary rules for the regulation of biocidal products as very dangerous chemicals. We do not have a competent authority to manage the necessary biocidal processes or authorised laboratories for testing biocidal products. Pages 21 and 22 of the strategy. The 2007 Food Act did not establish a network of official laboratories that conduct food analyses of animal and non-animal origin. There is no single body to deal with the conditions to be met by the official laboratory. Education in the area of inspections is not appropriate, there is no manual or guidance for education which would be arranged by the Croatian education system for this area, and it is argued that the law does not provide fully adequate instruments for interresury coordination and management of an integrated food control system for human use. There is no single computer program for all public health institutions. Conclusions on the 27th and 28th strategies. Under the law which should protect against the harmful effects of chemicals in drinking water, there is a discrepancy of regulations and jurisdiction which does not ensure an effective system of protection against the harmful effects of chemicals in drinking water. Again, there is no proper education of competent inspections, an undefined system of authorisation of a water control laboratory. Conclusions on the side of the 33rd and 34th strategies. Under the General Application Act 2006 which should regulate the protection against the adverse effects of chemicals in general use, the relevant implementing rules which would comply with the European Union rules on specific issues, such as the Health Safety and Toy Safety Strategy, the market surveillance and import competences, have not yet been sufficiently harmonised, we do not have a system of notifying the relevant institution and the public of toxic and dangerous general use items found on the market of the European Union. Conclusions on the side of 37 strategies. Based on laws governing protection against the health of harmful chemicals in the environment, it is again necessary to harmonise the rules in certain areas and set up instruments for inter-registration planning, coordination and management. Conclusions from page 50 to strategy 52. The entire area of chemical safety best depicts the words of the strategy maker that the system of systematic collection and processing of data in the field of chemical safety has not been established in Croatia, because there are neither human nor material preconditions for such activity. After such a finding, one must wonder, if we do not have an orderly system of data collection and processing in the field of chemical safety, how on earth we will protect ourselves against the adverse effects of the chemical on our health and life. The prerequisite for effective protection is, of course, collected data and complete analytical treatment of all risk factors in the chemical safety sphere. Without it, there is no plan, no strategy, no effect. The strategy is an empty tap in the dark, dark of information and ignorance. And we definitely don't try to get out of it as soon as possible to live safer. Or that story is always left behind by other priorities, because it's not the most important thing in life, until there's an unwanted event with tragic consequences for health and life. In addition to all that we have said so far in addition to the said the fact that we received such an incomplete strategy in the Parliament in June at the 4th session of the Parliament. And while we know that many points have been coming to our agenda for two, three days now, this National Strategy has not welcomed a debate on either the 4th or the 5th, or the 6th session of the Parliament, but now at the 7th session, five months since the delivery to the Parliament. Isn't that enough proof that we're making a declaration, and in practice we're doing the other. So it's also normal that a year, two or more than the adoption of basic laws, we still don't have the necessary sublegal acts, regulations or regulations, that we don't have education in inspections, that we don't have material or professional conditions or to collect data, let alone for effective action to protect against the harmful effects of chemicals. After a terrible finding on the National Chemical Security Strategy that we have neither human, material conditions nor for the collection and management of data on chemicals and their harmful influences in our lives, the question arises how and will our inspection services be trained to control the use of chemicals in Croatia at all. Because, for example, Some producers of toys and textiles from China will properly register chemicals from their products, but it is not a guarantee that this certified product will enter Croatia, but some bofl, smelly and health-threatening. We can't today, and we'll give it tomorrow and when it's over. It's already a sophisticated problem to solve, and we haven't solved any banal that citizens face. What about the chemical that became a waste? For example. The paint residue in the bucket they left behind after the house was painted. Believe it or not, the answers to valuable and tireless activists who call them citizens and ask them questions like this are: "Unfortunately, you have nowhere to take care of it, keep it in your basements and warehouses." It is the only answer that guides and the conscious public has such a simple question of life. Does the competent ministry have a color answer to such simple questions? If there are, give them to people who are conscious and conscious and want to preserve their environment and health, yourself and your family and for generations who come behind us.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21122	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21123	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. The esteemed colleague has completely misunderstood this strategy by listing in the strategy everything that is positive as negative. So I'm correcting the following. He says the strategy is incomplete. This is the most comprehensive strategy in which more than 40 different institutions participated. It is incorrect that it is general, because the strategy goes into all details and detects in all areas what needs to be corrected in the strategy. He says no executioners and no deadlines. Of course, because if it does not follow an action plan that will be given by the deadliner. And ultimately, politicizing and an incorrect statement is that the underestimating position of the government is present on this issue. If a colleague had read the strategy, this is not true. Because if he had read it, he would have seen that 131 regulations had finally been laid down in this and last term of the current government. 131 regulations in the last four years. So it's not underestimating, maybe it's a little overrated. And precisely because they were brought in over the last three to four years, they couldn't be coordinated and they couldn't be fully executed. And that's why this government is bringing this strategy with which it will round up in the next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21124	Thank you. Before I give my word to the proposal's representative, I would like to inform you that now the exchange of proposals will begin to complement the daily work, and the materials for this supplement are also in the boxes. So we'll expand the agenda at one o'clock. Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21125	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Let us only explain a few things on behalf of the promoter. The chemical security strategy certainly won't answer all the questions, but it will arrange the area, it's one sure thing. In the European Union, we have listed, and in this strategy it is visible, there have been over 40 different regulations and there is no uniform organisation of chemical security in the European Union, and already every country does it in its own, let's say this specific way. At the same time, the laws of the Directive and the regulation of the European Union set up a legal framework, meaning within which the framework will be regulated by each country in the way it considers most appropriate for its country. If this has been done in the Republic of Croatia so far, come on, we can say it in a better way, we must also say through numerous examples that we have had in history. So I'm going to remind a little bit of the car accident with the phenophthalin tank jumping on Plitvice Lakes, to say what was going on and where the teams of the Croatian Toxology Institute also affected the Sisak-Moslavina County, but also in the area of the town of Zapresic and that I am not picking up all the major situations now. The record in Croatia is the one that is listed as a problem. However, it should also be said by the existing law on poisons, which was passed in the Croatian Parliament, then the Law on Dangerous Substances, then the Law on... Products, there is a register and records in the Republic of Croatia of dangerous chemicals, and what is said, when the jurisdiction has spread from dangerous chemicals to general chemicals, and this means today we are not only talking about phenophthalin or any other dangerous substance but we are also talking about oil, edible oil, we are talking about salt, meaning everything used in everyday households, it is clear that we need to do a comprehensive part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This national strategy has raised these issues and it has raised questions from the jurisdiction that has been told here today that it has been wandering, it has been wandering because it is not our Croatian specific instrument, it has been a specific instrument in Europe, so it has been for a time in the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. It was thought, so there was a time in the power of the Ministry of Economy, that it would finally be understood, however, that what is the point in Europe is that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health because health, in the area, therefore, of dangerous chemicals is now returned to the Ministry of Health in the first place. It should be said that the action plan that is mentioned, not only for the development of the action plan but also for the implementation of the action plan, is part of what we have applied to the pre-accession fund, IPA 2007 to strengthen chemical security and institutional development, so it is in strengthening chemical security and it is clear that this strategy has shown that the situation needs to be corrected in part of the coordination between the institution and in part of administrative strengthening, which is why we believe that this strategy provides an answer to exactly the questions considered not to be given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21126	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21127	The Honorable President, the President, the Government's representative, colleagues and colleagues. This strategy is actually an extremely important issue for our society, which is to protect the lives and health of citizens and protect the environment. It is good that Europe is once again pushing us to adopt the document that we should have brought as a regulated country long ago. In fact, it is a really important document of the National Chemical Security Strategy. In the modern world, we are all surrounded by chemical products that we are not even aware of, of children's toys, food, drinks, clothing, everything that the modern world uses today. In the last 70 years, the production of chemicals in the world has increased by 400 times, and by force and volume, the chemical industry is the fourth power of the European economy. Over one billion tonnes of different chemicals are produced worldwide every year while there are more than 100,000 chemical products on the European market and for the vast majority, no expert assessment of their long-term effects on life, human health and the environment has been made. Various scientific studies worldwide show that diseases such as asthma and cancer and various and numerous allergies are the result of a certain degree of harmful chemical properties of the environment. Therefore, it is about substances that pose a major threat to human health and life and neglect and indifference on the market of chemicals that are most often due to the ignorance or protection of the interests of various manufacturers and traders taking a growing toll and in the number of damaged and large financial expenditures for various recoverys that need to be carried out. Following this, the European Union has adopted the Rich Regulation, or a new legal framework on the safe management of dangerous chemicals. Establish this new European Union security system, so-called The Rich project also participates in Croatia. Unlike the old system, this new Rich project has a series of advantages as a legal framework against the protection of dangerous chemicals, above all to distinguish so-called. the old of the so-called the new substances in which strict studies and restrictions applied only to new substances, whereas most of the old substances, over 100,000 of them on the market have not passed certain studies and hazard assessment. It also cost a large amount of time and resources to repeat procedures that produced high costs in the chemical industry, it was very difficult to monitor the fate of a particular substance when it was registered and entered the chain of further production of different products. The project is one of the most complex issues dealing with European legislation and the aim of the project is to create a European control framework for chemical products and human health protection. Croatia must create preconditions to be part of this system, this must be our goal. Many international organisations have recommended that this complex area be covered very broadly in the development of this strategy, the assessment of the situation and the long-term development of chemical security strategy. However, our Government has decided that it states in its explanation that because of the nature of the problem and the specificity of the legislation, this strategy will not be dealt with among other industrial pollution control, substances and preparations that are dangerous due to radioactive properties and various pharmaceutical products. I find it unacceptable that everything I've listed doesn't come under the auspices of this National Chemical Security Strategy. Reading this more detailed document also shocked me that the proposer is the data, I quote: "In view of currently in the Republic of Croatia there are no authorised laboratories for testing dangerous chemicals it is necessary in 2008 to authorise these laboratories in accordance with the principles of good laboratory practice.". I can't believe why no decision was made in time to authorise laboratories to investigate dangerous chemicals and to wait until today with such a decision. Croatia still today does not have an approved testing laboratory for testing dangerous chemicals. Where are the principles of good laboratory practice? This National Strategy proposal is already half a year on the agenda, in the Assembly and is being transferred from session to session. And it is simply amazing that you are neglecting such an important document despite the fact that the European Union has estimated that Croatia has certain problems in the field of safe chemical management because of the indeterminateness in Croatian legislation. Once in the media, we had the opportunity to hear and read about the spilling of chemicals into the islands, the turning of tanks or the dropping of things into streams, rivers, and I am more surprised that this government did not consider it necessary and important to bring it forward as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21128	Thank you very much. Right here at 10.46, the time for 10 minutes is up. Mr. Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21129	Dear Mr. President, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Theophrastus Bombus Paracelsus, a Swiss philosopher, a doctor and an Androchemist who lived in the 15th and 16th centuries said: "All is poison, only depends on the dose." I went from it with the emphasis that it is very difficult to distinguish dangerous chemicals from harmless because the toxic effect depends primarily on the amount and time of intake. We are well aware that chemicals affect almost every part of human life, thus establishing a system of safe chemical management enables us to make maximum use of all the positive effects of chemicals on the economic development and quality of life and on the other hand of their powerful, potentially harmful effects on human health and the environment. That is why it is in the interest of every country to constantly take care and encourage the development of its chemical security system. Croatia has always been fortunate to pay special attention to chemical security thanks to its primary contribution to Andrija Pressar and its public health care, as counterpart Franic said. On the first days after Croatia's independence, the existing legislation, and in particular the Poison Act, has quite well regulated this important area of health protection and the environment. In addition, other laws related to the protection against the harmful effects of chemicals in food, water for, drinking water and air have adequately covered this important area of chemical safety. Of course, after the isolation, i.e. The achievement of independence of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia has continued to develop in the field of chemical security with the trend of increasing compliance with European Union regulations. In 1999, the Poison Act was significantly based on the European Union Directive 67/548. In 1997, the Croatian Institute of Toxicology was established, which was actually as Professor Hebrang said, a follower of the toxicology service of the General Staff of Sanitation, who during the Homeland War played a very important role in organising preparedness and responding to the intentional use of chemicals or industrial facilities for war purposes. In October 2003, the Chemical Law was passed. In December 2005, a new Chemical Act was adopted in line with two directives. First on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and others on the placing of biocidal products on the market. The process of transposition of the Directives and regulations of the European Union into Croatian legislation and in a very complex area of chemical security has also been accelerated by gaining candidate status for membership in the European Union in the Republic of Croatia. These are the Biocidal Products Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Food Protection and Rescue Act, the Health Protection Act, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances, the Law on General Use. I must stress that although the European Union encourages its members to establish and continuously improve their chemical safety management system in the acquis of the European Union, there is no provision that explicitly determines how and what needs to be done to achieve this objective. As a result, it is not surprising that there is a huge difference between the EU countries in the organisation of a chemical security system and the inter-resor coordination and governance mechanism related to the system. The European Commission has recommended the creation of a National Chemical Safety Strategy in the Republic of Croatia as a basis for establishing an integrated, efficient and rational system of safe management of chemicals in accordance with the regulations and practice of the European Union. This is also the objective of developing a National Chemical Safety Strategy and the purpose of the strategy is therefore to establish through inter-resorship cooperation a uniform development of all aspects of health and environmental protection against harmful effects of chemicals, with appropriate upgrade of existing protection systems such as: general protection against chemicals, protection against the health of harmful chemicals in products for human use, protection against health of harmful chemicals in the environment, construction of prevention, preparedness and response to chemical accidents. As regards the basic principles in the approach to the development of the National Chemical Security Strategy, basic principles adopted by the Republic of Croatia as a member of the United Nations and other international institutions have been respected or accepted as signatories of conventions and protocols and international contracts which are in accordance with the basic principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And these are: the principle of prevention, the principle of precautionaryness, the principle of wage polluter, the principle of sustainability, the principle of subsidiarity, the principle of monitoring pollutants from cradle to grave, the principle of cross-sectoral coordination, the principle of right to truth, the principle of international cooperation. Due to a large number of known chemicals on the market so far, and in order to ensure the safe management of chemicals and to protect human health and the environment, it is necessary to develop a quality programme for the establishment of an effective chemical safety system, and the best example for this is the adopted "Rich" regulation as a new European Union legislative framework for protection against dangerous chemicals that has been in place since June 2007. How the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure the harmonisation of existing laws and future legislation with the acquis of the European Union before the Republic of Croatia is an important task of adapting to the new system of protection against the harmful effects of chemicals. The Croatian Democratic Community will support this strategy because we think it is an extremely high-quality document.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21130	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21131	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By definition, chemicals are substances and preparations. The substances are chemical elements and compounds in natural form or made in the production process and the preparations are mixtures and solutions. The very definition shows how wide the area is if I mention what has already been said that there are more than 100,000 registered in the world, in our country of course there is less clarity in the importance of chemicals for all life of civilization but certainly more attention is focused in that direction on the harmful effects of chemicals. Of course harmful effects for human health and environmental adverse effects. There's a lot of talk in this House about protecting people's health, improving their health. It will be of course if God is to discuss the environment soon and environmental protection is also our priority and we can say thank God for the wider European environment we have a relatively well preserved environment. If we even mention that we also have an exceptional supply of drinking water, then the obligations are, of course, even bigger. And in the world, of course, you think that way, so that's how all the countries of the world are already and in some way in this context already in '92. By adopting Agenda 21, Chapter IX. UN conferences on the environment and development have undertaken in some way to underline protection from, and to put under the control of chemicals etc. Of course, there is a Conference on Chemicals in Dubai that in some ways further strengthens the same security, etc. For us, of course, it is important here from a nearby environment, of course, from the European Union where we are going. So, this said Rich regulation that Mr. Secretary of State spoke of so I don't repeat myself. But it would certainly be unfair not to mention that in our country, certain activities have not been carried out with regard to chemical control, so it is certainly necessary to mention the honorary doctor of the press, whose anniversary we celebrated this year. So, his concerns for public health and his enormous effect on the area. And certainly the General Staff's toxicology service played the same important role. This leads to the Office of Toxicology, but the effects are exceptional and, I say, legislative activity has been done in recent years, so that's what colleagues have been talking about before. So, the Biocidal Products Act, the Chemical Act, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Chemicals, and many others, many others are, and even the impression that it was really a number of laws that would intertwine and overlap. And that's what we noticed let's say in the European Commission. And if we add to that that, and what the Secretary of State said, to run for certain funds from this IPA fund, we certainly have the obligation to do this strategy which, of course, respects, because we have accepted the principles of the United Nations spoken of by fellow Kundić, and the following principles are the principle of prevention, the principle of precautionaryness, the principle of wage polluter, the principle of sustainability, the principle of subsidiarity, the principle of monitoring of pollutants, the principle of inter-resor coordination, the principle of rights to truth in accordance with the Agenda and the principle of international cooperation. Any of this principle could, of course, be discussed for a long time, but I would just mention this seventh maybe target in essence, and that's the principle of inter-resor coordination. Surely a good foundation, but this principle of inter-resorship coordination will therefore link it I would say, the main conclusion that can be drawn from this which would be to link horizontal and vertical inter-resorship cooperation, specifically link cooperation, for example the Ministry of Health, Social Care, Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning, Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry, Water Economy, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, of course the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. So there's a point in this between horizontal and vertical inter-resorial cooperation, and what are we going to get with that? We will ultimately get an integrated chemical safety system based on this inter-resor coordination in the cooperation of all participants, which is to protect against dangerous chemicals, protection against the health of harmful chemicals in human use products, protection against the health of harmful chemicals in the environment, prevention and preparedness and responses to accidents chemicals. And fifth, in the end, what is of course the essence of this national chemical security strategy and the integrated chemical security system that will certainly improve this important area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21132	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Zdenko Franić. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Let's move on. Dear representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have a really important document behind which strategic management of chemicals affecting the economic development and quality of life, and on the other hand have a harmful impact on the environment, food, water and human health. In addition, there are a number of European and UN conventions, intergovernmental forums for chemical safety, international conferences in the management of European Commission chemicals, etc. Our country has indeed, as we have heard, certain experiences and therefore all praises to the toxicological service of the General Staff of Sanitation which it also knew in the Homeland War when the Serbia aggressor deliberately used chemicals. Already, it was really visible today in the strategy and prevention and preparedness and intervention. It came from that service in '97. the year of the Toxenology Department. Protection against adverse effects from chemicals is regulated in the Republic of Croatia by a large number of laws from the Chemical Act in the last 2005. Then, in line with the European Union Directive, the Biocidal Products Act, environmental protection, health care on the transport of dangerous things, etc. This strategy really points to... for the sake of chemical security coordination among certain ministries, which speaks even more about the complexity of this problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals shall apply in the European Union as from 1 June 2007. It abolished the differences between old and new substances, which means that all substances according to established criteria should undergo registration and risk assessment if they are to be placed on the market in the European Union. New and old substances are in the category of dangerous substances. The European Union gives a legal framework, the Rich Regulation under which this strategy is established, but also gives every country certain powers. We have 100,000 chemicals on the market. About 5,000 in the Republic of Croatia. However, the registration of a chemical is really high and stands say about 30,000 euros. The question is whether we can establish control over trade, whether we can establish control over use, environmental action and human health chemicals, given how much capital in this globalised world is turning and what their economic interest is ahead of us. Knowledge of toxicological properties and dangers to human health and the environment is growing. More pesticides are being cast out because they are harmful to human health. The issue of assessing the harmfulness criteria of pesticide residues in human use food is also raised. There is also an emphasis of course on organic production in our country where there are great opportunities. The maximum amount of pesticides in food and in feed has not yet been transposed into Croatian legislation, and the plan is to be transposed by the Regulation on maximum levels of pesticides in food. We have the Croatian Institute of Toxicology as a professional and advisory body working under the Chemical Law, which has data on the production and placing on the market and use of dangerous chemicals. In the territory of the Republic of Croatia, no laboratory currently conducts testing of dangerous chemicals in accordance with the principles of good laboratory practice and experts are missing. In the Republic of Croatia, no laboratory shall be authorised to carry out the examinations which are the basis for assessing the biocidal product in relation to its impact on human health, animal health or the environment, including, of course, the methods used. However, the Register of Biocidal Products is also not prepared, we have no experts, but the system is diluted in this strategy and I believe that this will be corrected in the next period of action. The strategic goal is indeed to ensure a high level of protection of human health, especially children. Chemicals present in various plastic products and in pesticides in children may cause changes in renal function, changes in endocrine system and metabolism. It is estimated that a thousand of 55 thousand artificial chemicals are affecting the development of the fetus. The chemicals work directly or through a polluted environment. Each third toy imported from China or from the east sold in the Republic of Croatia is invalid. HZZO conducted an analysis of 69 toys accidentally selected in Croatian shops, 21 failed the laboratory test, which is 30.4%, some have an unpleasant smell, dropping color. Plastic toys, i.e. soft PVC, which act as tyres contain often banned phthalate compounds, and that compound must not contain any toys. Besides being carcinogenic, phthalates can disrupt the genetic development of the child. In the Republic of Croatia we also need control of clothing health, we are flooded with clothes and textiles from the Far East. The rule of law which prescribes health control states that it refers to products that come into contact with the skin or mucous membrane, or are intended to warm the body. There's no control after all. However, a strategy of good luck is working it out. In particular, this national strategy stresses that the existing legal system ensuring the health soundness of drinking water does not provide an effective system of protection against harmful chemicals in drinking water. I'm not going to repeat what's been going on over the past few years, public water lines aren't in the water supply system. So the strategy is visible what needs to be done. And finally, really the future would be to create a world where we live without toxic chemicals. It may be too late for that, but we certainly need to establish strict control for ourselves and for our children, and this is just covered by this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21134	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21135	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This year we adopted the Law implementing the European Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals. The law is short, on two pages, although it refers to an extremely important document, not only for the lives of citizens in Croatia, but also for the fate of a chemical economy. The law says that in Croatia there is a binding implementation of a European regulation called Rich, which is prescribed by bonds, deadlines and procedures for the registration and restriction of chemicals in the European Union. This regulation is very complex, and with its annexes there are about 2,000 pages, acacias, directives and guidelines that make up another 8,000 pages. It's a one-foot-high material. Of course, because of the volume of material, it is not with this law in "The People's News", but only on the website of the Ministry of Health. However, the main problem is not to read, learn, understand this regulation, but to not inform the economy that such regulation exists at all or is not sufficient. The large industry must be a little bit more forward, but the smaller ones who rarely read "The People's News" and a similar publication are completely unlisted in the new regulation with chemicals, European regulation. And the purpose of Rich is to protect the European economy, markets and people who buy and use chemicals in life, to protect through bans on imports from other countries or to produce unregistered, untested chemicals within the European Union. In order for the chemical to be produced or introduced into the European Union, the pre-registration, registration, or testing of properties and only that chemical which successfully undergoes the procedure will be able to be produced or imported into the European Union. It is necessary to register all substances which exceed the quantity of one tonne of the production of imports or exports, whether in pure form or in any preparation as a mixture of substances and substances in finished products from which those substances may be excreted. The basic thing to register is that chemicals, especially those old chemicals put on the market before '81. years that have not passed extensive studies, especially carcinogenicity, mutagenity and reproductive ability to register. All of them will have to go through the detailed examination process again, and only after the process is completed will they be able to register at the European Chemicals Agency in Helsinki and place them on the market. The procedure, of course, is not questionable because this would mean stopping the production and use of chemicals that have to pass the examination process, so it will be resolved within certain deadlines in which the procedure has to be completed, depending on the quantities of substances placed on the market, but also on the dangers of them, are the deadlines of 2010, 2013, 2018. What's the problem now? The last article of our Law on the obligation to implement the Rich Regulation in Croatia states that it will enter into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. And that most of the under-advised producers of importers or exporters of chemicals in Croatia have reacted, oh well, that's still a long way off, we're not going to be burdening ourselves with that now. Anyway, I can't even tell from the short bill without seeing the metering of the fat regulation. Our Rich law goes into effect right now. The economic operators should immediately be pre-registered and started in the process of testing and registration so that our entry into the European Union can be immediately with the product on the European market. If, with the pre-registration and registration procedure, it is only after our entry into the European Union that many will be able to put the key in the lock. I ask that the Ministry of Health urgently and in detail, but in the daily media launch this topic, inform economic operators working with chemicals that they have obligations right now so that if they export or have the ambition to export to the European Union, until Croatia enters the European Union, they will have a registration and a continuous roadway to the common European market. And all those who are not interested in export will also have to have a registration document in order to produce and sell chemicals in Croatia after our entry into the European Union. I repeat, the Rich Regulation must be respected and done according to it now, and not after entering the European Union, so I ask that the Ministry of Health clearly and urgently tell the economics to adequately amend this final puzzling provision of the April Rich Act. In addition, according to the Rich Regulation, the pre-registration process of the chemical began 1.6 and ended on Monday if I am not mistaken. According to unofficial information, not one or only one Croatian company completed the pre-registration process for chemicals. There are practical problems. The registration of chemicals can only be carried out by a company based in the European Union, so that the exit for our interested manufacturers or exporters of chemicals hire a foreign company that can do so or by setting up its own company outside. If an outsider is engaged in this job, then it should be careful to put in the contract a provision that, after Croatia's accession to the European Union, all the rights of the chemical registration belong to the Croatian firm. In addition, the chemical registration process at the European Chemicals Agency in Hellsinky costs tens, and for someone hundreds of thousands of euros. Once again, I warn that the Ministry of Health made a wrong provision on the validity of the Rich Regulation only since Croatia's entry into the European Union has brought confusion or delusion to Croatian chemical owners, so it is certain that some companies that do not know that they need to do something immediately, not upon entering the European Union, may have to give the key to the lock in a few years. Therefore, this confusion and delusion should be addressed immediately by formal correction of the Rich Regulation, but also by adequate information from the Croatian public on the jobs that should be done immediately in order to be on the market tomorrow. So far, I have not seen any quality information in the media that would be useful and instructive to manufacturers, importers or exporters of chemicals. Who needs to pre-register and register the chemical, which all chemicals, within which time limits, to which registration documents are to be submitted, who can do so for them, whether all chemical manufacturers must do so individually or can be united through representatives for some chemicals, how much it costs, which may be obstacles on the registration path etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21136	Thank you. Honorable representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21137	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In order to ensure the safe management of chemicals in the Republic of Croatia, that is, the continuity of chemical safety has so far been passed by the Poison Act and the Chemical Act. But because of... For the sake of more secure chemical management, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has developed a national Chemical Security Strategy as a basis for the establishment of an integrated and efficient chemical safety management system. [[You don't understand.]] The approach to developing a national chemical security strategy respects the basic principles adopted by the Republic of Croatia as a member of the United Nations and other inter-state institutions, i.e. as signatories to conventions and protocols and international contracts, which are in line with the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Due to the specific historical development of European Union legislation, there is no single and conceptual, or legislative framework on chemical security. Each Member of the European Union shall determine independently according to its national regulation, political and social development and specific competences and the organisation of the implementation of its laws, i.e. Regulation of the European Commission concerning protection against the potential adverse effects of chemicals. There is not a single country that has regulated all aspects of protection against the adverse effects of chemicals in one law and through the jurisdiction of one State administration resolution. Following on the one hand, the generally accepted principles and, on the other hand, the legal system of the European Union, a decision has been taken on the conceptual framework of the Strategy for the Development of the Chemical Security System, based on five basic areas mentioned earlier by Dr. Milinkovic. The main reason for this approach lies in the fact that legal protection against the adverse effects of chemicals for each area is specific as well as the competence for the general development of each of those areas. The last chapter is a horizontal unification of measures that will allow for the achievement of the basic objective, which is the establishment of an integrated, coherent, efficient and dynamic chemical safety system through inter-resorship coordination, co-operation and uniform development of each of the chemical security segments. The general framework for the protection of human health and the environment from chemicals is a fundamental legal framework for chemical safety. Classical legislation primarily used to protect against chemicals used as poisons has time-evaluated in a fundamental legal framework that protects human health and the environment against dangerous chemicals, substances and preparations. In European Union legislation, this was recently based on the 1967 Framework Directive on classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous chemicals and on a number of other implementing directives and regulations. The legislation of the Republic of Croatia has been transposed into the provisions on the reporting of a new substance, on the exchange of data on notified substances, on the assessment of the risk of declared substances, on the classification, packaging and labelling of hazardous substances, provisions which are not subject to the provisions of the Directive, the concepts used in the Directive and the provisions on the advertising of dangerous substances and the provisions on the safety-technical list. Given that chemical accidents occur regardless of all preventive measures, the International Chemical Security Programme recommends that each country should also establish a system of preparedness of interventions and the removal of the consequences of chemical accidents within its chemical safety system. In addition to ensuring the protection of the population in case of chemical accidents, each country should develop a good health care system in individual cases of poisoning, such as through the programme of the poison control centre and clinical toxicology. After 11 September 2002, all the countries of the world, and in particular Member States of the European Union, have evaluated through national prevention, preparedness and intervention programmes in the event of chemical attacks. The result showed that major accidents and terrorist attacks show that the system of prevention of intervention in the vast majority of countries is not at the proper level. During 2007, the following laws were adopted, i.e. amended and complemented, of importance for the establishment of a system such as the Environmental Protection and Rescue Act, the Health Protection Act, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances. In addition to these, there are a number of other laws and sublegal acts that regulate specific aspects of prevention, preparedness of intervention in case of an accident such as those related to armed forces, nuclear and radioactive substances, explosives, etc. At the end of the process of drawing up the National Chemical Security Strategy, it can be concluded that all essential preconditions for the successful implementation of the strategy are met. Protecting human health and the environment from the harmful effects of chemicals is a significant part of the legal gain of the European Union that Croatia must, not only transpose into its legislation, but also create conditions for their implementation. It is therefore clear that the National Chemical Security Strategy is an important instrument for horizontal integration of different legal regulations and effective integration of implementing powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21138	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, five minutes, the esteemed representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21139	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Once again, we would like to underline the importance of applying various conventions, resolutions, strategies, and laws that are passed in this high house. In the context of chemical safety, a Regulation on the limit values of air pollutants published in the "National Journal" 133/05 has been adopted. It's not your ministry, it's the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, and it's also talking about air pollution by floating particles like PM 10, and it's defined that a fraction of floating particles that passes through the input of the collectors of normon hrn regulations, etc. the effectiveness of removing particles of an aerodynamic diameter of 10 metres. And such particles really do not require sophisticated instruments, mass spectrometers, etc. It's enough to take a binocular and watch particles in the sky, because it's about asteroids and meteors. It's a clear mistake because when you convert fonts from one to the other, it turns out that micro, so instead of micrometers, you're left with meters, so our regulation is consistent with the system of the global network of asteroid observation and defenses against such attacks. However, in order for this to not require more seriousness when publishing regulations and laws in "The People's News", and if the system of Microsoft's Word and Microsoft Office is not good enough to do so, I would recommend to the general government of a small penguin, which is the trademark of Linux, the operating system as well as the use of the Open Office as an alternative system for Microsoft's Office, where such errors simply do not occur. Thank you very much. And it would save on the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21140	And I thank you for the addition. Does the government want a representative? Yeah. Dear Ante Plasimir Golem, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21141	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, I should just answer a few things. So it's possible that whenever anyone reads the text whether they understand it or not is an individual thing and it's very easy that someone can't understand the text that's being read. However, to say that the provision adopted by the Croatian Parliament, not the Ministry of Health, is confusing, it is okay but there is no need to change because it is clear why the provision has been adopted. You should say the following. In the European Union, the Rich Regulation is in force. The Rich Regulation is the law of the European Union. The Republic of Croatia is not a member of the European Union, although it will become very soon. But in a period of time when he is not a member, he cannot take over the European law. For this reason, the Law implementing the Rich Regulation has been passed, but it has been said that with the date of entry into the European Union... Why is he brought in now? There was no need, it could have been brought on the day of its entry into the European Union. However, the proposal that went in this direction went for a reason precisely to raise the public's attention because right now, it means the entire chemical industry and everyone who deals with chemicals, and who works with Europe means that they are exporting to the EU area, they have already met with this problem because the Rich Regulation is in force. Therefore, they had time. That is why we have also stated in the introductory word that has been done, whether it is enough, it is always more possible, but to indicate that they must comply with this Rich Regulation. So both our large manufacturers and in the food area where they are used have long registered via either their companies abroad or with companies partners of certain chemical substances or chemical compounds in Helsinki. So those who apply the Rich Regulation in the European Union are already in a way limiting, they will limit in two years. What must be said is that on the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union, it will be necessary for those working in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and products will also need registration in Europe. New compounds in the Republic of Croatia have not been observed and no registration has been attempted, but it should be said that the total compound is somewhere over 4,000 pages of chemical compounds that go into registration. So companies are also trying to register in a way that registers what is necessary and necessary. The Ministry of Health has launched a process and will continue to give meaning and importance, so follow up on what is happening under the Rich Regulation in the way it is done now and in the way that we will continue to try to activate the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Association of Employers and the Chamber of Commerce and all other associations in society that should help to get our entrepreneurs ready to work on the day we become members. Although it will not be binding in such a way that it will not be able to work in its own country. It won't be easy to have interstate traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21142	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21143	Eleventh, Proposal for a National Chemical Security Strategy. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a national chemical security strategy. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? This National Strategy proposal was accepted by the majority with 105 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21144	I now propose that point 13 and point 14 be brought together in accordance with Article 223(3) of our Rules of Procedure. Anyone mind, any objections? There isn't. So, I agree that we will discuss together: - Proposal for a revision of the Strategy and the Action Plan to protect the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia The Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government submitted this strategy on the basis of Articles 151 and 150. The Nature Protection Act. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which are in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. They're not being voted on. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. And point 14. that is: - Report on the state of nature and protection in the Republic of Croatia, for the period 2000 to 2007 The applicant of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government submitted this report pursuant to Article 153 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Nature Protection Act. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Do the proposing representatives want to further explain? Yeah. Dear Zoran Šikic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The report on the state of nature is the basis for the adoption, first of all an assessment of the already existing strategy and action plan of biodiversity and landscape diversity and the basis for the adoption of a new document. The State Institute for Nature Protection was formed under the Law on the Protection of Nature in 2003 and it produced a report covering the period for seven years from 2000 to 2007. We can say that there were 50 experts working on that document from the institution, other ministries, too, outside associates who were hired, scientists. So members of NGOs and that through this document is being established and processed means in all segments, in all sectors, the current state of nature protection in Croatia. In short, we can say that it is estimated that the Republic of Croatia is following the European level, European trends and European legislation when it comes to nature protection, but that there is still a trend in loss of biodiversity. Biological diversity is the basis of the Nature Protection Act, and that is what we had here last week, changes and additions to the Nature Protection Act have been voted, because the new concept defined by this law has defined biological and landscape diversity as the basic foundation of today's nature protection which has not long ago rested exclusively in protected areas, and today it is seen in a whole, integrated way. It is conducted multidisciplinaryly in relation to and co-operation with all other sectors. The definitely report shows progress in this area that the Republic of Croatia is making, so we can point out that, from now on, from independence to now, the Republic of Croatia has become a member of all relevant conventions in the field of nature protection, that the greatest progress has been made precisely in the area of legislation, because we can say with a very high degree that we are in line with European legislation. In this sense, we have only one regulation that defines "Natura 2000".", that is, the European Union Ecological Network". We can point out that capacity building means administrative and institutional works have also been done a lot, so that compared to eight national parks, 11 nature parks, the State Nature Protection Institute in the past period in all counties are established county institutions. This means that now an already quite significant number of 40 institutions that are directly, but are not the only ones, because this concept of integrated protection definitely introduces into all other sectors the problem of nature protection. In the meantime, we mapped habitats. With one significant piece of inventory of properties, and the current data tells of some 38 thousand property in the Republic of Croatia, although a complete job in terms of inventory, and behind it and monitoring, we definitely haven't done it yet. In certain sectors, such as I'll point out freshwater fishing. Why? Because the problem of ponds is particularly colorful for us, for the preservation of biodiversity is extremely significant, and there is a trend in the reduction of areas under the carpan ponds, that in the sea fisheries, it is indicated in the past, means a significant increase in fishing, that it is present and evident in the past 6 years and up to 50% reduction in agricultural areas, that we also find in the transport sector that 300 km of highways have been made, meaning over the past period. However, it should be pointed out in the nature protection sector that at the same time it was built on our highways and 9 green bridges. All in all, the key priority in the next period concerns only full harmonisation, and as regards the adoption of the regulation, means full harmonisation when it comes to "Natura 2000".". Accordingly, according to this report, there has been the creation of a Strategy of Biological and Regional diversity, respecting this new concept of integrated nature protection, based on the conservation of biodiversity, which certainly makes it a great pleasure that this is already a second strategy and thus, here, as pointed out here, in the procedure we have come to this and therefore the proposer gives two amendments concerning the name of the document. So content and conceptually, this is a completely different document, and in this respect these two amendments, they speak and actually ask for the name and the whole text to say, "Revision" is ousting and that this is actually a whole new document, and according to the second amendment, it will talk about the entry of power and the adoption of this strategy, that the strategy adopted in 1999 ceases to apply. As far as the strategy itself is concerned, it can also be said that the debate on the parent board, the Committee on Environmental Protection, that two amendments have also been submitted, which concern the names of the proposer again, for the reason that the law defines that it is a strategy of biological and landscape diversity, however, the Convention which is a member of the Republic of Croatia, the Convention on Biological diversity has a term of national strategy and since we are determined, however, according to the legal solution, these two amendments are required and we accept that this legal definition is used and that it is not used on behalf of whether it is a shortcut of ENSAP whether it is on behalf of the national one, meaning that it is excluded and we accept it. About 70 experts from all institutions worked on the strategy, including NGOs, to conduct a comprehensive debate with all sectors, that public insight was organised throughout the summer, that the final presentation of the strategy was held on September 3rd. I can only say that the vision carried by this new strategy lies ahead of you and given the major changes in the concept of nature protection, the establishment of a new legislative framework as a consequence of the accession of the international conventions in the area of nature protection and the accession process to the European Union has shown the need to see new strategic objectives which are defined through the preservation of overall biodiversity and landscape diversity as fundamental value and potential for further development of the Republic of Croatia. In order to fulfil all the obligations arising from the accession process to the European Union and to bring legislation in line with relevant directives and regulations of the European Union, such as the Habitats Directive, the Birds Directive and the CITES Regulation. It also fulfils the obligations arising from international agreements in the field of nature protection, biosecurity, access to information. In addition, ensuring integrated nature protection through cooperation in other sectors, identifying and assessing the state of the biological, landscape and geological diversity by establishing an information system for nature protection with a database related to the country's information system. Encourage the promotion of institutional and non-institutional ways of education on biodiversity and public participation in decision-making processes. They also end up developing regulation implementation mechanisms through strengthening legislative and institutional capacities, education, development of scientific resources, intelligence, development of funding mechanisms. Funding is also the weight when we focus on the feasibility of the strategy and compared to the 99 strategy that has been defined somewhere close to over 450 action plans here we focus on everything we have to implement permanently and it is difficult to determine on a time period but our determination is for a 10-year period and that means the funds needed to realise this strategy are somewhere relative to the current resources that are allocated to nature protection somewhere on average thirty percent higher. We do not think exclusively of the state budget but also through this way of funding we need to secure these funds but definitely through more significant use of the funds that are made through specific forms of tourism in particularly attractive, protected areas but definitely through the use of pre-accession funds, international funds. A significant project of investment in protection is being prepared, the nature protection sector with the World Bank will be expected to invest significantly after a very successful project covering karst areas. And I'm going to point out that still these funds have been drained so far and that somewhere or finished or 64 projects are under way that are being financed from that source. All in all in a 10-year period with all these other sources and increasing somewhere up to 30% we can implement action plans from this strategy as a whole. I believe that this is an optimal number of what we need and that number of these action plans in this new strategy is something over 300. Here, I thank you for your attention, and I believe that the debate will give new moments that we can through sublegal acts, even through the adoption of action plans, will definitely apply through the implementation, implementation of the mechanisms as best and effective as possible to protect nature in Croatia, and I ask you, on behalf of the promoter, to ultimately support the report or to adopt a strategy of biodiversity and landscape diversity with an action plan. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21146	Thank you. So, as far as the issue of the strategy is concerned, that's already said. The amendments were submitted by the Environmental Protection Committee. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction is a respected representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21147	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. At the 7th session held on 27 November 2008 the Report on the State of Nature and Nature Protection in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2000 to 2007 was discussed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in an act of 13 September 2008. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report in question as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that that report contains data and the implementation of activities related to the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity for the period 2000 to 2007 with guidelines for the next period. In accordance with the Act on the Protection of Nature "The People's Newspaper" No. 70/05. The proposal for a report on the state of nature was developed by the State Institute for Nature Protection and established by the Ministry of Culture. The report contains data on the state of biodiversity and landscape diversity, gives data and an assessment of the use of natural resources and the impact of procedures on nature, a review of the situation and an assessment of the legislative and institutional framework for nature protection, a reference to the issues of education, information and public participation in nature protection decisions and an assessment of the implementation of action plans established by the 1999 strategy and action plan for the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia. In his presentation, the proposer pointed out a number of significant changes that occurred during that period in the area of nature protection in the Republic of Croatia, with an emphasis on the announcement of the ecological network of the Republic of Croatia and the preparation for the announcement of ecologically significant Natura 2000 areas. The Committee discussed this report as a quality, complete demonstration of activities related to the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity for the 2000 period. – 2007 and shows a high level of implementation of the 1999 action plans. Since that period, the establishment of a national legislative framework in the field of nature protection and strengthening the institutional framework at both national and local level has been particularly highlighted. It has been observed that significant shifts have been made since the adoption of the Strategy of the Action Plan for the Protection of Biological and Coastal Varieties of the Republic of Croatia in strengthening financial mechanisms for nature protection and finding new sources of funding such as international projects, pre-accession programmes of the European Union, funds for the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. However, it has been pointed out that these shifts, although significant, are not sufficient and that an increase in the financial capacity to protect nature is necessary, because they also determine the human resources and the dynamics of the implementation of action plans. In this respect, it is appealed to increase the separation of nature protection from the state budget. The debate highlights a significant role in spatial planning for nature conservation and protection. As one of the positive examples of this interaction in which it is also highlighted in this report, the debate highlights the positive impact of the Regulation on the regulation and protection of the protected coastal area, National No. 128th of 2994 to preserve the coastal area. It also resulted in the final integration of the provisions of that Regulation in the 2004 Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. A positive increase in the share of protected areas in the total area of the Republic of Croatia has been assessed, but the importance of the adoption of the remaining spatial plans of protected areas has also been raised. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: "A report on the state of nature and nature protection in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2000 to 2007. A year.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21148	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Mirela Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21149	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, At the beginning of the presentation on the Strategy Proposal and the Action Plan for the Protection of the Biological and Coastal Varieties of the Republic of Croatia, I would like to stress that the SDP Club will be abstention in terms of the adoption of this document. The strategy and action plan for the protection of the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia should be a fundamental document of nature protection. I remind you, its creation of a request for the Nature Protection Act, Article 151. The Convention on Biodiversity of Article 6 and, of course, the European Union through a national programme for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and this document is expressed on the basis of the report on the state of nature and nature protection in the Republic of Croatia. It is impossible to notice at first sight that the content of this document is almost the same as that of the report. The difference is that the Strategy also covers the areas of georaznolicism, energy and mining, which in any case deserves praise and, however, the importance of monitoring and evaluation is very briefly highlighted. Unlike the report, the strategy does not cover the areas of gathering of mushrooms, plants and animals. Each area of the strategy has been processed in the same way, with a description of the state of play, which is mostly taken over from the report, and a strategic objective, strategic guidelines and action plans. What concerns is the indifference or unfortunately the reality of the authors of the strategy, which states themselves that it is very unlikely to implement all these action plans. In addition to this observation on the optimism of the strategy at the SDP Club, we believe that it was necessary in the field of the ecological network of the Republic of Croatia and the Natura 2000 network to indicate among the action plans the completion of the Emerald Network proposal for Croatia and what is not mentioned in this document at all. In addition, it is necessary to specify a plan for the adoption of a regulation on internationally ecologically important areas, which is also not mentioned in this document. In the field of wildlife, it is necessary to highlight the need for active involvement of local population in nature protection issues as well as the continuation of the establishment of a national system of monitoring of biodiversity. In the area of domestic properties, it is necessary to require the maintenance and development of the Croatian plant gene banks and the establishment of the same for protected indigenous breeds, to encourage the inclusion of domesticated properties in the tourist offer of national parks and parks of nature and to restore the work of the commission for original breeds, with the coordination of competent institutions. As regards foreign species, it is necessary to request the establishment of a technical advisory task force, on the subject of invasive alochton species, and to regulate the management of balancing waters with ships. We believe that in the area of forestry it is necessary to include the necessary speedy demining, ecological network and Natura 2000 networks among the action plans. As far as hunting is concerned, it is necessary to provide for effective mechanisms to address the problem of poaching and not to appear in action plans. We also consider it necessary in the field of marine fisheries, it is necessary to provide for measures to protect the refrigeration site and reduce fish fishing. In the area of tourism, with praise for several eco-tourism action plans, we believe it is necessary to develop environmental standards in the field of waste management and waste water to stop the mass pollution of nature by tourists, and in the area of education it is necessary to adopt an education strategy on nature protection. When it comes to the evaluation mechanisms of the implementation of the strategy, we believe that it would be good to reduce the period between the production and the report on the state of the nature of the strategy, which is worth the strategy, and for the short-term action plans, to provide for a different form of evaluation, which would increase the pressure on the implementation of these action plans or on the quality of implementation of them. There is also no mention of the issue of illegal poison disposal in nature in the strategy. This is a really big problem that would have to be covered by this strategy, it is a practice practiced by hunters, farmers and others, and the danger of the deadly consequences of men too, and in terms of walkers, children, tourists, hikers and the like. The poison left on the ground in nature in the form of poisoned softs, uncontrollably enters the food chain and so toxicly affects the soil and its environment, microflores and microfaunas, kills the game that feeds on meat, birds that are on top of the food chain, such as predators, scavengers, etc., and kills both domestic animals, dogs, cats and the like. Dead poisoned animals are the source of further transmission and spread of poison to other animals that find them and whose food they feed. What is surprising is this, although this problem created a commission in the Ministry of Culture in the Office for the Protection of Nature, the members of that commission did not consider it necessary to put this problem into a strategy just as illegal disposal of poison in nature was not mentioned in the report. If we compare the 1999 strategy to the report, it is evident that most of the imagined ones are not fulfilled. Unfortunately, only what required minimal financial investments and... Suggestions whose adoption cost nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The action plans that have been fulfilled are mainly those that push certain lobbys such as forest and hunting. For example, the big beast management action plan was interesting for the hunting lobby and was adopted in this regard. The main reason why we will be restrained under this document is the question of what is the purpose of the strategy when there are no guarantees and there is neither the political will to implement it. Namely, if the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is also proposing this document, does not stand firmly behind it, without the figure in its pocket the whole effort to draw up this strategy will not make any sense. I recall a total of 315 action plans set out in the previous strategy not implemented 147. In part, 150 were implemented while the miserable 18 plans were successfully implemented. It wasn't implemented because there weren't enough people or enough resources. We can be sure now that most of the action plans in this strategy will not be realised and one of the reasons is that they are not sufficiently defined. For example, in some places action plans are at the same level as strategic guidelines. Thus, Chapter 3.1.1.1 states: Develop basic management documents for protected areas. In 3.1.1.5.: Improve the management system of protected areas. In 3.1.1.1.: Make and bring management plans for national parks and nature parks they do not have yet. In 3.1.1.2.1.: Complete the initial revision of existing protected areas. The first two are strategic guidelines, and the last two are action plans not to say that nobody would know what the guidance is and what the plan is. In addition, it concerns that the previous strategy is conceived for a period of 5 years and the implementation report refers to the period from 2000 to 2007. What does that mean? This means that the new strategy we are discussing today is two years late. NGOs have also warned us about the weaknesses of the strategy in the section concerning education, institutional and non-institutional, biodiversity and its protection of conservation and the role of civil society associations in this area. In addition to increasing the role of NGOs in education to protect biodiversity, it is also necessary to encourage the development of interdisciplinary, undergraduate and postgraduate studies related to the preservation of biodiversity, governance and new technologies. We also stress that in both documents, especially in the strategy, there is almost no attention to the problem of impoverishing the biodiversity of the submarines except for the simultaneous mention of the problem of invasive algae, caulerpe taxipholi and caulerpe racimose. The problem of polluting submarines with solid indegradable or hard-to-degradable materials is not mentioned at all as well as chemical substances spilling into the sea from boats of sailors, cruisers and others. The problem of invasive algae from the point of view of protection and removal, preventing the spread to other larger areas is primarily insufficient financial support by the state. If millions of resources are allocated to the disposal and recovery of black spots on land, it is not logical not to think about the submarine at all. Unfortunately, the state often finance projects that are extremely speculative in terms of not only the benefits of such a project, its real realization, which means that it is both a synergy and a way of financing such projects. Finally, although at the SDP Club, we feel it is necessary to welcome the adoption of the strategy, unfortunately with two years of delay, we are stressing that it is not acceptable for such a document to be adopted declaratively without a real desire for the strategy to be implemented and that certain areas in this document could nevertheless be significantly better processed. In this respect, the SDP Club will be abstention when voting on this document. Now, as far as the report is concerned, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support the adoption of this document. The report on the state of nature and nature protection in the Republic of Croatia is a document that analyses and values action plans, a national strategy for the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity adopted in 1999 and sets out strategic guidelines for the revision of that strategy. According to these guidelines, a new i.e. Revised as the strategy and action plan for the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity say. What we consider a positive side of this report is that it is realistic that it is a system of nature protection, biological and landscape diversity in Croatia does not look through pink glasses and acknowledges the sin of state structures that have made an extremely little effort to realise the pre-planned action plans. The report is divided into 4 parts: 1st biological and landscape diversity, 2nd natural goods and procedures in nature, 3rd legislation, institutions and finances, and 4th social abstract. In principle, it deserves a positive assessment, however, it should not have happened that the report, which is a document based on the creation of a strategy, does not mention georism, energy as well as mining, although it mentions certain areas that have not been found in the previous strategy. It should be pointed out that the report had to require stronger work on cooperation between the competent resolutions of most areas because this is obviously an extremely significant problem. In this context, I would remind again of the absurdity of the separation of environmental resistors from nature protection and of the unacceptable conflict of interest in the ministry which at the same time cares about environmental and space protection and encourages construction, unfortunately mostly in the form of the concreteisation of the internal Croatia and the apartmentisation of the coastal area. According to the report, the state of biodiversity in Croatia appears to be good in most cases, i.e. all our stupidities and non-organic projects have managed to preserve biodiversity and landscape diversity, but this is not due to a well-valued strategy or any other law, but mainly due to the not so high level of exploitation of nature so far, and what if we compete with developed countries. In other words, the conclusion is that the weak economic and industrial development of Croatia is the main reason for preserved biodiversity and landscape diversity. The report deals with the following areas: landscapes, habitats of wild property, invasive properties, domestic heritage properties, protected areas, ecologically significant areas, agriculture, water economy, forestry, hunting, freshwater fisheries, marine fisheries, the collection of mushrooms, plants and animals, tourism, transport, GMOs, legislative framework, institutional framework, financing of nature protection, education and information to the public, public participation in the decision-making process. As I have already mentioned the evaluations of the implementation of the strategy are mainly based on the following words: not implemented, partially implemented or a small part of the plan has been implemented. It is the least designed to implement action plans in the field of wildlife. And most of all, it is based on the legislative plan, which should not be particularly praised because the implementation of the laws passed is indeed very low. Although the report is realistic and is mostly correct in the extent to which it is written it is still impossible not to notice that some areas are more detailed. For example, in addition to Chapter 1, a review of the state of biological and landscape diversity, Chapter 2, the use of natural goods and procedures in nature would be logical if there were Chapter 3 of the protection of natural goods or biological landscape diversity with the structure of the 1st state of the cause of natural disturbance in Croatia, 2nd activity on the protection of nature between 2000 and 2007. 3. evaluation of the implementation strategy and the 4th Guidelines for the next period. This report would provide evidence of the nature protection done but would also provide guidance in the protection for the next period. In addition, the title of the report suggests that not only the state and use of nature but also the protection of nature should be processed. The question also raises the question of how to valorise and appreciate the justification of everything that is set out in the current third chapter of the report, in particular under point 3.3. of nature protection financing, if the report lacks a review of the dimension and importance of those most important or urgent phenomena that must be limited, directed and eradicated and similar activities to protect Croatia's biodiversity and landscape diversity at all levels of governance, including the review done on the protection and protection guidelines in the future. In the SDP Club, we believe that this is exactly what the updated content of the report would refer to a constantly highlighted dissatisfaction, coordination and lack of professional training, organised by all management resolutions, and here I mean spatial planning, nature and culture protection, as well as sectors covered by page 14 of the strategy in question. And to conclude from the report, the illogicalness of the resolution division that is reflected in documents such as this report, as well as the strategy where the evaluations and policies are tailored according to the route of the portfolio rather than the scale of the things that these documents should process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21150	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, two respected MPs will speak. First distinguished representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21151	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will accept the proposed Strategy and action plan for the biodiversity of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the Strategy and Action Plan for the protection of the biodiversity of the Republic of Croatia is a fundamental document of nature protection, which sets out long-term objectives and guidelines for the conservation of biodiversity and landscape diversity and protected natural values, and how it is implemented in accordance with the overall economic, social and cultural development of the Republic of Croatia. The obligation to draw up a strategy is laid down in Article 151 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Nature Protection Act. The strategy is brought by the Croatian Parliament, and is developed by the Ministry of Culture on the basis of a report on the state of nature and nature protection prepared by the State Institute for Nature Protection. The international obligation to draw up a strategy stems from Article 6 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Convention on Biodiversity, which the Republic of Croatia has been a full party since '96. A year. Based on the commitment of the '95 Council of Europe Convention. They also adopted a European strategy for the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity, which extended the result of the convention to landscapes. In 1999, the Republic of Croatia adopted a National Strategy and Action Plan to protect biodiversity and landscape diversity, which for the first time systematically plotted and fully planned the activities of nature protection, i.e. to preserve overall biodiversity and landscape diversity. In accordance with Article 152. The Nature Protection Act shall be carried out every 5 years to analyse the objectives and guidelines set out in the strategy, as well as an analysis of the implementation of the action plans, and, where appropriate, a review of the strategy shall be carried out. In accordance with this legal possibility, the Ministry of Culture has joined the creation of a new strategy that we have here before us. In light of the accession of the Republic of Croatia, the European Union is obliged to draw up a strategy provided for by the National Programme for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in the third quarter of this year. During the period 2000 to 2008, significant changes occurred in the area of nature protection in the Republic of Croatia, largely due to the 1999 guidelines and action plans envisaged by the 1999 strategy. During the reporting period, the most significant milestone for the development of the nature protection system marked activities related to the preparations of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union, in particular after taking a positive official opinion on the Croatian Union's 2004 bid, which gave guidance for further development of the nature protection sector in Croatia in order to meet the European Union standards. From 2000 to 2008, institutional strengthening at the national and county level, administrative strengthening at all levels, the accession of all international agreements and nature protection, the establishment of a national and legislative framework in the field of nature protection and the use of genetically modified organisms, the declaration of new protected areas 33 new areas, the adoption of management plans for 4 national parks and one nature park, the declaration of the ecological network of Croatia, the implementation of the process of assessing the acceptability of plans, projects and procedures in the areas of the ecological network, the establishment of a systematic process of inventory of the components of biodiversity, the development of a map of habitats, and the successful implementation of a wide range of international funding projects and various funds, including European funds. The analysis of the existing situation and the reasons for the threat and problem of the protection of biodiversity in Croatia, as well as the progress made in relation to the 1999 Strategy found that Croatia continues to have a great wealth and diversity, and a high degree of value and conservation of biodiversity particularly in Western Europe. However, there is still a trend in loss of biodiversity and landscape diversity caused by globally recognised causes such as excessive exploitation of natural resources, infrastructure building, agricultural activities. In doing so, I mean melioration, rounding up agricultural land or abandoning grassland, bringing foreign species into environmental systems, environmental pollution, urbanisation of space and global climate change. A surreal analysis of the situation suggests that the Republic of Croatia manages to monitor European legislation and practice in the nature protection sector. However, additional efforts need to be focused on the implementation of action plans, and it is necessary to further work to strengthen the institutional framework, and to allocate significant resources to protect nature and state and county budgets. Given the major changes in the concept of nature protection, and the establishment of a new legislative and institutional framework as a consequence of accession and international conventions and agreements in the field of nature protection, and the accession process to the European Union, strategic objectives and guidelines have been seen on a whole new basis. Considering that the '99 Strategy. It does not cover the problem of geo alleviation which is an integral part of the Nature Protection Act, and is now being done, and the new document contains views of the protection of geo alleviation. Priorities in the next five years are firmly linked to the accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and in nature protection, this concerns full harmonisation of legislation including the establishment of implementing mechanisms, effective supervision, and in particular the contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the NATURA 2000 ecological network. With the aim of analysing the current strategies, as well as setting strategic objectives, guidelines and priorities, action plans by decision of the Culture Minister of July 2006 are appointed members of the 10 working groups. The working groups shall be appointed representatives of the competent authorities of the state administration, professional institutions, public institutions for the management of protected areas, inspection services, scientific institutions, the economic sector, and NGOs. The report on the nature situation on which this strategy is based includes a review of the situation by the end of 2007. The strategy takes a final look at the situation by the end of June 2008 covering changes in the institutional, legislative and implementation framework for nature protection, which took place by the declaration of the ecological network of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the adoption of a large number of new regulations by mid-2008. As a result of the above, the HDZ Club will accept the above-mentioned strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21152	And now the sequel on behalf of the HDZ Club is the second part, the esteemed representative Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21153	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to look back at this second part of these combined points 13 and 14. So, the report on the state of nature and nature protection in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2000 to 2007. National strategy and action plan for the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity from '99. the year is a fundamental document for nature protection. For the purposes of this strategy, a professional basis has been developed in which data on the state of biological and landscape diversity and their protection in the Republic of Croatia are first published. This report on the state of nature and the protection of nature in the Republic of Croatia from 2008 was drawn up on the basis of Article 153 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The 2005 Nature Protection Act is the basis for a national strategy and action plan. The report contains new data and a proposal for activities related to the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity for the period from 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2007 with guidelines for the next period. As we heard from the secretary of state 45 experts from the State Department for Nature Protection, I can say that there is indeed a quality report in front of us today. This report shall cover four chapters. The first is a review of the state of biological and causative diversity, then the use of natural goods and procedures in nature, then the legislative and institutional framework and the financing of nature protection and the fourth social aspect of nature protection. The first chapter includes landscapes of habitats, wild properties, foreign properties, domestic heritage properties, protected areas, ecologically significant areas. What is the state of the landscape in Croatia? Protecting landscape values is one of the cornerstones of the total value of space. Knowledge of the value of landscapes has emerged more seriously after the increasing threat of human environments, or landscapes, as part of it. The protection of landscapes has been carried out for years, but has only been reduced to normative measures, and they have protected only specially protected and recorded areas and cultural heritage. Today's intention is to evaluate and preserve landscapes throughout Croatia as urban, periurban and rural and natural landscapes. Spatial planning, nature protection and culture are important for the preservation of landscapes. Every resistor pays more attention to the landscape and seeks to install it into legislation. These efforts make it difficult to meet the lack and insufficient representation of experts in the area. The most important shift for landscapes was made in the creation of a legislative framework by the signing and ratification of the European Convention on Areas, Florence 2000, which entered into force on 1 March 2004. The provisions of the convention on landscapes have also been incorporated into the new Nature Protection Act of 2003 and 2005 respectively. Thus, the definition of nature protection states that it is made up of total biological and landscape diversity. Croatian landscape foundations developed by the Ministry of Spatial Planning from '99. They're the basis for further discussion. The report shows activities from 2000 to 2007 with the most important documents, i.e. laws such as 2003 and 2005. The Nature Protection Act, which protects landscapes in 2004, has been ratified by the European Convention on landscapes, assemblies and workshops and regionally developed studies, for example in Istria Lim Channel. In the assessment of the implementation of the national strategy and the action plan, of the 5 plans, 2 and this regional basis were translated and the integration of provisions on the protection of landscapes into regulations. From the guidelines, it will be important to develop a landscape base and legal implementation. The habitats in Croatia were first classified and mapped. According to the 2004 map, the most widespread habitats are forest and grasslands. Degradation and loss of habitats are the most important part and cause a threat to biodiversity. Such anthropogenic activities endangering habitats include the construction of hydropower plants and the creation of dams of accumulating lakes. Among the most endangered habitats are river pebbles, sands, muds, waterways in the cross with saddled barriers. In its seven-year period, the biggest shift was made in the area of legislation, which is reflected in the implementation of all the chapters in this report. The adoption of the Nature Protection Act created the basis for the active protection of landscapes and the recently adopted Nature Protection Act, which is in line with European Union legislation, is also a new shift in the protection of landscapes. The habitats are classified and mapped. The wild ones are partially inventoryed. It is known that the Republic of Croatia has 38 thousand wild properties. The last 5 years in the Republic of Croatia have registered 199 new non-Kingdoms and 205 irrevocable irrevocables. Invasive properties are one of the largest identified patterns of biodiversity hazards in the world. The biggest problem is the spread of foreign and invasive algae and invasive plant properties, among which the most widespread and most famous ambrosia is. During the 7-year period, 33 new protected areas were declared, management plans were adopted, and 4 national parks and 1 nature park. The ecological network of the Republic of Croatia has been declared and a systematic process of inventory of the components of biodiversity has been established. The report shows that inspection supervision needs to be strengthened, the financial capacities of public institutions for managing protected natural values of counties still insufficient to achieve full protection of nature and implementation of the ecological network. The report includes the situation in agriculture where a reduction in agricultural areas is observed, so it also includes the state of the water economy, freshwater fishing, marine fisheries, the collection of mushrooms, the impact of tourism, but the importance of increasing revenues from national parks such as Plitvice Lakes and Krka. The report also points to the need for greater investment and the provision of resources in the protection of nature. Transport is a special chapter, but it should also be stressed that it is on the importance of traffic because recently it has been built about 300km of highways, which has a significant impact on nature. For this reason, it was necessary to build nine green bridges for the purposes of the great beasts. Significant chapters in the report also point to genetically modified organisms. In institutional strengthening of nature protection, significant progress has been made by establishing the National Nature Protection Institute as a national, expert nature protection institution that began working in September 2003. Nature protection is financed from the state budget on average 0.07% and part of the project is also financed from international funds. Progress is also felt in education, information, public participation in decision-making, but there is still no systematic education and information. The Republic of Croatia is monitoring European legislation, but action plans still need to be implemented and resources to protect nature should be increased. Due to all the above, the HDZ Club will support this report on the state of nature and nature protection in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21154	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21155	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The club of representatives of the HSS will support the Report on the state of nature and nature protection in the Republic of Croatia and the strategy and action plan for the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity. We appreciate that these documents are both correct and realistic and we think that it is good and that we should commend the Ministry of Culture for analysing the report on the state of nature and nature protection in the Republic of Croatia objectively pointed out how many action plans and tasks were really planned, and how many were realised. Of course, we cannot be completely satisfied with what has been done because it can always be better. Report indicators say 50% of the plans have been implemented, but some have been partially implemented. The reason for this can certainly be a strategy that was too ambitious, but we are of the view that nature protection should certainly be ambitious. Of course it was most done in the area of legislation, then red books were issued on the assessment of endangered species, but as for concrete protection, it was made comprehensively only for large beasts of drawings, wolves, and bears. It seems to us, however, that the worst landscapes have passed, that not enough has been done for them, except that the EU Convention on landscapes has been ratified. We are particularly concerned about what is said in the report, which is the trend of reducing production on carp ponds that are an alternative habitat to endangered swamp birds, and we are particularly concerned about the loss of agricultural areas as the report detects. Unfortunately, much of these agricultural areas have grown in amorphoses, chica, but some of them have also become building land that is unfortunately lost forever for agriculture. Problematize this report and overfishing in the Adriatic. We are of the view that our Italian neighbours contribute significantly to this, and that the problem could be solved by the fact that ZERP remained in force rather than being suspended, but it is certainly the subject of some other debate. The Action Plan for the Water Economy has not been implemented, and this is an area of great importance and since the exploitation of gravel from riverbeds continues, and in the new strategy, the action plan only provides for the prevention of excessive and unwarranted extraction of application from riverbeds, in particular springs and not total suppression. The fact is that in certain situations and areas, especially when we talk about the border rivers, the activities of the competent services are not fast enough, they are not coordinated enough, and that is why we sometimes have a situation where, according to that people's "later Marko on Kosovo" or that our neighbours or those whose gravel is needed for some reason, take it out illegally and go unpunished. Such situations should not happen, of course not only in charge of the Ministry of Culture, there are competent services of different resolutions that must make sure that they react in time. The report also problems the impact of different energy facilities on nature protection. Of course, it is especially important to highlight the problem created by the construction of the Lesce hydropower plant, because it certainly has an impact on the karst canyon, and also the planned hydroenergy use of the Krka River will have a negative impact on the Krka National Park. There is a problem with wastewater disposal because for now only 40% of the system is connected to public draining. The report noted that special concerns should be devoted to counterfeiting. The poaching of wetland birds is also particularly expressed in the area of Neretva, of course we are also faced with poachers coming from other countries, and there we must especially praise the inspection of nature protection especially in that Slavonic section that is truly intensive and spotless in the discovery of poachers. We believe that the great problem is the killing of large beasts and that those strictly protected species like wolves and lynx may not have found enough protection from all the resistors who should take care of them. Because we understand the concerns of farmers and those faced with the damage that these great beasts do to them, but we also suggest that, with the veterinary institute and the Ministry of Culture, our colleges, try to mark these wild species and put them in the function of eco tourism in some way. So that there are monitorings that would be adequate, and if we knew where these wild beasts are going, not to end up in the courtyards of people like this today and doing damage to them, but to try to get them through this tracking to areas that would be interesting to tourists, because we are witnessing that many European countries and wild species are no longer in their territory. Moreover, in the strategy with an action plan, it does not mention what should be done specifically in the cooperation of hunting inspections, inspections of nature protection other than professional seminars and training, but it would certainly be recommended that these two inspections better coordinate their activities. In invasive species, the problem of alochton savages is evident. This particularly concerns our islanders on Krk, Cres and Rab because, for example, wild boars have domesticated so well that they already know the system of how to swim from one side of the coast to the other, and no minor problem for wild boars is even present on the continent. Also, the problem of the continent is certainly ambrosia that causes allergies. We are witnessing that many local authorities are trying to contain ambrosia through coordinated actions, but this is going extremely hard. Of course, we at HSS welcome the construction of infrastructure especially when it comes to roads, but it is certain that these projects should also take care of nature protection. We lay down competent services that have indeed made efforts to build green bridges on new roads and thus allow gamers to move uninterrupted. The problem seen through this report, which in the long run may become a problem if we do not solve it in time, is an inventory issue because only 38 thousand species have been listed so far, and there are estimated to be as many as 100 thousand in Croatia. We also believe that two things are essential for both the report and the strategy, which is money and people, without it there is no implementation of any of the other documents. Financial investment in nature protection in 2006 was only 0.77% of the state budget. It was the same in 2007. We think, and we also pointed out on the home environmental protection committee, that more money needs to be invested in nature protection. Not only does nature protection be considered a cost because if protection of nature is observed from the aspect of social gain then it can surely be concluded that this social gain is multiplely beneficial. More and more have been talking about the economic approach of nature lately, and several years ago, the annual value of nature-provided services has been calculated, and it amounts to $33 billion which is twice the amount of GDP of, twice the world's GDP. Unfortunately, there is also a need to warn about the facts that human action has led to, which is that over the last 300 years 40% of the world's forests have disappeared from what is completely in 50 countries. That, from 1990 to today, 50% of the wetlands have been lost, 35% of the coastal forest, 30% of the coral reefs, and these eco-systems are the richest plant and animal species. Human action on life-forms exterminates at a rate of up to a thousand times greater than would be the case of natural evolution. That's why a third of the amphibians, eight of the birds and a quarter of the mammals are at risk, and 60% of the services that nature provides are, unfortunately, lost. The disappearance of biodiversity for human species means the disappearance of all those services that nature provides, from food and drinking water, through the control of infectious diseases, medicines and protection against natural disasters. And these services are precisely a concept that will in a later analysis expose itself to a problem, the basis on which the widely accepted market approach to sustainable development and biodiversity conservation rests. Of course, another problem needs to be highlighted, which is a weak teaming in money and the people of the county public institutions, which are mainly now in all counties, which are making great efforts to contribute to the protection of nature, but also needs to be helped from the state level, because they can not only care about the county because these county public institutions will have to worry about the ecological network of Croatia, which was declared a regulation in October 2007, which includes 47% of land and 39% of sea territory, which is a really big part of Croatia. In the strategy, we believe in the HSS, it should take into account clear and concrete deadlines for the reason that what was the case with the previous strategy should not happen, or that certain action plans should not be implemented or implemented only partially. We believe that it is excellent that the report analyses areas that were not envisaged by action plans, but are extremely important for nature protection such as the Ecological Networks of Invasive Transport. We also estimate that a significant shift has been achieved in the legal regulation of GMOs. Although the process is not complete, I remind once again of the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament relating to the ban on the seed of genetically modified organisms and for experimental purposes. The strategy also added some new areas of georaznolicity, energy, as is said about the impact of wind power plants on biodiversity, which has not been considered so far. And here I would like to invite the entire public to participate in a public debate on the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which is currently available to all, to enter their observations and support the concept of using renewable energy sources because surely the enhanced concept of renewable energy use contributes and preserves nature protection. The establishment of a gene bank is planned for the endangered domesticated heritage properties. We think that this is extremely important, because Croatia, by setting up the parties to the Convention on the Protection of Biological Areas of Variety, has made a systematic commitment to care for the overall diversity of life as well as indigenous breeds. In the interaction between humans and indigenous breeds, the landscape we have today has become, and the survival of these animals is also linked to rural space and its development. Other countries have already recognised the great potential of their original breeds and of their products, enriching their tourist offer and thus safeguarding the tradition and culture of their people. That's why we at HSS insist that the gene bank be established as soon as possible. Of course, we also support the fact that this strategy pays special attention to ecotourism as an ideal framework for tourism development. Croatia has a great chance in this segment because of its excellent geographical position, favourable climate opportunities and preserved biodiversity. This potential should not be easily understood, it should be used as a recognizable segment of the tourist offer. Not only if we watch destinations, but also food produced in the area. We at HSS advocate that this is exactly what food finds in Croatian tourism, in several hotels on the Croatian coast. We believe the result won't go away. We also advocate that the spatial plans of protected areas are adopted as soon as possible, as life in some protected areas has become really difficult because the lack of spatial plans affects the lack of management plans and this interferes with the local population in their daily activities. I would still like to say just a few sentences concerning monetary incentives for management in protected areas that should be invested in conservation measures of biodiversity. In other countries, people living in rural areas, living in a protected area, precisely because of these difficult living conditions and restrictions that they inevitably have under the law, these people are also being helped financially. There is no reason not to do so in Croatia, because these are the guardians of our Croatian space. That is why they need to be given one special thank you, to show them respect because they have preserved the tradition and identity of the Croatian people. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support both of these documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21156	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative, Željko Vincelj. Here you go. I'd like to ask the MPs, this is a plenary session. They're not circles, so let's listen a little bit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21157	Honored Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the report on the state of nature protection in the Republic of Croatia, a whole series of data on the main components of our country's biological and landscape diversity, which shows that the situation in most parts is satisfactory, but in the table, the evaluation of the implementation of the action plans established by the national strategy and action plan shows that many sad and concerned smiles until a very large number of smiles are smiled. This clearly states that a lot of activities have been initiated during the reporting period, but that many unfinished and mostly important activities are in front of factors that care about nature and its protection. Looking at these documents, and the fact is that it is also highlighted in the text itself, it is impossible to see them separately as the strategy is drawn up on the basis of the Report on the State of Nature and Nature Protection in the Republic of Croatia, it is evident that the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union is conditioned by clearly defined and carried out activities and documents in this area which will pay particular attention to the management of protected natural values and timely moves. Croatia is certainly one of the wealthier countries in Europe by biological and landscape values, but it is also clear to all of us that we have not been clearly and unequivocally determined as a society according to the firm protection of our natural values. The report shows that pressure on space and especially not natural resources is high and that large capital still has great power. The question is whether we are only declarative for the protection and proper valorisation of our natural values or whether our criteria and strategic definitions are easily forgotten when it comes to some higher interest. Practice proves, and as an example, they can only give an indication of the number of quarryes in protected areas that we are not consistent with and that strategies usually end up as documents that we admire in the country and the world, but always at the end of the ballad remains many sad and anxious smiles. According to state data in protected areas of Croatia, Žumberak, Plitvice Lakes, Velebit, Medvednica, Učka, Papuk, Kalnik, Risnjak, Mljet, 92 surface baths of stone were recorded, and there are still around 10% of them. Among the registered spears is a large number abandoned for which no legal sequence has been established, and some of them are owned by Croatian forests. Most of them are not registered as an exploitation field within the meaning of the Mining Act, nor are they subject to the rules of the profession, so they are now a major devastation of space, open wounds and hotspots and erosion. The conclusion is that most of them or maybe all of them are illegal. There is no documentation of the quantities obtained from the spears, and there is no example of the recovery of the spears after the exploitation. In many abandoned spears, I repeat, it continues to be exploited illegally occasionally. Over the past 4 years, the total value of illegally exploited mineral raw materials has been around 600 million kuna estimates. We're just talking about recorded value inspection services, not those values they haven't seen or recorded. According to the Penal Code, the exploitation of mineral raw material without a mining concession is a criminal offence, for which fines or prison sentences are prescribed for up to 3 years, and if the work is committed in a particularly protected area of nature, the penalty shall be up to 8 years. For the past three years, however, no sentence has been passed with a prison sentence for illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials. In particular, it should be pointed out in this case that a large number of them are being closed after the exploitation has been completed, and their owners or users have never intended to do so, both professionally and qualitatively, which leads to a drastic impact not only on the plant and animal world of that area, but also an important violation of the landscape values of that area. It is only one of a series of examples that could be cited and that will be under the watchful path of European negotiators, which we fear we do not have the right answers. Another major problem in nature protection is surely funding. The adoption of a Regulation declaring an ecological network covering more than 40% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which manages protected natural values, has given them new management obligations. The problem is particularly highlighted by a large number of newly established county institutions, which are the result of downgrading certain jobs to regional levels, which are neither human nor financially able to take on such a large job and responsibility. It should also be the counties that provide funding for the areas managed by their institutions, which for some of them will be huge costs that those in this model, without co-financing from the state budget, are not able to adequately provide and carry out. In addition to a clear definition of the source of funding for nature protection jobs, it is also necessary to strengthen all institutions by starting with a resolution administration at the Ministry of Culture, the State Institute for Nature Protection to especially institutions that manage protected areas and natural values, because without strong institutions, the implementation of such extensive activities, which are mainly related to compliance with European laws and practices, I fear that we are facing difficult negotiations and future financial costs. It wouldn't be good if we all got surprised together and said we didn't know what was waiting for us. It would not be fair to say that in Croatia the legislative framework in the field of nature protection is weak, shrub or largely missing. Technically, a nice normative step has been made in the field of nature protection in Croatia, but also in this field of work and life it is shown that legislation and practice do not yet go hand in hand. What we could say is that it's driving by that order, the legislation forward, the practice stops. In fact, although the care of space is normally significantly improved, it is not followed by money, it is not followed by the state's sincere will to end the usurper of protected space and the polluters of nature. The laws give us the illusion that we have a sword to fight against them, but in practice there is no state hand that would hold and use it in the fight for the common good in the protection of nature. This failure in the fight to protect nature is hard to understand and acceptable, because inspections that should protect nature do not fight unknown people, phantoms, or night birds. They've been fighting the owners of heavy bangers, crushers and trucks that are big, noisy, creating dust and noise that can be seen and heard for miles that can't escape and destroy space and the environment for months and years and everyone sees it, and no one is being held responsible for it. It is a public secret that rights are a protected species with us prominent powerful men, tycoons, owners of construction and mining companies that build villas or illegally exploit stone, gravel, sand or brick clay in a protected area. Not at night, by day, for years, persistently and obsessingly. And when they're satisfied and rich, they leave ugly open wounds in nature, not rescinded to the mockery of forever and ever. I conclude, the country's project of our relationship with it, according to the protection of plants, animals and the environment, represents a general social value, and everyone in it has a role and responsibility, but of course greater than those whose job it is. Someone said it a thousand times, and we should say it a thousand times: "We have inherited the earth from previous generations, but we have borrowed it from generations behind us." And that's why we have an obligation to leave it to future generations, if not better, then at least in the same state that we saw it in our birth. All that has so far been regulated normably for this task as well as for this strategy is a good direction. You should try to do the same in practice. Unfortunately, so far, we have not witnessed the realization of most of the strategies and action plans knowingly, consciously and beautifully, but obviously too ambitiously without human and financial assumptions and potentials being put on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21158	Thank you. And I have one notice, which is that the 10th session of the Tourism Committee was called for Tuesday 2 December 2008 at 1400 hours. Now, we said we'd have a vote at 13 o'clock. We've got six more individual discussions, so I'm appealing to the MPs to try to cut short a little bit so that we can end it all together and vote out what we've adopted this week. So in this sense, I call for the first individual debate, the distinguished representative Stjepan Kundic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21159	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary. In 1992, at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the Convention on Biodiversity, which was adopted as a fundamental document for the protection of biodiversity, was adopted as a fundamental international principle in the protection of nature and the common obligation of humanity. In the Republic of Croatia it entered into force on 7 October 1996. In 1999, the Republic of Croatia adopted a Strategy and Action Plan to protect biodiversity and landscape diversity, which for the first time systematically plotted and fully planned nature protection activities. The Ministry of Culture considered it necessary to take into account the latest guidelines 9. Convention of the Convention on Biological Variety held in Bonn from 19 to 30 May 2008 under the motto of biodiversity the basis for our life. On that occasion, representatives of the 191 state of the convention found that the country is currently lost between 100 and a thousand times more plant and animal properties than would have happened in natural processes without man's action. New guidelines have been developed for the development of a network of protected areas and the investment of donor countries has been announced, above all, to reduce the loss of biodiversity of tropical forests by 2012. The preparation of new rules for access and distribution of welfare from the rich genetic heritage of the world has been agreed, the high responsibility of humanity and the parties to the convention to achieve the goals of reducing biodiversity loss globally by 2010. The basic principles of which are set out in the National Strategy and the Action Plan for the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity are these. First, the Republic of Croatia is aware that the overall biodiversity, landscape and geological diversity represents its fundamental value and main resource for further development. Secondly, the aim of the Republic of Croatia is to preserve and improve existing biodiversity and landscape diversity within the country and to try to restore lost properties and habitats where possible and justified. Furthermore, the Republic of Croatia will develop all appropriate measures to identify the conservation and promotion of existing biological and landscape diversity. National legislation will ensure that measures to preserve and improve overall biodiversity in all economic activities they use or have an impact on biological goods. Furthermore, the Republic of Croatia will systematically expand efforts to protect biodiversity, landscape and geological diversity from national to regional and local levels. Then, the Republic of Croatia will constantly align its efforts to protect biodiversity and landscape diversity with relevant international activities, given the fact that national biological and landscape diversity is a unique and irreparable part of overall global diversity. Lastly, the Republic of Croatia will continue to take all necessary activities leading to full transposition and implementation of Directives and regulations of the European Union governing the area of protection of wildlife and natural habitats. What are general and strategic goals. So, to preserve the overall biodiversity, landscape and geological diversity as a fundamental value and potential for further development of the Republic of Croatia, to meet all obligations arising from the accession process to the European Union and to bring legislation into line with relevant directives and regulations of the European Union, to meet the obligations arising from international agreements in the field of nature protection, biological security, access to information, etc., to ensure integrated nature protection through cooperation with other sectors. Then, to establish and assess the state of biological, landscape and geological diversity, establish an information system of nature protection with an institutional database linked to the country's information system. Furthermore, to encourage the improvement of institutional and non-institutional ways of education on biodiversity and public participation in decision-making processes. And then, develop implementing mechanisms through strengthening legislative institutional capacity through education, developing scientific resources, notifying the development of the financing mechanism. And just another "post script." As I come from Velika Gorica, our Sports Fishing Society "Odra" which manages 900 hectares of water and we have 800 members of the fishing society most in Zagreb County are not satisfied with the maintenance of water streams in our area, especially the Sava-Odra canal where the growing vegetation that disturbs... But I don't think it's good for the canal itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I took the opportunity, Mr. Secretary, to pass on our request because that's what I'm thinking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21160	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 12 hours and 43 minutes. The next is distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21161	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The strategy and action plan for the protection of the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia is a fundamental document of nature protection. This strategy sets out long-term objectives and guidelines for preserving biodiversity and landscape diversity and protected natural values. However, it also deals in many ways with the implementation of the same in line with the economic, social and cultural development of the Republic of Croatia. It should also be noted, implemented in one set of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and as such is foreseen by the national programme for the accession of the European Union for 2008. Why was it necessary to bring one such strategy? Well, it's expressed primarily and it's as such occurred through major changes in the concept of nature protection. The implementation of the new institutional framework for nature protection has also taken place through the accession of international conventions and agreements in the field of nature protection. There has also been harmonisation of legislation with relevant directives and regulations of the European Union, and the strategy is, in a formal and substantive way, a completely new document, which is evident through divergences in relation to the 1999 Strategy. In any event, the Republic of Croatia is aware that the overall biodiversity, landscape and geological diversity represents its fundamental value and main resource for further development and is working on it and has worked so far to preserve nature and improve existing biodiversity and landscape diversity within the country. And certainly the desire to return some of the lost property and habitats is another reason why, as Mr Ivan Shantek pointed out, is also the reason that the Croatian Democratic Community Club and I, as part of it, will vote for this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21162	Thank you. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21163	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I will report on the state of nature and nature protection created by the State Department for Nature Protection and established by the Ministry of Culture. This report contains many data and a review of activities related to the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity with guidelines for the next period. It is structured in four chapters covering all areas of protection. The first chapter provides an overview of the state of biological and landscape diversity within which the quality of landscapes, habitats, wildlife, invasive properties, domestic and traditional properties, protected areas and ecological protected areas or networks are processed. The second chapter discusses the use of natural resources and procedures in nature where it is detailed on the impact of economic activities on nature and agriculture and the water economy, forestry, hunting, marine and freshwater fisheries, but also on tourism, transport and the collection of mushrooms, plants and animals. The next chapter, legislative and institutional framework and nature protection financing provides an overview of progress in creating a legislative framework, organising and financing the nature protection sector. The last chapter also reports on education, information and public participation in nature protection decisions. The methodology used for drawing up this report is extremely good, except in line with the European Environment Protection Agency methodology, it is good because for each section of protection it includes both the state and the activities, the assessment of the implementation and the guidelines. Given the above, and the fact that a large number of experts participated in the preparation of the report, the report is a quality basis for the strategy and action plan for the protection of the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia, which is also on the agenda today. The results of the reporting period have been highlighted. Institutional strengthening at the state, county and local level, administrative strengthening at all levels, accession and ratification and implementation of all international agreements, the establishment of a national legislative framework for genetically modified organisms, the establishment of a systematic process of inventory, a component of biodiversity, even though there is a space for improvement, the creation of habitat maps, the adoption of management plans for four national parks and one nature park, which holds a very significant, successful implementation of many projects and the use of all available funds, both domestic and European Union funds, and the adoption of a new legislative framework, i.e. the amendment of the laws on the protection of nature that we have brought to this high home last week. The protection of nature has therefore become an integral activity, which aims to bring the use of natural goods to the greatest extent possible to bring it into line with sustainable development. The report shows that the Republic of Croatia still has a great wealth and diversity and a very high degree of value and conservation of biodiversity and landscape diversity. However, there is no negligible trend in the loss of biological and landscape diversity, which is globally recognised for reasons such as overexploitation of natural resources, which was previously the case. This is about cutting, poaching, gathering, disturbance, etc., and perhaps pointing to an insufficient number of inspection services in this section. In addition, the introduction of foreign species into environmental systems as well as the construction of infrastructure that causes the loss and fragmentation of habitats such as roads, energy facilities, water-economic facilities and others. I will just point out here that the Republic of Croatia is one of the first countries of the European Union to start building green bridges and thus, in practice, begin to address the negative impact of roads on habitats. One of the following activities that also takes away biological and landscape, loss, which causes loss of biodiversity and landscape diversity is agricultural activity through melioration, circulation, desertion of grassland. One quarter of the total farmland on the garland is either not used. Partly due to minimality and partly to abandonment. The strongest impact of agriculture on biodiversity is manifested through, here are some of the following activities, which is the disappearance of wetlands resulting from deforestation and conversion into agricultural areas, which is particularly expressed in the coast, means Vranjsko lake, Bokanjačka, Nadinsko mud, but also a large part of the Neretva delta. Then the healing of pastures and meadows due to the abandonment of rural areas, so that we lose one part of the habitat, one part of the species and birds, as well as the plants. Next is the use of chemical agents to protect plants and artificial fertilisers, which is most often excessive in our country. As far as biodiversity is concerned, the loss of biodiversity associated with environmental pollution here I'm going to stay just a little bit on the water. And to say that the construction of a system of submarine discharges and cleaning devices in the areas of the cities of Zadar and Biograd, i.e. Zadar and Biograd Rivieras, including the area of Pakostane, but to Pag, Povljana, Pag and... and based on an agreement with the World Bank on the protection of the Adriatic Sea and on the control of sea quality on sea beaches, such points are more than 80 in the field of Zadar County and a series of planning documents and studies on environmental impact shows that regional and local self-government can monitor the situation and in time affect the reduction of negative environmental impacts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Urbanisation is an additional element that threatens this area due to a significant increase in tourism for this observed period. So over the past 10 years, there have been also negative consequences for the preservation of biodiversity and landscape diversity, primarily because of the wild and illegal construction of tourist facilities and infrastructures throughout Croatia are being undermined by the Republic of Croatia but with the biggest consequences on the coast and islands. The regulation has made a significant step. However, global climate change is also the cause of biodiversity loss. No matter what significant shift has been made both in investment and in legislation and strengthening institutions in this segment, a large space has been opened to improve the effective implementation of the law in practice, but also in the system of education and information to the public and compliance of the rules. The preserved wealth of biodiversity and landscape diversity represents the vast development potential of the Republic of Croatia and the quality of protection and management of these resources is obligations for both these and next generations. I believe that this detailed and methodological quality report is a contribution to this goal, and therefore I support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21164	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21165	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I will quote first one sentence from your report for the past year: "Among the most endangered types of habitats of this class are: river pebbles, sands, mules the most represented in the great river Drava and Mura, and some parts of the Sava River." This sentence is from the chapter: The habitats, surface land water and marsh views. In the strategy for the future when setting out guidelines for the next period, you note that it is necessary to complete the establishment of important areas for the conservation of endangered rivers, to scientificly identify the threat of individual habitats, map habitats in protected areas and areas of the environmental network managed by public institutions, to implement active conservation measures and to establish measures to preserve endangered habitats in all nature management plans. Who wouldn't support your finding that the most endangered area of the habitat is in the area of Mura and Drava, and who wouldn't normally support these guidelines? But how do you do it in practice? In September of this year, water law inspector Zeljko Makulić issued a licence for the technical and economic maintenance of the Mura and Drava troughs at 9 locations where a million cc's of gravel will be exploited. Your Nature Protection Authority has been notified of this. You've received several warnings and memos that are being prepared there. Upstream of the bridge in Donjo Dubrava near the Varazdin hydropower plant, near the Goric and Stari Bridge at the Mura Mr. Secretary of State at 215th river km of Drava near Gabaje’s beam at 233rd river km of Drava near Lebanovec, in Legrad near Veliki Pažut, 70th river km of Mura, at 60th river km and at Kotoriba. This is the 9th location where the work on some of these locations has already begun. What are habitats and endangered plant species, the question is, at these locations? A kebrac, a gambler, a tiny horn, a white willow. What animals are threatened because you did not respond to reports? Beaver, otter, black stork, eagle, beekeeper, and so on. So as it is possible that at these 10 exceptional, 9 extremely significant locations that you yourself call in your report the most endangered types of habitat and in the Strategy for future time you are planning ideal measures theoretically, is not responding at the moment when someone, for all of God's reasons, defends from the floods is actually doing economic exploitation of gravel from the troughs of the Mura and Drava River. Organizations dealing with protection in this area are asking for your help. They're talking to all possible addresses to at least temporarily stop this I'd say robbery in nature. Another absurd. These works are financed by the Ministry of Regional Development. At the same time, the Republic of Croatia is running with projects to protect these areas in European funds. It is in these locations in this area that projects from Croatia are running for... measures to protect the area and which are also supported by neighbouring Hungary and Slovenia, in particular Austria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At these sites, the most harsh works of influence on habitats are performed and no one in this country is in charge, no one wants to go out on the field and on the spot to see what is going on, what are the locations and what are they doing? It's too short for me to elaborate a series of procedures here for you right now. That it's about destroying the coast, that it's about digging up gravel from the meaningdars, that it's about procedures that will irrevocably destroy these habitats in which, by the way, you'll be told, you've invested and significant money so far for protection. So what's the strategy for? So what are the measures you're announcing when something that's going on these days, you can see, no one wants to react? Or maybe the ones who spoke to you wrongly? Maybe they're using an incomprehensible dictionary? If not you, Ministry of Culture, Mr. Secretary of State, explain to them your administration that they're stopping something based on one single agreement from an inspector. And in the end, environmental impact studies don't exist. The responsible in Croatian waters, based on the pressures we have made these days, have admitted that it has just been ordered. If all this is not enough, then I ask you to leave this chapter of the Strategy on the protection of habitats along the Mura and Drava River and on the Mura and Dravi River, and write that you will allow the exploitation of how you remember whom. How can you wish it on anyone? Because this gravel, these millions of cubics, is not in the function of flood protection, but in the management of wealth, mineral raw materials and nothing else. You know that, too. Your minister knows that, your administration knows that, and you only tolerate it because the Ministry of Regional Development has pressured you to keep it quiet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21166	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we've only got two debates left, so I'm asking for a little patience. I'm embarrassed to ring like this, but there's no sound of a speaker, so I'm gonna have to do a little bit. It's Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21167	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a report that actually contains a lot of data and numerous indicators and as such shows the real state of nature protection in the Republic of Croatia. Both the strategy and the report and the action plans were spoken by my predecessors. Therefore, I would not like to speak in general, but I would like to speak as a representative of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, in fact, to refer to the question of the declaration of the Nature Park of the Neretva Delta, for which the expert base has already been made and in whose space too much devastation has been carried out lately. For a full 10 years, it has been about protecting the Neretva valley by declaring nature park, and it is almost nothing to realize the same. Nature Park Hutovo Mudo was founded in 1995, and with the Croatian part of Neretva it is actually a natural whole and it is necessary to protect this area from advanced devastation. Public insight into the proposal to declare the Delta Neretva Nature Park was under way from May 21st to May 29th and was to be announced by 29th of June 2007, and public exposure to nature park was to be held in Metkovic on May 30th, in Opuzen on May 31st, in Pločas on June 1st, etc. But on May 29, everything without an explanation was interrupted and cancelled as said. But to this day, it's a pain in the ass. The intention of declaring the nature park of Donja Neretva is mentioned only in part. As one of the priority action plans to strengthen the legislative framework set out in this national strategy, it is essential to protect this particular area of Donja Neretva as a nature park, and at a pace which is done it will not be for another 10 years when everything is essentially devastated. I would also like to look back on the chapter of the water economy, so the civil society associations I contacted are wondering what the Croatian waters were doing in the obstetric mouth, at the obstetric mouth of pardon and whether they were doing the storming of the sea, because the sea was entering agricultural plots, which is absolutely not true according to their allegations. From the deep sea whose money, for taxpayers' money, was thrown into the shallow sea along the way, making a huge beach in front of the private camp. During the months of work, no building board, investor, sign of approval and anything else that normally goes from construction was set up. Looks like we're planning a hotel with 700 beds. I would also look back at the habitat of the birds in Delta and the mouth of Neretva who are at risk. Half of the Vlaška canal near Neretva is owned by the port and they are now deepening the bottom, and for the planned LNG terminal it takes a minimum depth of 15 meters while the canal is 13 meters. Water communities will also devastate as well as the habitat of birds on the mouth due to constant noise. I'd also refer to the part about agriculture. In fact, property-legal relations in Delta Neretva are very complex, and for most agricultural land it is not clear to whom it belongs. Environmental agriculture is poorly represented in this area. In recent years, initiatives on organic cultivation of indigenous olives and other cultures have emerged. In environmental pilot projects, the advantage should be to grow cultures that were once traditionally grown in the Delta Neretva precisely because they require less water, i.e. less agrochemicals. Therefore, this area that is perceived as suitable and unchanged, namely in this present state without intervention, without declaring any parks of nature, is therefore actually interested in many, those who have certain benefits for themselves. And here they think that the nature park is actually a measure of limitation of almost all activities, so also farmers, hunters, fishermen, economics, or part of the population might consider it to be a sense of uncertainty from change. It is expected that the declaration of the nature park will speed up the resolution of the accumulated problems related to the ownership of agricultural land, and the re-editation of already melionised and currently abandoned agricultural areas. Zoran is also an example of public participation in the decision-making process is also an environmental impact study of the combined oil gas, acid, luminaires, poisons, lorries and many other things in Ploča where, after public debate, 15 associations and individuals have sent very critical remarks to the study. But to this day, as they have told me, they are not actually worthy, no one has entitled to send answers to any of them even though the commission has already adopted that study. And we know that, for example, the intention of building a terminal in Krk is constantly spinning in the media, there are various studies, lobbying, meetings, study solutions sent to us from Zagreb. But I'm not sure she's the one you know about. And the remarks on that study are great. We know it's lower current, i.e. The Neretva valley is limited to the space of certain and climatic, ecological, geographical, traditional and demographic characteristics, and should be seen from this aspect. And in conclusion, this area is already under extreme pressure and agriculture and industry, transport, the population, and we believe that its capacities have already been exploited to the upper limit, and if this trend does not stop, there may be a decline, i.e. the natural cycle of recession of the entire area, i.e. its economy, demographics and the entire eco system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21168	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Dragutin Bogdakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21169	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Tatjana. You mentioned the protection of birds in the area of Neretva, which is certainly significant and these habitats especially as one of the jewels of the normal Croatian area. However, what is also important and what is in this strategy, one of the strategic goals is to preserve habitats related to freshwater ponds because it is evident that since the 1990s when we had 12000 carpal ponds to have them today, that these ponds in the lowland regions of Croatia have been from the time of 1900 and that just reducing these ponds has affected the biodiversity and protection of the primary swamp birds. So, ponds as one half-intense replacement for marsh habitats. What is said in this and in previous protection of these endangered and rare birds is classified under the Nature Protection Act between protected birds and strictly protected. However, the difference arises from the fact that the state either pays or does not pay for it, and the fish species that are prior to closure are normally at risk if such birds are not paid, and as fish eaters they appear. The silence that prevailed on the ponds will certainly increase because the issue of growth of all possible burdens going towards freshwater ponds from water contributions and compensations that the state does not normally deny that this word related to the strategy will also be a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21170	Thank you. And as last in debate on this agenda point, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21171	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. We are now talking about a proposal for a strategy of biodiversity and landscape diversity and a report on the state of nature and nature protection in the Republic of Croatia, the best assessment of the state of nature and the protection of human health also said yesterday on television by a lady after she was asked whether illegally rejected asbestos was discovered somewhere on the border between Split and Solin, she said about living next to the forest and I thought I was breathing fresh, clean air, and who knows what I was breathing. The lady breathed asbestos dust particles. That's how we like to talk about blue skies, blue seas, less blue rivers, green forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21172	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21173	Well, I really don't know why she's nervous. And what's behind that? What's flying in the air or what's swimming in the water, nobody knows. And worst of all, it's not particularly interested in state institutions either. And when a certain incident occurs in the form of asbestos or air pollution... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21174	Please, colleagues, let's be patient and let's not interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21175	I can go out for a pay phone, I don't care. So when such an incident happens, what is the first reaction of state institutions? Try to cover it up. And that is why I view this strategy primarily in all the good that is listed in it as doing a job that had to be done without real will to make an important step in protecting the environment, i.e. in this case biological and landscape diversity. The relatively good situation in nature that we still have the result is, should be recognised primarily by the weaker economic development of the state. The strategy in the status description also well lists the dangers that threaten biodiversity and landscape diversity. As a result of the loss of biodiversity and landscape diversity, the overuse of natural resources, the construction of infrastructures, agricultural activities, environmental pollution, urbanisation of space and the like are listed. Sustainable development shows a large part of the economy its unsustainableness. And that this strategy is a less important document for the majority of the political and economic elite, testifys and discusses on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, where it is pointed out in several places that this strategy should respect the specifics of the strategy of the spatial organisation of the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to the territory of the future Natura 2000 ecological network, since it is necessary to set priorities from the point of view of nature protection in order to identify possible conflicts with the Strategy of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia, and ultimately that bodies responsible for the protection and conservation of biodiversity and landscape diversity should coordinate with bodies responsible for spatial planning, energy, agriculture and the like. Of course coordination is necessary, but knowing how it works in practice, it is already said in advance that the strategy for the conservation of biodiversity and landscape diversity must be embedded in the defined frameworks, which is spatial planning, energy and agriculture. And when we read the strategy on Croatia's energy development, we see how little it holds to nature's protection. An estimate of 75 per cent increase in consumption shows that HEP exists not for citizens, but for citizens, and this state seems to exist for the sake of HEP and lobby related to it. One part of our elites in the best tradition of state socialism, although non-liberal capitalism with multinational companies is not significantly different, progress is equated with the destruction of nature. The amount of progress and success of one project is measured by the size of the damage done. In this respect, the energy development strategy should also be read. And here last week, we could hear that the Danube-Sava channel was going to be built because Dr. Ivo Sanader said it would be built and built in 10 years, in the best manner of attitude. Let's just remember the prime minister's statement two years ago that the LNG terminal will be built on Krk, no matter what the environmentalists say. Half a year, it was lost to the heads of state to realize that there are laws to be followed, even if they don't like them. And as far as the current government cares about nature protection, it has unwittingly shown again on the same Committee on Spatial Planning where it is said, among other things, that as one of the positive examples of this interaction, it is thought of the interaction of spatial planning with the strategy for the conservation of biological and landscape diversity as an example of the positive impact of the regulation on the organisation and protection of the coastal area. So if something has contributed to further devastation of the most beautiful parts of Croatia, it is this regulation, that is, its implementation because what we have in action, it is concreteisation and apartmentization of the coast. The paradox is that the economic crisis will also have some positive effects as regards further devastion of the Croatian coast. And to conclude, there is no complete nature protection system in Croatia, and it will not be there until there is enough political will to end the self-will of those whose profits are of the sole interest and who are interested in political circles. But what gives little optimism is an increasing public interest, to protect this same environment. And right now, the public will be the greatest guarantee that we won't destroy everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21176	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21177	Mr. President, my colleague Pancic has read the minutes correctly from the session of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, but his interpretation of the text is not correct. She's completely wrong about what was meant by that. He's got to read it, but he doesn't have the right to interpret what I signed, because it's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-28-0.u21178	He read it correctly, so there's nothing wrong with it, and the interpretation is free. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when it's your turn. Proposal for a revision of the Strategy and the Action Plan for the protection of the biodiversity and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. The amendment of the Environment Protection Committee has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the bill. So, I am voting on the proposal for a strategy of the Action Plan to protect the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? I find that most votes with 78 votes in favour, 32 votes were abstentions and 2 against the adopted proposal for a revision of the Strategy and the Action Plan for the protection of the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia, together with the amendments adopted. The Committee on Environmental Protection has proposed to the Assembly the following conclusion: "The Professional Service of the Croatian Assembly is hereby authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the motions, a revision of the text of the strategy and of the Action Plan for the Protection of the Biological and Coastal Varieties of the Republic of Croatia prior to publication in the "National Journal" Please include and vote on the proposal of the Environment Protection Committee. Let's vote. Score. This proposal was accepted by 102 votes for, 4 abstentions and nothing against.
