ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u1	Honored ladies and gentlemen. It was an honor for me, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, to open 1. Constituting the session of the Croatian Parliament and temporarily chairing it until the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all and congratulate you on the election for MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Stjepan Mesic. President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Prime Minister for the composition of the Government Dr. [[Applause.]] Ivo Sanader. Attending Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Zeljko Potočnjak. President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia Branko Hrvatin and present representatives of the judicial authority. [[Applause.]] Attorney General Mladen Bajic. [[Applause.]] The current presidents and vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament, present party leaders represented in the Croatian Parliament who are not representatives. [[Applause.]] I welcome the superior Marin Srakic, the president of the Bishop's Conference and the bishop of Djakova-Srijemski. The high-ranking government of Kosic, the assistant bishop of Zagreb, the envoy of the model Cardinal Josip Bozanic, the archbishop of Zagreb. [[Applause.]] Highly consecrated Mr. Jovan Pavlovic, the Metropolitan of the Eparchy of Zagreb-Ljubljanska and the whole of Italy. [[Applause.]] Mufti Ševka efendija Omerbasic, president of the Meshihat Islamic Community in the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] Dr. Crescent. [[Applause.]] Ognjena Krausa, president of the coordination of Jewish municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, president of the Jewish municipality of Zagreb. Mr. Kotel Da-Don, chief rabbi for the Croatian Jewish religious community Bet Israel in Croatia. [[Applause.]] Reverend Mr. Endre Langh, Bishop of the Reformed Christian Church. [[Applause.]] Mr. Branko Beric, General Vicar of the Evangelist Church in the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] I welcome Jurica Malčić's attorney-general, Milo Jelavic, attorney for children and Gordana Lukač Koritnik, Advocate for Gender Equality. [[Applause.]] Chief State Auditor Simu Krasic. [[Applause.]] Representatives of the National Security Service. [[Applause.]] President of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, academician Milan Moš. Ladies and gentlemen rectors and rectors of Croatian universities. [[Applause.]] Mayor of the City of Zagreb and Mr. Mayor of Croatian County. [[Applause.]] Representatives of the Associations of the Homeland War, representatives of the unions, all present representatives of economic, cultural, sports and public institutions and other present guests at the session. [[Applause.]] I welcome the diplomatic assembly in the Republic of Croatia headed by her. E. Franciscom Javier Lozano. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of his powers, the President of the Republic of Croatia held elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament held on 24 and 25 November and 9 December 2007. [[Applause.]] The State Election Commission published official election results for representatives in the Croatian Parliament on 24 December 2007. The President of the Republic of Croatia shall, on the basis of Article 97(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia called the Croatian Parliament for the first session. I would like to inform you that, according to the State Election Commission report, 153 MPs have been elected to the Croatian Parliament since 24 December 2007. According to the records, 110 MPs and MPs have been registered so far. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear guests. After 4 years of the conduct of this high and honorable duty, after 4 years of leading our most democratic and legislative institution, I would like to convey with this short letter my undiscovered satisfaction and honor in the light of the period behind us. The Croatian Parliament held its duty as the highest national representative body at an extremely high level since 22 December 2003. I would like to point out with special satisfaction that this completed the fifth term of office of the Croatian Parliament now falls within the most fruitful period of legislative work in the overall history of the Croatian Parliament. By harmonising Croatia's legislation with European legislation, the Croatian Parliament passed 160 laws, thus the last 5th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament routed Croatia towards Euro-Atlantic integration. First of all, I would like to thank all the representatives and representatives of this call, the Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, the leadership and members of all parliamentary committees and bodies, and the Assembly's professional services for extraordinary cooperation, the tasks accomplished and the objectives achieved. The period we've been through fills me with pride. Political action in principle rarely provides an opportunity to talk about pride. But without false modesty and esteeming the contribution and work of parliamentary representatives and MPs in the previous term, I cannot and do not want to hide pride and satisfaction that we are in challenging and difficult times, faced with demanding tasks responsibly, effectively and in the interest of further achieving strategic objectives we have acted. I recall the circumstances in which the work of the last Parliament began. In many ways, Croatia was at a crossroads at the time. In many ways, Croatia was only then committed and directed after the previous period. It has only been on the verge of a stronger opening to the European Union. It's just starting to turn towards the Atlantic Alliance. The general picture and relations in this part of Europe were still unclear and Croatia was still associated with them in a burdensome way. On the internal plan, it has only just begun to become more strongly involved in reforms that would be completely irrevocably regulated as a country of rule of law, full and consistent respect for human and minority rights, social dialogue and trust. With the beginning of work last term of the Croatian Parliament, Croatia has actually just begun to shape its new face. I mention pleasure and pride for a reason, and I do not believe that all points and arguments of huge differences and recognizable achievements in the past four years should be listed at all. The Croatian Parliament in this country's progress belongs to an undeniable place. The Croatian Parliament has always been the capital of breaking and crucial decisions. On the period behind us, I would like to single out the two components of our parliamentary action in particular. First, the Parliament followed and supported by its legislative powers the massive changes and reforms that the past government had begun to implement with the aim of the country's overall progress in economic but also political-legal, and would dare say in the broadest social context. I think, above all, of legislative activities that strengthened the rule of law, encouraged reform in the judiciary and other areas. Encouraging entrepreneurship, improving the education system, strengthening the contribution of science, promoting the fight against corruption and changing and promoting Croatia's face in all other powers. Secondly, the Parliament has made a strong and recognizable contribution to Croatia's accession to negotiations with the European Union and to strengthen the overall international position of our country. In addition, our path to the Union has begun precisely the 2002 Parliamentary Resolution, and in the previous meeting it was continued with a joint statement by all parliamentary parties on the start of negotiations with the European Union as well as the Declaration on the Fundamental Principles of Negotiations for Full Membership and the Joint Declaration of the Croatian Parliament and the Government on Joint Action in the Negotiations Process. Certainly a special place and meaning is the establishment of the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations and the Continuing Work on the adoption of negotiating positions through which all parliamentary parties agree on this strategic objective of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the specific value of the action of the National Committee as a single parliamentary institution and species in the countries joining the Union is in discharging political and parliamentary life, as well as in sharing responsibilities, authorities and opposition. I firmly believe that this direction should continue and that this model will ensure the rapid and quality completion of our negotiations within the deadlines that we expect in line with the conclusions of the Joint Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union and in accordance with the European Parliament Resolution 2007 which is recommended that in 2009 we agree on Croatia's entry into the European Union. In addition, parliamentary committees, particularly the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation, have made a strong contribution to interparliamentary co-operation and thus to the overall strengthening of the country's international position. For this reason, a special place also belongs to Croatia's participation in the Conference of Presidents of the Parliaments of the South-Eastern European Cooperation Process, which also contributed to the overall action of our country in the further stabilisation of opportunities in this part of Europe. I don't want to forget the high-ranking guests who spoke to this High House over the past period with the other most guests. I believe that also in addressing the President of the European Commission, Barroso, President of the European Parliament Pöttering and NATO Secretary-General Shepher, there was more than symbolism in terms of our aspirations for full membership in both integrations, since both these aspirations strongly and justifiably supported right here in the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! In the past, the parliament has also been a place where democracy continued to be strengthened and to shape the country's mature and responsible political life. Of course, in that sensitive zone perfection is never complete, neither is all lessons, nor are all lessons always taught until the end. There were episodes we'd want to forget. But we must learn the necessary lessons because we must not ignore our responsibility for the overall state of political relations in our society. I end this assessment precisely because I believe that with the new assembly of the Croatian Parliament comes the time when this responsibility will be re-produced and confirmed by the fact that the Croatian Parliament will continue to be fully at the height of its mission and at this stage of Croatia's development. With the wish for successful work of the 6th Assembly, I thank you for your attention. For the Croatian Parliament to be established in accordance with Article 73 [[Applause.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, with the presence of most MPs, should be joined by the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 5 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been established that the right to submit proposals at the Constitutional Session for the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament have club representatives. On the basis of Article 5 of the Croatian Assembly Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, Club of Representatives of the Croatian Social and Liberal Party and Croatian Party of Pensioners, Club of Representatives of the National Minorities and Club of Representatives of the Serbian Democratic Independent Party propose to elect a representative of Mr Luka Bebic for the president of the Croatian Parliament. Would anyone like to explain the proposal other than what was written in writing? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Before we vote, I would like to inform you that the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament requires most of the votes of the present representatives. I am voting on the proposal of these clubs to elect a representative of Mr Luka Bebić as president of the Croatian Parliament. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that with 141 votes for and 3 abstentions, Mr Luka Bebić has been elected president of the Croatian Parliament. I declare that on the basis of the Decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia on the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament was established at the first meeting of the established number of representatives present and the election of the Croatian Parliament president. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I invite you to pay our respects to our country. - I invite all MPs and MPs, all guests, Croatian Parliament to pay tribute in a minute of silence to the country's fallen for the free, sovereign and democratic Croatian heroes of the Homeland War, defenders of Croatia. - A minute of silence - Let them be eternal glory and thank you. I congratulate the President of the Croatian Parliament Mr Luka Bebić on his election and I invite him to address those present and then to take his seat at the Presidential table and continue to chair the session. Here you go, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u2	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the Presidents of the Constitutional and Supreme Court, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests. I want to thank you honestly for this choice. The trust you have shown me by choosing me to lead the most Croatian democratic institution and the highest legislative body at this time is particularly binding and especially because it comes at the beginning of the year which will be unquestionably important and challenging for Croatia in ensuring our country's further progress, at a time when we are coming to the achievement of the most important Croatian state interests and objectives. I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, Vladimir Seks, for the very successful conduct of the Croatian Parliament in the past term. In front of all of this meeting of the Croatian Parliament and the Government on the trust that we will declare tomorrow stands a period that will require exceptional responsibility, special maturity and determined focus on the objectives we have chosen and which our citizens have confirmed in recent elections. The achievements that are obvious, just over the next few years, will need to continue and complete the construction of a modern, European Croatian state and a stable organised Croatian society in order to complete the road that we have been going since this House of Commons made a historic decision on independence. I am convinced that these high goals will be a measure of our shared responsibility. Personally, I would like to assure you that this duty, which you have entrusted me, will be held conscious, sacrificed, and above all responsible. My political experience is my constant commitment to the Croatian national interests and values of democracy. It should also be a guarantee that the joint efforts and the responsible actions of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament will continue, as always in history, achieve the highest national and state interests. I look forward and appreciate the opportunity to work together in these very difficult times, in line with all the political commitment and in persuasion of new political energy with our experience and knowledge so far. I thank you especially for being elected by the votes of all the political sides of this House. I also understand that as a recognition of my work so far and of my overall political action, and I would dare say as a recognition of my own worldly self-control, which comes from the strongest belief that dialogue and trust among people and in society are the irreplaceable basis of stability and the prerequisite for every community's development. But let me point out that I also see this as a sign of our common commitment to the same goals and our willingness to enter Croatia in a new period of development, and in a new period of undisputed entry, Croatian parliamentism enters even more mature and more focused, with even greater measurement and accountability. As one of the veterans of this House, I invite you to be proud of your duty and aware of her behaviour. There is no more or more interest which can be managed by representatives of the Croatian National and State Interests. Let this remain the main idea of leadership in this Assembly and let no other goal and interest power our debates, not echo this hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned responsibility and focus on purpose and for a reason, because of the political period we stand before and because of the parliamentary obligations we are expected to have. On the one hand, the year in which we enter will bring the finality of the most important jobs that the Croatian executive power has focused on since the earliest days of our independence, with a special focus on the internal developmental leap, so that the tasks of the legislative authorities will indeed have to be focused on a strong and effective contribution to achieving these highest goals. I see, therefore, the days when this meeting of the Croatian Parliament will confirm our entry into full membership in both the European Union and NATO. I expect, as much as possible, that the parliamentary bodies and committees, in particular the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations with the European Union, will remain fully and effectively focused on their tasks in the negotiating process in order to ensure a harmony on the quality of the completion of the country's strategic objective. On the other hand, just in the interest of this new developmental leap in Croatia, I would like to remind you that recent elections have confirmed that the citizens of our country expect politics to be a space of responsibility rather than an easy promise of self-expression and mere political trade. People's representatives have to take care of that. The Croatian Parliament should also continue to show the interests of all layers of Croatian society, of all our regions and regions. Our complete commitment to democracy and the rule of law, respect for human and minority rights and religious freedoms, equality and equality of our citizens will also, I am convinced, remain, and will be confirmed in the work of this Assembly. In short, I would say that before the Croatian Year they are so serious and important that our new international position, our full European face and our full belonging to the family of the free and developed democratic world will reflect and have to reflect in this Assembly as well. I especially mention this because of the feeling that we need to start spreading from the Croatian political space into our society messages and values that will prevail now and will be the most noticeable symptoms of unnecessary divisions and feuds, mistrusts and apathy, depravation and irresponsibility, banalisation and rejection. I will advocate that by our joint action in the Parliament, we too become part of the necessary changes and improvements in our atmosphere, the general atmosphere in Croatian society, the restoration of the values of suitable and our folk tradition, identity and European standards and customs. I hold this especially important because of the spirit of time in which we live in which anxiety and unrest are caused by the growth of a whole new world, a political, spiritual one, often hides it by making it easier to reject responsibility and by ignoring its goals too quickly. I also stress this because of the recent entry of Croatia's European security integration. I also stress that because of the known impact of globalisation. I also stress this because under the circumstances of the modern world, and it teaches us history, small countries cannot look narrowly or aim lowly. It is precisely small nations and small countries that have to take care of these circumstances in order to preserve their identity in integration processes. We can only do this by building a trust society to avoid unnecessary divisions, waste of social energy and eliminate multiple harmful anxiety and frustration. The task is the highest representatives of the people, right here to take care of it all the time. Only then will we remain on the historical line of Croatian identity and act in the spirit of all of our model people who are through history, and, by opening up to European and global processes, will we remain on the historical line of Croatian identity and act in the spirit of all of our model people who are through history... and through the history of the Croatian Parliament kept and built our heritage and achieved our goals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mentioned the exemplary people of our history. It has been more than a century and a half since Kukuljevic and then Don Mihovil Pavlinovic made a request for the introduction of Croatian language into the Croatian Parliament. The struggle whose finals are just this meeting of the Croatian Parliament testifys and whose successful completion will be confirmed by this House by its decisions, the struggle for language began right then, the fight for Croatian national rights, the fight for the state, the fight for freedom and membership of the free democratic world. In the historical low number of model people who led the fight by Kukuljevic, Pavlinović, Starcevic, Radic and our first president of the free and independent democratic Croatian Dr Franjo Tudjman, the top representatives of the people, the parliamentary representatives, lined up in the series. Let us remain at that level always for the glory of this history and the fact that in this century’s struggle it took responsibility and determination to ensure victory and achieve goals. Ladies and gentlemen, in the time ahead, we will have to find the best way to develop political pluralism and at the same time strengthen consensus. It seems contradictory, but it's not. It is part of our mission to further strengthen democracy and rule of law in Croatia because no one is more invited to take care of it than we do in the Croatian Parliament. This will ensure that Croatia is further shaped as an orderly and courteous country in which people will live in security and peace. Working in dignity, treating one another in a spirit of trust and mutuality, building a country even better for future generations. But it's part of our mission and to ensure our agreement. We have years ahead of us that require consensus. Above all, a consensus on the strategic issues of political and economic development ahead of us. I believe that tomorrow, before you and in public, they will be fully presented by the government's programme. The more the coalition consensus has already gathered around it. But I believe we need one and one broader social consensus. Namely, we all agree that we should move on. That Croatia must go to a new stage of development and that our legislative body also has a special and important place in this agreement. Citizens voted in favour of the completion and full achievement of our country's strategic goals and expect this parliamentary procedure to be ensured in this assembly. Let it be the idea of the leader of this convocation of the Croatian Assembly. The duty of President of the Croatian Parliament is not easy. But it will be easier to conduct her honorably in that spirit of consent and responsibility. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we approach the agenda of the session. In the materials you received for this session, a possible agenda has been announced. I suggest we set the next agenda for this session. First, the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Secondly, the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report on the elections made. Third, making an oath of counsel. Fourth, the election of vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Fifth, the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. The sixth, election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. And the seventh, election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Legislative Committee. Eighth, discharge and appointment of Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. Ninth, discharge and appointment of Deputy Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. Any of the MPs object to the proposed agenda? I find the agenda accepted. We are now moving to work according to the established agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have announced a session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the legislation on certain laws. However, it seems to me that we should determine before today whether the Assembly continues with the first extraordinary session, establish the agenda of that session, and then know what the working bodies should discuss. As far as I know, it has not been announced that you have called a session.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u6	It seems unknown to you, it is scheduled for the Extraordinary Assembly meeting at 16:00 today, which will continue tomorrow on 12 January 2008, also here at 9.30 p.m., so I ask the committees to prepare their proposals in connection with this Extraordinary session of the Assembly, which is scheduled, I do not know whether the calls have been divided, but in any case there is more than an hour that this session is scheduled, and it reads: Article 197(3) and Article 198. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, with the opinion of the parliamentary party representatives, have been convened by the 2nd extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament for 11 and 12 January 2008. The session will begin on 11 January 2008 at 1600 hours and will take place in "The Great Council" of the Croatian Parliament, Zagreb, St. Mark number six. For the next session, I suggest the agenda: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circumstance of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, 2. Presentation, it will be tomorrow, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the vote of confidence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and 3. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. For more than an hour, this is signed and directed. You will be on the bench, and the Extraordinary session of the Croatian Assembly is at 4:00. I wish you sweet and pleasant and that the committees finish their part. Thank you very much. First, the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure lays down that the proposal for the election of the president, vice-president and members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall be submitted by representatives' clubs. In accordance with Article 105 of The Rules of Procedure found that the Committee had seven members other than the President and the Vice-President. In accordance with the inter-party agreement, representatives' clubs submitted the following proposal: Representative Damir Sesvečan is proposed for the President of the Committee. A representative of Arsen Bauk has been proposed for the Vice-President. Representatives are proposed for members of the Committee: Tomislav Čuljak, Zivko Nenadić, Vladimir Ivković, Ratko Gajica, Vladimir Šišljagić, Ivan Hanžek and Gordana Sobol. Does anyone want to take part in the debate regarding this proposal? If I do not vote on a proposal to elect a president, vice-president and members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's for these proposed candidates? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 144 votes, the proposal is accepted. I declare that the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament has been elected: For President Damir Sesvečan, Vice-President Arsen Bauk, for members Tomislav Culjak, Zivko Nenadić, Vladimir Ivković, Ratko Gajica, Vladimir Šišljagić, Ivan Hanžek and Gordana Sobol. I congratulate the President and the Vice-President and the members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the election and I urge them to hold a session immediately and prepare the report in accordance with Article 6. Croatian Parliament. The session of the Committee will be held in the hall of Janko Draskovic, room number 202/2. By the time the Mandate-Immunity Commission reports are made, I'm setting a 30-minute recess. I thank the guests for their presence at the Constitutional session of the Croatian Parliament and I invite them to join us at the reception on the occasion of the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u10	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the official election results for representatives of the Croatian Parliament of the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia at the 1st session of 11 January 2008. The election for representatives in the Croatian Parliament is based on Article 97(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Articles 5, 6 and 68. The law on election of representatives to the Croatian Parliament and the decision to call elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament was announced by the President of the Republic of Croatia, Stjepan Mesic, and was held on 24 and 25 November 2007. The State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia submitted to Mr Stjepan Mesic to the President of the Republic of Croatia a report on the elections held for representatives in the Croatian Parliament of 22 December 2007 which, during the deadlines for appeal, became final. The Committee found that 153 MPs were elected to the Croatian Assembly in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and 140 MPs were elected from a list of political parties in 10 election units in accordance with the provisions of Article 35. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, 5 MPs from a special list of political parties were elected in accordance with the provisions of Article 40. Laws in the Special Election Unit and 8 representatives of national minorities were elected on the basis of Articles 15 and 16. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Commission found that Article 12 of paragraphs 1 and 2 were in line with Article 12. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, after the disbanding of the Parliament, continued to act on their duties and powers until a new assembly of parliament was established and that the term of office of representatives of the previous Assembly ended on the day of the constitution. On the same day, it shall cease to be the representatives of the previous assembly of members of the Assembly of the bodies and organisations outside the Assembly appointed by the Assembly of Representatives, provided that the appointment is conditional upon the conduct of the duties of representatives, and that day the membership of the working bodies of the Assembly shall cease to be appointed members. Following the statement, the Committee concluded that the term of office of representatives of the previous Assembly ended on the day of the constitution of the Assembly and that the following MPs were elected to the Croatian Parliament in alphabetical order. So, Đurđa Adlešić, Ivo Andrić, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Željka Antunović, Branko Bačić, Ivan Bagarić, Damir Bajs, Milan Bandić, Mladen Barišić, Arsen Bauk, Luka Bebić, Goran Beus Richembergh, Susana Bilić Wardić, Mato Bilnjić, mr. Božo Biškupić, Dragutin Bodakoš, Biljana Borzana, Rade Bošnjak, Dražan Bošnjak, Ivica Buconjic, Perica Bukić, Gari Kapeli, Brankica Crljenko, Radimir Čačić, Nada Čavlović Smiljanec, dr. Ivan Čehok, Lino Cervar, Petar Čovanovic, Mr. Zdenka Chuhnil, Tomislav Culjak, Luka Denon, Prof. Dr. Miljenko Doric, Igor Dragovan, Josip Djakić, Anto Đipić, Mirjana Ferić Vac, Stjepan Fiolić, Gvosden Srecko Flego, PhD. Zdenko Franić, Jošis Friščić, Stipo Gabrić, Ratko Gajica, Božo Galić, Sunčana Glavak, Branimir Glavas, Ivo Grbić, Branko Grčić, Boro Grubišić, Mario Habek, Ivan Hanžek, Prof. dr. Andrija Hebrang, Goran Heffer, Dr. Bojan Hlača, Mirela Holi, Silvano Hrelja, Danica Hursa, Davor Huška, Tomislav Ivković, Vladimir Ivković, Ivan Jakovčić, Gordan Jandroković, Ivan Jarnjak, Nadica Jelaš, Ivo Jelušić, Prof. dr. Ivo Josipovic, Željko Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Ljubo Jurčić, Marin Jurjevic, Damir Kajin, Bozidar Kalmeta, Zdravko Kelić, Nedeljka Klaric, Zlatko Komadina, Zlatko Koračević, Jadanka Kosor, Ante Kotormanović, Prof. Dr. Dr. Dragan Kovačević, Dino Kozlevac, Ante Kulušić, Boris Kunst, Josip Leko, Dragutin Lesar, Slavko Linić, Marina Lovrić, Ana Lovrin, Franjo Lucić, Šime Lučin, Marija Lugarić, Anton Mance, Gordan Maras, Krunoslav Markovinović, Bjanka Matović, Marina Matulić, Frano Matušić, Nazif Memedi, Zoran Milanović, Boris Miletić, Darko Milinović, Neven Mimica, Petar Mlinarić, Mirano Mrić, Marijana Petrić, Živko Nenapić, Milanka Opačić, Rajko Ostojić, Dr.o Žilko Bostovar, Dr. The Commission found that Article 9 was in line with Article 9 of the basic Regulation. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which provides for the non-compliance of parliamentary duties with the simultaneous behaviour of the duties referred to in paragraph 2. acquired the conditions laid down in paragraph 3 of the law for the start of the term of office of representatives: Branko Bačić, Damir Bajs, Milan Bandić, Mladen Barišić, master Božo Biskupić, Ivica Buconjic, Radimir Cacančić, Petar Čobanković, Bozo Galić, Ivan Jakovčić, Ivo Jelušić, Bozidar Kalmeta, Zlatko Komadina, Jadranka Kosor, Marina Lovrić, Ana Lovrin, Bianca Matković, Marina Matulović-Dropulić, Damir Polancec, professor Dr Dragan Primorac, Ivan Šuker, magistrate Ante Sanader, Doctor Ivo Sanader, Dr Ivo Sanader and Branko Sanačelic. The Commission has established that, in accordance with Article 14(1), Article 14(1) has been fulfilled. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has obtained the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary term to the following representatives: Đurđa Adlešić, Lino Cervar, Suncana Glavak, Gordan Jandroković and Darko Milinović. On the basis of Article 12(1) of the Law, political parties have designated candidates for deputy MPs from their list of unselected candidates in the constituencies and have informed the Croatian Parliament accordingly, and are starting to act accordingly: Antun Korushec Deputy Representatives are running in II. election unit as candidate on the list of Croatian Social Liberal Party instead of Djurđe Adlesic, Borislav Matkovic, deputy representative nominated in the Xth election unit as candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Branko Bačić, Miroslav Cacia deputy representative nominated in II. election unit as candidate on the Croatian Peasant Party list instead of Damir Bajs, Davor Bernardić deputy deputy candidate in II. The election unit as a candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia instead of Milan Bandic, Krešimir Gulić, deputy deputy candidate in the 1st election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Mladen Barisic, Angelko Mihalic, deputy representative nominated in III. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of the magistrate God Biskupić, Nevenka Majdenic, deputy deputy candidate candidate in IV. the election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Ivica Buconjic, Zlatko Horvat deputy representative nominated in III. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian People's Party list instead of Radiir Cacic, Dr Nevio Šetić, deputy representative nominated in VIII. The election unit as a candidate for the Croatian Democratic Community instead of Lina Cervara, Kreso Filipović, deputy MP candidate in V. constituency candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Peter Cobankovic, Šimo Djurdjevic, deputy deputy representative run in V. constituency as candidate on the list of Croatian Democratic Communities instead of God Galic, Milivo Škvorc deputy MPs nominated in III. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Suncana Glavak, Marin Brtaric, deputy representative nominated in VIII. the election unit as a candidate on the list of the Istrian Democratic Assembly instead of Ivan Jakovčić, Carmela Caparin, deputy candidate in II. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Gordan Jandrokovic, Bruno Kurelic, deputy representative run for VII. The election unit as a candidate on the Social Democratic Party of Croatia list instead of Ivo Jelusic, Branko Box of deputy MPs run for IX. the election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Bozidar Kalmeta, Romana Jerkovic, deputy candidate in VIII. The election unit as a candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia instead of Zlatka Komadina, Ljubica Lukačić, deputy deputy candidate in the 1st electoral unit as candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Jadranka Kosor, Daniel Mondekar deputy representative nominated in VI. The election unit as a candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, instead of Marine Lovric, Tomislav Vrdoljak, the deputy representative run for IX. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Ana Lovrin, Krešimir Ćosic, deputy representative nominated in II. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Bica Matkovic, Bozica Solic, deputy deputy candidate in VII. The constituency as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list instead of Marine Matulović-Dropulic, Nevenka Marinovic, deputy deputy IX candidate. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Darko Milinovic, Stjepan Milinkovic, deputy deputy candidate in II. candidate election unit on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Damir Polancec, Dr Goran Maric, deputy XI candidate. The constituency as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of professor Dr Dragan Primorac, Vedran Rozic, deputy representative run for IX. The election unit as a candidate for the Croatian Democratic Community instead of the magistrate Ante Sanader, Željana Kalaš, deputy deputy candidate in the Xth election unit as candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Dr Ivo Sanader, Ivanka Roksandic, deputy deputy deputy candidate in VI. the electoral unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Ivan Šuker and Master's Officer Nedjeljko Strikic's Deputy Representative in VII. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Branko Vukelic. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, it proposes that the decision be taken: 11 January 2008 the appointment of the parliamentary mandate begins, and that on that day the parliamentary duty begins to act as deputies of the deputy representative, Mr Antun Korushec, appointed in II. election unit as candidate on the list of Croatian Social Liberal Party instead of Djurđe Adlesic, Borislav Matkovic, deputy representative nominated in the Xth election unit as candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Branko Bačić, Miroslav Cacia deputy representative nominated in II. election unit as candidate on the Croatian Peasant Party list instead of Damir Bajs, Davor Bernardić deputy deputy candidate in II. the election unit as a candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, instead of Milan Bandic, Krešimir Gulić, deputy deputy candidate in the 1st election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Mladen Barisic, Angelko Mihalic, deputy representative nominated in III. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of the magistrate God Biskupić, Nevenka Majdenic, deputy deputy candidate in IV. the election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Ivica Buconjic, Zlatko Horvat deputy representative nominated in III. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian People's Party list instead of Radiir Cacic, Dr Nevio Šetić, deputy representative nominated in VIII. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Line Cervara, Kreso Filipović, deputy deputy MPs run in V. constituency as candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Peter Cobankovic, Šimo Djurdjevic, deputy deputy representative run in V. constituency as candidate on the list of Croatian Democratic Communities instead of God Galic, Milivo Škvorc deputy MPs nominated in III. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Suncana Glavak, Marin Brkaric, deputy representative nominated in VIII. the election unit as a candidate on the list of the Istrian Democratic Assembly instead of Ivan Jakovčić, Carmela Caparin, deputy candidate in II. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Gordan Jandrokovic, Bruno Kurelic, deputy representative run for VII. the election unit as a candidate on the Social Democratic Party of Croatia list instead of Ivo Jelusic, Branko Box of deputy MPs running for IX. the election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Bozidar Kalmeta, Romana Jerkovic, deputy candidate in VIII. the election unit as a candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, instead of Zlatka Komadina, Ljubica Lukačić, deputy deputy candidate in the I. electoral unit as candidate for the Croatian Democratic Community, instead of Jadranka Kosor, Daniel Mondekar, deputy deputy candidate in VI. the election unit as a candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia instead of Marine Lovric, Tomislav Vrdoljak deputy representative in IX. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Ana Lovrin, Krešimir Ćosic, deputy representative nominated in II. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Bianka Matkovic, Bozica Šolić, deputy deputy candidate in VII. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Marine Matulović-Dropulic, Nevenka Marinovic, deputy deputy candidate in IX. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Darko Milinovic, Stjepan Milinkovic, deputy deputy candidate in II. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Damir Polancec, Dr Goran Maric, deputy XI candidate. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of professor Dr Dragan Primorac, Vedran Rozic, deputy representative run for IX. The election unit as a candidate for the Croatian Democratic Community instead of the magistrate Ante Sanader, Željana Kalaš, deputy deputy candidate in the Xth election unit as candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Dr Ivo Sanader, Ivanka Roksandic, deputy deputy deputy candidate in VI. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Ivan Šuker, and Master's General Nedjeljko Strikic Deputy Representative in VII. The election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Branko Vukelic. The conclusion on elected representatives in the Croatian Parliament as well as the decision to open the term of office and to initiate the conduct of their deputies' parliamentary duties will be published in "The People's Journal". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u11	I thank the President of the Commission. I'm opening a debate on this report. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the following conclusion: The report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the elections held for the Croatian Parliament and the names of elected representatives, the names of MPs acting incompatible with the parliamentary duty, and their mandate rests, and the deputies who are starting to act as deputies instead. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you very much. Against? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that this conclusion with 150 votes has been unanimously accepted. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. 3. Advocacy of MPs Following a report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the elections carried out pursuant to Article 7. Rules of Procedure, I call upon you to join in your oath. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the chairperson shall read the text of the oath and thereafter, by name, call the representatives. A representative when called rises and says, "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Now we're going to move on to calling the MPs. Mr. Agent Ivo Andrić, Ms. Agent Ingrid Antičević-Marinović - I swear to you, Madam Representative Željko Antunović – Mr. Ivan Bagarić – I swear, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk – I swear to you, representative Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Miržam-Richembergh - I swear to you, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Borzana, Mr. Rade Bošnjak - I swear, Mr. Zast. - Mr. Dragutin Bodakoš - Mr. Zast. - Mr. Mr. Mr. Miržažažažam, Mr. Žažažažam - Mr. Žažaž, Mr. Žažaž, Mr. Žažažažak, Mr. Thank you very much, everyone. Congratulations to all MPs and MPs on their sworn oath and I wish them success in performing an honorable and responsible representative's duty. I wish you. Now we're going to the fourth item of the agenda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u14	Mr. President, based on Article 231. We propose a public vote to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u15	Thank you very much. So we move on to, I propose to vote on the club proposals, it is the parliamentary majority clubs, to elect Mr. Vladimir Seks as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Thank you very much. Against? There isn't. Abstained? Three. Thank you very much. I note that the proposal was accepted with three abstentions by 147 for and 3 abstentions. I congratulate the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Vladimir Seks, and I wish him to carry out this honorable duty successfully as the President of the Croatian Parliament, and in a way that we are all focused on the good performance of all the duties to which the Croatian Parliament will elect us. I am voting on the proposal for clubs to elect Mr. Ivan Jarnjak as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Who's in? Thank you very much. Against? There isn't. The abstentions? 146 MPs voted in favour, with four MPs abstentioned. I find that the proposal has been accepted with 146 votes for and 4 abstentions. I now declare that Mr Ivan Jarnjak has been elected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament to whom I also congratulate. I am voting on the proposal for clubs to elect Mr Josip Friščić as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Who's in? Thank you. Against? One. The abstentions? I note that the proposal has been accepted by 148 votes in favour, one vote against and two abstentions, and I declare that Mr Josip Friscic, the vice president of the Croatian Parliament, has been elected to whom I also warmly congratulate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u16	Mr. President, on behalf of the majority club, we suggest that for the remaining members of the vice-presidential candidate, the vote should be postponed until the second session is agreed upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u17	Does anyone else have an opinion? So it is proposed to postpone, since three candidates and two are elected, to postpone the election for the next session of the Assembly of these two vice-presidents, with a desire to make additional consultations and then to choose at the next session of the Assembly these two vice-presidents from the ranks of the opposition, if I understand this proposal correctly. Here you go, Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u18	... There is an interesting situation, it's about the election of vice presidents from the opposition section of parliament, so why do I think the HDZ club is proposing who he's going to consult with or maybe something you have a special idea or you're enough with an idea like this presented to the Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] I think it's interesting who suggested the proposal, I think you would have to, if it were an unusual practice, perhaps Mr. President you could consider and consult whether this kind of proposal, makes sense to adopt it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u19	This is one of the suggestions. I asked, here are some other suggestions, different opinions, because we're going to vote on this proposal, you know. We're going to vote on this proposal and now I'm asking if there are any other suggestions. I would like to believe that this proposal has been presented with a desire and goal of reaching a proposal for candidates for the Croatian Parliament in the ranks of opposition in the Croatian Parliament. It was also possible to make this period of a few days or two, three days, but obviously now there are three proposals. Now I'm asking that question if anyone has any other suggestions. If not, I'll put this proposal to Mr. Andrija Hebrang's vote. Mr. Damir Cain, agent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u20	Your Honor, Mr. President. I think it would be correct if that proposal Mr. Hebrang made came from the ranks of the opposition, meaning SDP and HNS, and there is no Mr. Hebrang, I suppose, is the non-compromising role of SDP and HNS clubs now. Here, I suggest you vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u21	There's always good peace proposals, no matter where it comes from. Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u22	Mr. President. It is true that it is an unusual practice, but it is just as unusual a practice that we have more candidates from the ranks of opposition parties and opposition MPs than there are places, and I can say on behalf of HSLS and HSU that we do not want in any way to arbitration or to make decisions as representatives of the parliamentary majority, and it is symptomatic that Damir Kajin did not count the IDS in opposition, but only that the opposition of SDP and HNS should be agreed, so it is possible that the IDS will be negotiated if it is an opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u23	I hereby inform the Croatian Parliament that, as former president of the HDZ Club, I have called all the opposition clubs where we have talked about committees and the structure of the board and the election of vice presidents. I think it's good intentions to get out of the lines of opposition where IDS will participate, of course he participated in some proposal. We don't have to break this thing over our knees today and I suggest, and I see Mr Milanovic agrees to postpone for the next session. Here's the word, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As far as the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party is concerned, we believe that there are all the conditions for the Parliament to vote today and for the remaining two vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament, but we also have no objection to the motion of fellow Hebrang to postpone this for the next session. So, as far as we're concerned, we're ready to approach the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u25	Thank you very much. If there are no other questions or suggestions, I place on the vote Mr. Andrija Hebrang's proposal to postpone the election of two members, the two vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament for the next session. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Abstained? This proposal was voted against by 90 MPs, against 55, and was abstentioned 5. So, the election of two vice presidents in the Croatian Parliament will be postponed for the next session. Thank you very much. We move to the 7th point of the agenda – 7. The selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure states that a proposal for the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Elections, appointments and administrative tasks at the Constitutional Session may be submitted to the Clubs of Representatives. Article... The Rules of Procedure have been established that the Committee on Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs has the President, Vice-President and 11 members. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the inter-party agreement, representatives' clubs submitted the following proposal: Mr Zdravko Ronko was proposed to the chairman of the Committee. Representativesplatić, Krunoslav Markovinović, Ivan Vučić, Antun Mance, Nazif Memedi, Zlatko Gajica, Miljenko Doric and Marin Brkavic were proposed for the Committee members. Yes, Željka Antunović, Nenad Stazic and Zdenko Franić. This is a club proposal. I'm opening a debate. I am concluding the debate and voting on the proposal for the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs. Who's in? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Abstained? There isn't. I find that the motion has been unanimously accepted and that I do not read these MPs who have been elected. I congratulate the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Committee on Elections and Appointments and I invite them to hold a session of the Committee immediately to prepare a proposal for decisions to elect the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Legislatives. The Committee session will be held immediately at the "Janka Draškovića" hall of room 202/2 on the second floor, so I will set a 15-minute break and we will return to the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u28	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. At the 1st session held on 11 January 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Vladimir Seks, Vice-President Josip Leko, for members Drazen Bošnjaković, Emil Tomljanović, Damir Sesvečan, Zvonimir Puljić, Ivo Grbić, Šemso Tanković, Dragutin Lesar, Zoran Milanović, Ivo Josipović, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović and Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u29	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Mariana Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u30	Your Honor, Mr. President, the House of Representatives Club of the HSS has also made a proposal, so I don't know if it may have arrived in time for your board meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u31	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u32	I am saying that the club of representatives of the HSS has proposed its member for the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of Mr. Josip Fristic, so I suppose it may not have come to your committee meeting and you have not considered it. So that's the proposal of the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u33	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u34	We have a proposal where the HSS club signed it. Mr. Friscic said he agrees with this proposal that the board made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u35	Thank you. Please, there will be more committees and can be compensated if there is not enough talk somewhere and we have concluded with Mr Fristic that it goes like this and that on other committees it will naturally be represented in accordance with the rules of procedure. Mr. Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u36	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Apparently, colleagues from the HSS remained a little confused after the board's session. In fact, although the clubs referred to the President of the Assembly their proposals, none of these written proposals could be found and therefore the session of the board lasted 15 minutes but an hour and 15 minutes because they had to leave, visit all the clubs, receive copies of our correspondence in order to make a proposal for the composition of the committee at all. I'm asking you not to do this in the future because it really doesn't look like anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u37	Thank you very much. I agree with your objection. I mean, we're just starting to work, there's a little bit of a discrepancy, so consider it. In the future, we will try to make it smaller and make sure that all relevant documents are on the committees and other bodies of the Parliament that are being discussed. So, with this proposal, there is agreement. I put to the vote the motion to elect a president, vice-president and members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system as stated by the chairman of the Committee. Who's in? Thank you very much. Against? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 136 votes, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, composed of President Vladimir Seks, Vice-President Josip Leko, members Drazen Bosnjak, Emil Tomljanović, Damir Sesvečan, Zvonimir Puljic, Ivo Grbić, Šemso Tanković, Dragutin Lesar, Zoran Milanović, Ivo Josipovic, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović and Tonino Picula were elected unanimously. I congratulate the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. We are moving on to the selection of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Legislative Committee. Nine. The election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Legislative Committee of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure has been established that the Committee on Legislatives has a chair, vice-president and eleven members of the Bureau and nine other members are appointed from the order of scientific and professional staff. I ask the board president, Ms. Nevenko Majdenic, to present the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u39	The Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, held at the 1st session held on 11 January 2008, unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Drazen Bošnjaković, Vice-President of Mrs. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, members of Emil Tomljanović, Bojan Hlača, Ivo Grbić, Damir Sesvečan, Zdenka Čuhnil, Vladimir Ivković, Zlatko Horvat, Ivo Josipović, Boris Šprem, Nada Čavlović-Smiljanec and Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u40	... I'm opening a debate. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] I'm closing the debate. I propose to vote, the proposal tabled by the chairman of the Committee on Elections and Appointments that you have heard. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that with 136 votes for unanimous election of the Committee of Law in Drazen Bošnjaković, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović as vice president, members Emil Tomljanović, Bojan Hlaća, Ivo Grbić, Damir Sesvečan, Zdenka Čuhnil, Vladimir Ivković, Zlatko Hovrt, Ivo Josipović, Boris Šprem, Nada... Smiljanec and Ranko Ostovic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Congratulations, President, Vice-Presidents and members of the Legislative Committee! We move on to the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of the appointment of the Secretary of Croatia. 5. The appointment of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament of the Proposal for a Decision was submitted by the HDZ Representatives Club in accordance with Article 5. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the motion for an act at the session. Opening debate Intruder: No, but now he's a secretary... [[What secretary? Deputy Secretary or Secretary? The secretary and the deputy secretary. .../]] For the secretary, he's a secretary now. The secretary. ... [[Intruder: Secretary resolutions.]] Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And I am voting to propose that Mr. Joseph Sesar be resolved for the secretary first, and at the same time, first the resolution. Here you go. Who's to be resolved, raise your hand? Thank you very much. Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that Mr. Joseph Sesar has been relieved of his duties as Secretary of Parliament. I would like to put the motion to vote, to appoint Secretary of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Josip Sesar. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that Mr. Joseph Sesar has been appointed Secretary of Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u43	Dear Mr. President, congratulations on your choice. But what grieves me, I congratulate the vice presidents, but what grieves me, why does Mrs. Jadranka Blažević move? Why is Mrs. Secretary of this House moving? If that's her decision, then O.K., if it's not, then it's rude. And Mrs. Blažević, laughing at you HDZ gentlemen or not, is part of this House. One of us who spent 10, 12, I don't know, 15 or more years. I dare say it's an institution. On more than one occasion, I have been elected to the Croatian Parliament, I have never hidden behind anyone's name and with this experience I recognize and respect the parliamentary veterans. And Mr. Luka Bebić and Vladimir Seks and you, Mr. Jarnjak, I've been held back for each other and for the other and for the third, but I respect the fact that you've spent 18, some 15, I don't know, 12 years in this House. With many, with many, of what has been heard from you here, either I didn't agree or vice versa, or you with my statements, but these are people, I admit that they have marked a period in Croatia. We have often been in the merciless polemics but respect as such has never been missed. If we respect each other in some way, then I should respect some of the other people in this House, whether it's the guards, whether it's the waiters, whether it's the secretaries or the deputies of this House. Why am I saying that? So I'm saying that because the world doesn't start today on January 11th 2008. Mr. Shakespeare allegedly brought in two of his secretaries, allegedly one of them was appointed by the government, but Mr. Shakespeare didn't change anyone, and I respect that. And that's Mr. Shakespeare one of the reasons I've been held back this year about your status, last time we were against it. Mr. Shakespeare hasn't changed anyone. The President of the Parliament is autonomous, he has the right to surround himself with people of his full trust. But I'm going to say one more time, let him respect the institutions. After four years and his picture will hang in this room 133 Kukulevich's, it's a huge honor, but I don't think this is a good sign. But no matter what, it's clear, once again, I want every good thing to those who have taken responsibility for presenting this House. And I want to believe that in some way we're going to be a lot more autonomous, that in some way we're going to be far more autonomous than we've ever been before. And so much we will be against Mrs. Jadranka Blažević's resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u44	Thank you very much. There's one correction, Mr. Andrija Hebrang, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is incorrect that someone, as my colleague said, quotes: "It moves Mrs. Jadranka Blažević.". We gave this proposal because we talked to Mrs Blažević, and she told us she filed for retirement. So it's not about moving, it's about asking. ... That's what she told us. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] She also told me this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u46	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u47	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I must say on behalf of the SDP Club that we are simply surprised that Mrs Jadranka Blažević is moving. We think that the ruling majority has the right to name as we did this morning and to support, therefore, from the President of Parliament, Vice-President of Parliament. However, we believe that the secretary of the Plenary session is someone who primarily does professional work, so it is a person who has nothing to do with politics, a person who at this table here, but also generally cares about the functioning of the Parliament, about the functioning of the Plenary Session. And it is indeed an extraordinary business, therefore, professional rather than political business. Mrs. Jadranka Blažević, indeed, has become an institution in this building, full, therefore, for 17 years she has been doing these jobs. Until now, therefore, all the sessions have been incessantly functioning, all the Presidents of the Parliament can confirm it. And here, my colleague Seks can confirm that Mrs Blažević has always done her job professionally and that it would be very easy to work and work with her as her first associate. This morning you can see how the new frames work. Papers are being lost this morning, but there are some things that don't work in this room this morning because it's just not easy to do this job. He needs to be taught. This is a job that has been achieved by working for years in Parliament. And I don't think it's even the exact fact that it's just been presented, which is that Mrs. Blažević is retired. As far as I know, Mrs Blažević still doesn't have the conditions for retirement. Mrs Blažević has no conditions for retirement. So here it is, however, that you decided to put a political person in that place rather than a professional person. And that's why the SDP club won't be able to support your new staff solution. So we think this job is strictly a profession. And Mrs. Jadranka Blažević has done her job very professionally so far and has indeed become some kind of institution in this building. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u49	Mr. President! Not to repeat what my colleague Opacic said on behalf of the club. I would like to point out in particular that one personal discrepancies with the departure or re-nomination of Mrs Blažević from this function. Mrs Blažević did not have any objections to her work. She was objective to all MPs either coming from the ruling or from the opposition. And then when the authorities changed. She acted accordingly, always the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Now that's why there's no room for that kind of work anymore. So, what kind of message does the new government send? That the people who enforce the law, who stick to the Rules of Procedure here, have nothing to do because they've done well. And also, since that's how it is sent here and false arguments, so the exact data is rectified again under the firm, or this correctional rod, or correctional curve, because it's not exactly what his colleague Hebrang said he talked to Mrs Hebrang about because she's retired. It's just... She's with her colleague Blažević because she's retired. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] She couldn't tell you because she doesn't retire or have any conditions... Well, that's not... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, she was waving her head off while you said it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u50	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u51	Mr. President of the Parliament! It is rare to find a person who is as consciously and professionally doing his job as Mrs Blažević did. The presidents of the Parliament may testify in previous terms. Mrs Blažević has always tried to help the representatives in their work, to ensure smooth, quality work at this session. This isn't a human question. This is a human question. And this is a test of the new parliamentary majority's behaviour. This will be a test of their humanity. If in the first session, the constitutional, solemn parliamentary majority, the coalition that makes the parliamentary majority, the representatives of minorities, the HSS will raise their hands for such a shift, a clean-up, a groundless one, when Mrs Blažević needs another year until retirement conditions. If he accepts that Mr. Hebrang here deceives them by claiming that Mrs. Blažević has filed some request for retirement and she has not, then gentlemen, the HDZ coalition partners will show her true dimension to her humanity. I'm not surprised the HDZ is proposing this. That's what I expected from HDZ. But I must admit, I expect you not to accept this shift and vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u52	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u53	Mrs. Blažević! If you are relieved today, I want to thank you for everything that has been done for this House. And I ask you to forgive them, for they clearly know neither what they say nor what they do. [[Intruder: Warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u54	I would not like to begin the chairmanship of the Croatian Assembly with some warnings. I think it's quite an offensive remark, Mr. Doric. And I ask the representatives to refrain from such qualifications and that we do not have to begin the session of this House with such unmoderate statements. I hope we don't continue this session. He has the word Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u55	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! This morning you began your session and your presidency's mandate with a speech that could read the hope that we would all be above the divide, above some political narrowness despite all the political differences that exist between us and that is why we are in different parties, different political options. But you will start badly, not you, but the ruling coalition along with you, replacing Mrs Blažević, who is indeed, it could be seen from these words that have been said. And I am convinced that every HDZ agent thinks the same thing about Mrs Blažević's opinion, that she is an expert, that a person who never put his personal beliefs of any kind above the work we do here, and that's what you were talking about this morning and spilled some hope in this hall, that we can be above those divisions. With these dear colleagues of the ruling coalition, you show that you are below the level of what you have today as a principle as president of this High House, which represents the sovereignty of the Croatian people. And that is why I regret, I also regret the message we send to the Croatian public that is not good. What does it say isn't about expertise, it's about some kind of loyalty that I don't understand what loyalty is about? It's not commitment to work, it's not loyalty to what the secretary's duty is, it's something else. It's a bad message, it's a terrible message, it's a message that nobody starts well with and at least the Supreme Legislative Body in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u56	Mr. Representative, if there's something below the level or not below the level, this is not exactly some particular example of what we're arguing about here. There will be plenty of reasons in our debates in future work in the Croatian Parliament for such or such judgments. I think you've gone a little too far. I hope that this will not be your main reason to bring to the very beginning of the session of this House such an assessment of that level or below the level as you have expressed yourself. Yes, first he asked for the word Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u57	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, I would ask you on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club not to make this decision today because the explanation of the reasons for the resolution that they gave is clearly not correct. In order to have time and subsequent checks and consultations to make the wisest and smartest decision without arbitration, please make a decision at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u58	Thank you very much. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Representative. Here you go... [[Intruder: Vinkovic Zoran.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u59	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives here is that in the first meeting I am also sorry immediately because I have failed to read the entire Rules of Procedure but as far as I have seen for me, this is a sacred home, a home in which laws are passed that affect the future of this country. I would ask you, as president of this House, to give notice to your own MPs who do not use democratic methods. Mr. Representative was just quoting the Bible, and you didn't give a warning because they were yelling from the scene. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u60	Mr. Representative, thank you for your good wishes. Thank you for wanting this to start properly, and I want it to happen. And these aren't my own agents. You're all my agents. That's one thing. The second thing is, we're going to go over the incorrect lifting of the infringement plate of the Rules of Procedure because it's known when and how this plate is used to hurt the Rules of Procedure, so we're going to ignore that circumstance and we're going to move on, this time. Mr. Ivan Jarnjak, vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u61	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd just like to say a few words. First of all, it's not about the shift, it's about the end of today, both the secretary and the deputy secretary. Therefore, the mandate expires and is resolved as the secretary has resolved and a new man or the same man is named afterwards, depending on it. Another thing I would like to say is that at this table where Mrs Blažević is now sitting, Kikerec and Sikerić, Zivkovic and Klasic and Danica Orcic were sitting. Well, just during the 2000-2003 coalition government when Mr. Tomcic chaired this place for a while, Danica Orcic was sitting as a secretary. It is logical, then, to point out to someone that a solution must be given and it is logical to appoint the same person or another person. So we need to talk here first about the resolution after the end of the term of office and only then talk about the other person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u62	Thank you. No one's answering for a word anymore. I hereby conclude the debate and vote on the motion for a decision on the discharge of Mrs Jadranka Blažević from office Deputy Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Who's in? What? [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u63	I apologize, Mr. President. I submitted on behalf of the Club a proposal that the Parliament today does not decide. I'd like to ask you to put the club's proposal to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-0.u64	The proposal of the HNS Club is to postpone the decision on this proposal. As Mr. Jarnjak explained to Mrs. Jadranka Blažević, the mandate has expired and a resolution is being discussed. Who's to propose to postpone the decision as Mr. Lesar formulated? Please count. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? For 63 MPs, against 77 MPs. That proposal was not accepted. I give the Committee's proposal, decisions on the discharge of Jadranka Blažević from the duties of Deputy Secretary of Parliament. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Restraint? Please repeat the vote, since there have been more abstentions. I ask again, who is to be resolved by Mrs. Jadranka Blažević to raise her hand? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you very much. 77 for, 55 against, eight abstentions. I find that Mrs. Jadranka Blažević has been relieved of the duties of Deputy Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. I am taking the opportunity to thank Mrs. Jadranka Blažević for her years of dedicated, professional and successful work in the Croatian Assembly not only for this duty but for a series of duties she has performed so far, and I remember that in the 1990s. Thank you very much. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint Ivan Bukarica as deputy secretary of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Restraint? 77 MPs voted in favour, against 60 and with 3 abstentions, and I confirm that Mr Ivan Bukarica was elected Deputy Secretary of the Croatian Parliament.
