ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23400	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs, the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school was adopted in 2006, and the Law on Supplements to the Law on elementary and secondary school textbooks was adopted at the end of that year, which was then determined to provide textbooks and other educational means for compulsory education with the resources of the state budget. Thus, the availability of education is facilitated, especially by the most significant educational population, or children. I will also remind you that in June 2007 a national programme of measures for the introduction of compulsory secondary education was adopted, and in this document that you have adopted, so-called. encouraging measures because we did not want to impose compulsory education by legal coercion, but gradually by encouraging measures, so when the cycle is over then we can also think about norming. Among other incentive measures, it has been said that the textbooks and resources of the state budget for first-class students will be provided, 2007/2008. and then gradually year by year and for other generations of students until the cycle is complete. The application of the law at this time has so far pointed to certain difficulties and not consistency, above all in the determination, selection and cost of textbooks and, ultimately, to the distribution of textbooks. In accordance with the applicable law, the textbook implies an unlimited number of supplementary teaching tools, so work notebooks, collection of tasks, geographical and historical atlases, which are printed separately from the textbook as a basic teaching tool. As a result of that provision, the textbooks have increased the number of different supplementary teaching tools that are not necessarily necessary for the implementation of the teaching process. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on elementary and secondary school textbooks with the final draft law separates the work notebook, the collection of tasks, the geographical atlas, the historical atlas, the art map and the electronic textbook as other teaching means from the concept of textbooks instead of the current definition of the supplementary teaching tool as a textbook. This significantly facilitates the planning and acquisition of textbooks. So, so far, we have been in a position to pay from the state budget funds what the school ordered, and many times this with the textbook was three or four additional teaching tools, which of course not only increased the price, but also increased the number of textbooks that the student should wear to school. The draft law sets out how the state budget provides funds for the procurement of textbooks and other educational means in primary and secondary schools according to the number of students and limits for the purchase of textbooks and other curricula by a student who is determined depending on the type of school, education programme and class, starting with the average cost, the production of textbooks and these limits is prescribed by the Ministry. On the basis of their needs and secured resources according to the limits, a student, or a teacher, chooses textbooks and other educational means and the school implements their public procurement process, unlike the way they have been distributed free textbooks conducted by the Education and Education Agency and in which schools have no financial limitations in ordering textbooks. We predict that not using teaching tools, schools can be used to obtain practical methodical means and aids and rules on the preservation and use of textbooks and other educational means of school are prescribed by their general instruments. Schools are required after the publication of the textbook catalogue and no later than 31 March start the procurement procedure. For the purchase of textbooks in these amendments and additions to the laws, we also provide for the establishment of monetary participations, parents, or guardians, students and the manner of payment of monetary participation based on a personal identification number will be prescribed by the minister. The procedure for the approval of new textbooks for the next school year would begin on new dates, so it is always necessary to set one date per year, namely, the tender has been continuous, it has been opened all year, but it is necessary to set the date due to procedures in the ministry itself. So far, it's December 1st, we're now predicting it to be September 1st. With the request to approve the textbooks, the publishers were to deliver six copies, we now predict that it should be less, that it should be 4. Furthermore, in the process of approving textbooks, commissions participate, so the author is undoubtedly an expert on a particular subject, it is the first level, in the second level of two reviewers, giving their reviews on the proposed manuscript, and then in the ministry, the committee assesses according to the textbook's curricula and programme and in some situations determines the need for textbooks, it is a protection for those extreme situations so that it would not happen that some textbook comes into the first class, and even the work book and children have not yet learned to read and write, so here I underline only in such extreme situations the expert commission will assess whether it is necessary, of course, in the largest number of cases not. So far, the professional commissions have had five members, and now we propose to be three members, so we don't really disrupt the structure, we'll remain an expert in the area, we'll remain a Methodist and remain a practitioner. So far, there have been three practitioners, we believe that this is not necessary, and that will actually reduce the cost of commission work. I'll remind you here that we hire about 550 experts every year. Now that number will be significantly smaller, I would say, not only will the funds be saved but it will actually be able to be faster, or more expedient, because while all five are studying the texts, while they agree, it will take a little longer, and this time we think that the time will still be summed up. By proposing the law, this law makes it impossible to practice the multiple appearance of the same publishers, and we have here predicted that one publisher is running for one textbook for one subject. So by now it could have been more. We further restrict the possibility of frequent textbook changes in this proposal. So far, it has been up to 20% that it can be changed, but now we say if these are substantive changes because of what has been known in some cases to happen to change some photos, change some charts, some illustrations, and then there's this famous percentage. We still think it's better to attach to that content part. So we're giving up the new textbooks as we've determined 3+3. We agreed here that this is necessary for quality and that these three that are in reserve will actually contribute to the quality of the textbook and bind to a percentage, so up to 10%. We think that's a solution that was good. We have prevented a conflict of interest related to family ties with publishers or authors, and now we have expanded it so that they cannot be in either, so members of the expert commission can no longer be in a business relationship which is actually very important and we feel that this should certainly be introduced. And when it comes to the withdrawal of textbooks so far, it has been a solution to do so together by the publishers, but since the author and the publisher have a mutual contract, it is quite enough to say that it is the publisher, so we have now decided on such a solution. And at the end of the respected MPs and MPs, we believe that this is how we introduce restrictions per student, according to our educational programme, that we will be able to plan better. There's always a plan size. We now have this plan size in the state budget and we hope to make it much more rational this year. Namely, the solution that was left for us would probably take about 650 million kunas to get new textbooks, only to enter the third grade of high school, and this solution provides that the entire system and the third and fourth classes should be included so that all students are in the same position. I am ultimately obliged to say that our parent committee, of course, and the other committees, have discussed this bill very thoroughly. I thank you, I thank you for this help, Honorable President Selem, and we are inclined to accept these amendments which you will present in your address to the Croatian Assembly, so that your argument that it is not one textbook from one publisher is indeed in place and you have made a good judgment because it could indeed happen if a publisher is running two textbooks. One gets 30%, the other gets 20% to lose the 20%, and that's not good. As well as you have assessed, of course, when it comes to obtaining more centrally and that it can be more favourable than any school that has never conducted this procurement procedure. And ultimately, your suggestion when it comes to "curiculum" is really acceptable, so we will gladly accept such solutions by keeping one piece of it in transitional provisions until we do, then we will apply curricula and programmes. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23401	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The chairman of the board, Mr. Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23402	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is one of the most important items in the Committee on Education, Science and Culture lately. The debate was very thorough. The Committee considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on elementary and secondary textbooks at its 10th session on 4 December of this year. And that debated him clearly as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. Thus, the proposal certainly brings about an amendment to the Law on elementary and secondary textbooks published in "National Journals" No. 36 since March 2006 and has been supplemented by the Law on Supplements to the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools since December 2006. The introductory text of this proposal shows that the proposed Government of the Republic of Croatia points out 12 reasons why it proposes amendments and additions. These include: improvement in the system and work of expert committees to assess the need to use textbooks and determine compliance with the curriculum. Furthermore, the change in the definition of textbooks and supplementary teaching tools. Then the ratio of the state budget to the acquisition of textbooks that would basically remain free but establish restrictions, participation. Then preventing the possibility of one publisher offering more textbooks for one teaching course in the same period and spreading the concept of conflict of interest to cases where members of expert committees are not only in the family who has been so far but in a business relationship with publishers and authors of textbooks. The discussion points out the disagreement between the definition of textbooks in Article 1 and Article 2 of the Law, since Article 1 of the textbook considers itself to be a basic teaching tool in the form of a book while Article 2 provides that the textbook is a basic teaching tool published in printed and other forms. The participants of the debate also paid attention to the proposal on the participation of pupils or parents on the occasion of obtaining textbooks by raising the issue of budgetary and financial restrictions, by means of objectively establishing a social moment if participation was introduced and, in particular, with organisational issues, as well as the role of a sublegal act that would bring the issue closer to regulation. Among the issues for the debate, it was found that the proposal was not the best solution... the proposed restriction referred to in Article 18, according to which only one textbook with the highest percentage of representation for each teaching course in one class of the same education programme could be introduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second issue raised by the biggest debate was the regime for the procurement of textbooks under the conditions of legally regulated public procurement of state authorities and users of the state budget. Participants agree that the proposed solution should be avoided, which would lead to more than 1300 schools conducting tenders or a prescribed way of public procurement and a solution aimed at uniting the tendering and implementation of tenders preferably at the Education and Education Agency. A critical review shall be submitted to the debate and a solution whereby, leading its own policy, the procurement of school textbooks could be a means that would thus possibly save the use of the funds for the purpose provided for in Article 4(5) of the Law, in particular given the possibility of a permanent abuse of such a solution that the applicant certainly did not take account of. The above issues have found the largest part of the terms in the amendments to the draft legislation proposed by the Committee. In addition, some fundamental issues have been highlighted in the debate, the underlying reasons for the alleged populational decline in the quality of textbooks. It is also indicated that other circumstances could raise the quality of textbooks, the composition of evaluation bodies, the anonymity of applications and the like. After the debate, the committee concluded, by majority, votes 7 for and 2 abstentions. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools along with the following amendments. I don't think there's any need for Mr. President to read those amendments because they're attached to the text. I would just say that a very nice co-operation has been achieved in the formulation of these amendments between the committee members and the proposing representatives. So, indeed, better solutions have been sought, and I am convinced that these amendments that are before you really contribute to the law that we are going to adopt today or these days be better and better quality, and that it clearly corresponds to what is most important to us, which are our children and our disciples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23403	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr Furio Radin, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23404	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has debated this law thoroughly because it is intruding into some fundamental human rights and minority rights in some parts. A number of comments were raised in the debate on the proposed solutions, with an assessment that some of them could, in practice, be able to address solutions that might in practice lead to additional difficulties, and certain provisions and different interpretations which question the very purpose of the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. When it comes to the introduction of participation of parents, i.e. custodian for the purchase of textbooks and other curricula, the opinion has been expressed that it is a matter concerning the rights of citizens, so it is not acceptable for the minister to decide on this without any legal criteria laid down as provided for in Article 15. Final bill. It has been warned that the rights and criteria for their implementation can only be prescribed by law. It is also pointed out that such a proposal encroachs on children's rights, creating differences between them based on the property of their parents, and this is not about the rights of parents but on the rights of children. A number of remarks have also been made to the provisions relating to textbooks and other teaching tools in the language and letter of national minorities. It has been pointed out that this teaching has been followed for many years by the problem of the lack of necessary textbooks, and that the proposed solutions in the final bill will not only help solve this problem, but that some of them can further complicate the problem by introducing additional procedures. It's specifically pointed to the following. As a result of the small charge and the higher cost of issuing textbooks in the language and letter of national minorities, it is inevitable that the state budget participates in co-financing of their costs and, in practice, seems to be regulated by law for many years, this problem should be complemented in this respect by Article 4 of the Law governing the financing of the purchase of textbooks by means of State budget funds. The submission of applications for the approval of textbooks for schools in the language and letter of national minorities that are only translations of textbooks originally provided in Croatian should be simplified. Namely, since these textbooks as Croatian editions have passed all the approval procedures provided for by the law, there is no reason for their translation into the language and letter of the national minority to repeat the whole procedure once again, but only the draft should be done eventually, the translation review. When it comes to teaching textbooks in the language and letter of national minorities imported from the country of origin, it is not a key problem for them to approve for which the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are without reason introduced by a highly restrictive regime rather than by a whole series of other problems which are not addressed by this proposal of the law. Thus, even if the right to use textbooks from the country of origin is established by the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities, it is precisely written that this is possible of course to remain open, open issues such as: importing entities, import procedures, choice of textbooks, financing imports, applicant for authorisation of textbooks and others. As one of the solutions to this problem in the debate, it is proposed to lay down a provision to determine that the ministry will lay down the procedure by special regulation, although we are aware that the specific rules are always subjective because Parliament does not have any authority in them. As regards the provisions of Article 9 The final proposal for a law governing the composition of a committee to determine the consistency of textbooks used in the language and letter of the national minority has expressed the opinion that the proposed provisions are further complicated and unnecessarily accumulated the issue of textbooks for that teaching. All this will extend the process of publishing textbooks in a situation where the lack of textbooks is one of the most difficult problems facing teaching in the language and letter of national minorities. For those textbooks which are expensive because of small fees and specific costs, the establishment of a higher commission whose number and composition are unclearly defined in the proposed provisions is envisaged. That is how the term scientist and expert is used in paragraph 6 of this Act, and in subparagraph 4, the term scientist or expert. It is unclear from the formulation of these provisions whether it is part of the commission to which the methodist enters or does not enter, so it cannot be concluded with certainty how many members of the committee should have two or three. If the proposal were to accept that the issue of importing and approving textbooks from the language and letter of the national minorities should be governed by a special Regulation of the Ministry, that subparagraph 4 would be exceeded. When it comes to a committee for textbooks translated into the language and letter of the national minority in Croatian, all three members of the commission are intended to be teachers or teachers of a particular teaching class working in the language and letter of the national minority. Since this is about textbooks that have already passed the approval procedure for us, it is only important for the translation to be language correct, so the composition of the commission to meet this particular need. Finally, an opinion was expressed when it comes to Article 15. The final proposal for a law amending Article 13 of the Law should provide that national minorities are not subject to the deadlines laid down in Articles 6, 15 and 16 of the Law but should not be excluded from the other provisions of Article 15. It is also pointed out that this provision does not provide for cases relating to copy 5 and so on under Article 5(6) of the Law as governed by the applicable law. The legal provision requires that, with the request for the authorisation of textbooks, the proof that he is a publisher is important in the Republic of Croatia. School institutions with language and letter teaching of national minorities under the law may use textbooks from the country of origin with the approval of the ministry, but since the publishers of these textbooks are outside the Republic of Croatia, with the request for approval of such textbooks, no evidence can be provided that the publisher is registered in the Republic of Croatia and this is a kind of absurd. It has also been warned of the term of students with special needs used in this law. It's said to be unclear who it refers to. In some other documents, the Pedagogical Standard includes children with developmental difficulties, but also extremely talented children. If you think about children with developmental difficulties, then that term should also be used to avoid confusion. The opinion is given that Article 9(6), sub-paragraph 6 of the Rules Committee, should include a professional associate, psychologist, pedagogical or defectologist with experience in working with those children for children. Finally, in Article 15 of the final draft law excluding the application of Article 6(4) and Article 15 of the Law to certain categories of textbooks, including textbooks for children with developmental difficulties, it is proposed to specify that this exception applies only in particularly justified cases to which the Minister decides. Because the automatic application of this provision could make it even more difficult to supply students with developmental difficulties. It is also proposed to maintain the provision of Article 6 of the 15th Act which would allow timely information from parents and students on textbooks to be used in the next school year. In addition to the responsibilities of natural persons who influence teachers, or teachers in selecting textbooks, it is also pointed out that the responsibility of school staff with textbooks is to obtain the opposite benefit. In the vote after the debate, the Committee did not support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Teachers for Elementary and High Schools, and by, the Committee was divided, 3 votes to, 2 against and three abstentions. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23405	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23406	Mr. Vice President, I'm a little sorry I can't say hello to the minister here. He somehow always avoids this Parliament and debates about the law, but here we must hope that soon we will see him here and see, respected colleagues and colleagues. An important law on textbooks for elementary and high school was passed in the fall of 2006. At that time, we who discussed it witnessed the promise of Minister Primorac that this law would facilitate school bags, make textbooks cheaper and have fewer textbooks. At that time, we of the SDP warned that the law was bad and that these objectives would not be achieved. Now, two years later the school bags are harder than ever, the textbook has more than ever, and the costs of textbooks and prices have gone to heaven. Meanwhile, before the 2007 parliamentary elections, the issue of textbooks came back to the public's attention. In national population policy, the Croatian Parliament adopted a measure of sharing free textbooks with its children as one of the measures to increase the birth rate. Acknowledging the populist character of the measure, he took on under his laps and rather self-promotion towards Minister Primorac. Soon thereafter, a programme of measures was adopted to introduce compulsory secondary education in which the measure was repeated and somehow confirmed the policy of sharing free textbooks with its children. Of course, he should not be particularly wise to predict the future of insufficiently designed populist pre-election measures. Like any such measure, the project of free textbooks for all children these days is experiencing their last days, and I think hours. Of course, to make everything more interesting for us from politics, but also for education and children and parents completely tragically, it was all set by the argument of Prime Minister Sanader and the restoring Minister of the Primorac. Searching for what could be saved in the recession of the affected country by the overwhelmingly aided inability to predict in time, and then defining the measures to stop the collapse which, judging by yesterday's debate, seems to have been inconceivable, the prime minister came up with free textbooks and concluded that we are still not rich enough country in which we would all, and those who really need it, as well as those who do not necessarily share free textbooks. By the way, these textbooks aren't free, they cost citizens about 400 million kunas. Minister Primorac strongly opposed the prime minister's announcement, scrambling on days of deficits from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports not to give up the project of free textbooks and free textbooks for all children to move on. Although the minister is a minister, the prime minister is still prime minister and today we know the epilogue of the dispute, and this is also witnessed by this bill. The state, or government, is definitely giving up the free textbooks project to all students. The measure, like others, is hidden in the draft of this law. Just to remind the credibility for, in 2007, when we discussed it, we from the SDP claimed that no matter how much we loved it, wanted or should strive, we are still not rich enough country to provide free textbooks to all students. Although I repeat, we have nothing against this measure, although we would love it if all children could receive free textbooks, we have estimated that the accumulated problems in school, from working on shift 3rd, poorly equipped classrooms, to the need for permanent education of teachers and teachers should still be addressed according to some priorities. But before I go to law school, let me point out a few facts that are important to all of us who want to discuss this issue. Contrary to popular assumptions, teachers and school teachers do not teach the content of textbooks. It is the obligation of teachers and teachers to teach children the content defined in the curricula or tomorrow in the curricula. The textbook is just one of the teaching tools that children and teachers need to be helped, and let too often both moms and dads and grandparents master teaching material. The textbook is a book that differs from some other kind of book, except for the purpose of its content being predetermined by the teaching program, and its appearance and design is the consequence, not only of editorial and authorial creativity, but also of a textbook standard. And in the end, no regulation prescribes that a teacher or teacher in the teaching must use textbooks. In fact, there are developed practices and methodical concepts in the world that do not serve the textbook at all in the learning process in schools. So our laws, and according to the autonomy of teachers and teachers, do not prescribe the obligation to use textbooks. It is only defined that if he chooses to use a textbook, teacher or teacher he must choose the one who has the approval of the ministry. And about this textbook policy itself, to say the same thing, we have to argue here that the years of tampering with inadequately designed state policies towards textbooks, meeting the populist pre-election criteria, and not the professional criteria, have actually brought us into a panic situation today. We are solving problems that would not be at all, nor should they happen as problems, and what this law testifies to is that the state policy of textbooks comes down exclusively to commercial and market regulation. Unfortunately, what the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on textbooks offers is nothing more than a path that is irrevocably dwindling from the knowledge society to the steam society. In addition to the policies already mentioned, giving up the distribution of free textbooks to their children in a law formulated in such a way that all children will receive textbooks, but that some parents will participate in the price, and all the conditions of participation will be prescribed by the Minister by means of a rule by introducing a personal identification number even though these things should be regulated by this law. The law also adopts some newspapers in procedures for the approval of elections and the purchase of textbooks. Let me give you one of the depressions that we find in the SDP quite problematic. The law does not address the issue of ownership of textbooks. When the state bought textbooks to its children and all textbooks, it was logical that the state was also the owners of all these books. Now in a situation where parents will participate to a certain extent in the price of textbooks, it would be logical to predict that they can also become owners of some books at least to the extent that they have participated at their price. If there is no such thing as payment of property, and so far there is no property, we will witness in fact the introduction of a new form of self-increasing or para-taxation which I think neither for this Parliament nor for the stage of democracy development today in Croatian society can and is not acceptable. The Ministry of Education suggested with an interesting rationalisation explanation, that schools should set limits for the purchase of textbooks. It will be limited on the basis of what is proposed, based on the average price per student. Of course, it remains completely unclear how such restrictions will include the freedom of teachers and teachers to freely and independently choose a textbook. If that choice is free and independent, then it cannot have financial limits. A teacher and teacher should simply not deal with price considerations. His concern is the quality of the textbook. The price care must be the care of the ministry, and they must not, despite saying so to my own incompetence which is de facto recognised by such solutions, shift to the back of teachers and teachers. As far as we are concerned in the SDP, it is even more scandalous that the government's proposal not to spend the money the school spends on textbooks within the limits of obtaining textbooks, the school can spend on obtaining other curricula and assistance. On the side now that this would be an accidental spending of budget money, as well as the fact that our schools are really poorly equipped, this provision is actually legalising the corruption and pressures that every school chamber is buzzing and whispering about during the process of selecting textbooks. I return to the sacred right of teachers and teachers to autonomously select textbooks. Such a provision lays down the basic criteria for the provision of textbooks there is a price, and the decision of teachers and teachers seems dependent on the material needs of a school that needs to be addressed by some other measures, it seems to me that yesterday's budget and debate is actually a good opportunity for that. The fourth is a major newspaper of these ministry proposals, unfortunately already in the well-known manner of the Ministry of Education, my concern is to move on to another, transferring the process of public procurement of textbooks from the Education and Education Agency, so countries to schools. According to the ministry's proposal, each school will carry out public procurement procedures for itself. This in practice means at least 1360 ads in "The People's News" which is more than 2 million kunas and about 18, 17, 19 thousand contract contracts, so every school with every publisher. These costs and jobs have not been considered and the law does not offer answers to the question of who will pay 1360 instead of one ad, or who will do the job of concluding 17 or 18 thousand contracts instead of 50 or 70. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on textbooks also brings the paper in the form of expert committees of the ministry, new deadlines as well as some minor changes concerning technical conditions that publishers must meet when applying for the authorisation of textbooks. These details, which are actually just trying to patch up what's pretty hard to patch up, will be discussed by our representatives individually in their debates as in one of these provisions we, like the MPs, have submitted amendments, so I wouldn't, in any way, be longer about it now. I would like to point out here that this debate in Parliament was preceded by a rather dynamic debate last week first on the round table of SDP's advice on education, science and culture and then on Wednesday at the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture where all these neural flows were seen and carried, as we heard the amendments of the parent committee in which we from the SDP participated, and these amendments will actually change, if the promoter accepts it and I seem to agree with it, and very controversial procedures and details. The representatives of the ministry obviously have nothing left but to listen to the voice of reason in some way. However, I would like to warn you that this does not mean that the law will be good. The solutions that will remain after the amendments are adopted simply allow me to tell you, they will no longer be as catastrophic as they were before, but they will remain bad. And that is why we in the SDP will not support the adoption of this law as we did not support even when the basic law was passed, and since these are still amendments and additions to the vote we will be abstentions. At the end of the day. In light of this bill, it is said that the law, which we are now discussing here, requires the provision of 399 million kuna in the 2009 state budget. Yesterday we discussed this proposal of the state budget and in the draft budget of this government, this majority, this ministry says that this project of free textbooks will provide 290 million kuna, 291 seems more accurate to me. From the same government, therefore, at the same week for the same project in two different documents once says it will cost 399 million kuna, but is at the same time provided in the 291 million kuna budget. I really don't know who made this mistake, but the mere school math says that 290 million kuna is significantly less than 399 million kuna and I have to admit to what alchemy it can be equalized with. If it's an answer we'll settle it in the rebalancing I mean it's not a good answer, because right now we're just making a budget. I mean, however we turn something wrong, but the fact that something is wrong is also quite common for the ministry, unfortunately for the government as well. In the end, I only want to say one sentence. For five years in this ministry, it's tragic that the whole story of the textbook is reduced exclusively to commercial. Purchases, money, commissions, restrictions, rationalization, etc. There is no dictionary about the quality of the textbooks in the law. All of what we talked about experimental check and evaluation textbooks, etc. During these years, it will remain buried somewhere forever in the Assembly archives. Discussions on textbooks of new quality have been suppressed between interests with several private pockets. Here I would like to say that quality textbooks are obtained by quality curricula, transparent review, as well as the education of teachers and teachers, and not by any administrative restrictions. It is precisely this practice of administrative restrictions that has led us to today's situation, and I personally find it almost incredible that all of the ministry's proposals continue to remain on this very track. Because of all this, as well as the fact that the ministry is constantly and spiritually working on further normisation of the already hypernormized process, without norming the only thing that really needed to be regulated, which is the objectives, outcomes and competences of the education system. We in the SDP have no illusions that this law will bring about any major changes, however, it will create some new problems and in two years we will discuss this again under some other circumstances, not to mention that no one from the ministry almost remembers children who daily on their backs weigh a quarter of their weight. If the government by some order made a decision that every single one of us grown men at work and at home had to carry 20 kilos each day, I think there would be a general rebellion. Nothing like this to anyone. And we are slowly and surely from the land of knowledge becoming a land of steam, and in this context let me tell you also with our backs bent to the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23407	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr. Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23408	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, Madam Representatives, MPs. Indeed, it is a complex law which, in any case, deals with the government's strategic goals, which is that there is a compulsory school in Croatia until the 18th year and that seeks to provide free textbooks for the compulsory school. Ms. Advocacy has criticised it a little, but there are also instruments in place to achieve this, although Article 4 of this Act prescribes these possibilities through certain restrictions and possible participation that will be determined, but that is the thing to be determined by a sublaw. I want to say something else here. I would like to commend the work of the Committee on Science, Education and Culture, which is very intensely involved in the adoption of this law. Why? Because there was a need to redecorate some of the suggestions that came. And this profession has indeed been included, and this law cannot be understood without the seven amendments that the chairman of the board has indicated, but he has not read them. Why? Because they have already, what has been discussed on the board, legitimately solved and proposed to this High House, which I hope will be adopted. I am here to say that this is a good practice because it is a complex task, first of all to preserve quality in textbooks as very important means for schools. It should also be said that the law that was in force had one great weakness, which is that the ministry couldn't determine things like the textbook and that they were additional funds and that was then an open field that was taken without end and it had to be regulated by this law and it was arranged. That's what the profession agreed because the board didn't bring any amendments to that point, and that seems good to me. This is particularly covered by Article 9 which indicates that the expert committees of the textbooks will, of course, assess the consistency and need of the textbooks to be able to act on this. I would also like to say about the limit, they are set out in Article 4 which the minister will offer by means of his sublegal act, according to the number of textbooks and restrictions on the purchase of textbooks and other teaching tools according to the textbook which is determined depending on the type of school, education programme and class, starting with the average cost of drawing up textbooks. I would like to say that an innovation is being introduced, a practice that some neighbouring countries have, and this is an emphasis that the problem is very deep and that, in general, in Croatian society, we should use some experience to the end and also our own to have competitiveness and quality in this area. Of course, those solutions are hard to talk about now. The law provides an opportunity to get rid of it, and yet it's up to the Ministry to do it and show it. What I agree with, and Mrs Lugaric pointed out in several places and what the amendment committees have solved, and this is the next opportunity. So, schools will not order, conduct a public tender for the purchase of textbooks, but it still returns at the agency level as it has been, because there are all those arguments that would increase both the job and the inability to perform what would be if schools had ordered. And it is a good thing that such an amendment has been submitted, so I support this amendment on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club and that I can say from this pay phone that this House will accept that the public procurement and competition will be carried out by the Education and Education Agency. Also in use remains every textbook theoretically achieved at the level of Croatia chosen by Croatian teachers more than 10%. It's theoretically nine textbooks, but it's not practically implemented. So it's an instrument of competitiveness that's being secured and I think it's also arranged by the amendment. And I want to point out this because it completes the picture of this debate and the quality of this legal solution because it has been estimated to be the greatest benefit in this way. Also, out of the potential funds that will be able to stay from good management, of course, by respecting the teacher who chooses the textbook, we think it is one instrument that must never be given up because the teacher is in charge of implementing the curriculative policy and curricula and the school programme, so he has to do with the means he thinks he will do best. And on the market we have the competitiveness of these funds and it achieves the best results. It's preserved, and I believe it'll stay that way and later. I also want to point out some other dimensions of this Law that I am thinking and I want to make it clear that amendments that have been proposed significantly improve the proposal and allow the training policy to ensure competitiveness in this area. I also want to say what the amendment here is all about, which is speeding up one consciousness, and it just seems to me that the SDP's representatives specifically suggested this, which is the introduction of a cumulative policy in the terminology of this textbook. I think it is the same on the trail of those strategic decisions that Croatia will receive curricula obligations at school in the next period which I also think very well, and without textbooks it is impossible. The textbook is part of this policy and it is good that it is embedded in Amendment 1 of the Committee and then through all items as it seems. And in the end, I do not want to owe any debt to this law, which in any case ensures the continuation of those essential specifics of the Croatian compulsory school and free textbooks for the Croatian compulsory school. With the only important newspaper I want to point out once again is the issue of limitations and the issue of possible participation that these restrictions will set, but this will have to be further determined by a sublegal act on the basis of some of the experiences that neighbouring countries have. And what may still be left in this debate, what this legislative proposal does, in any case, improves, say, is the efficiency of the insurance procedure, or these textbooks, or publishers now do not have to give 6 sets when they apply for the approval of textbooks, but the 4th, therefore, it is a slightly more efficient improvement. Other committees dealing with the evaluation of textbooks have so far sat in these committees 5 people chosen by one standard to ensure the quality of work in these committees have now been reduced to 3 so that efficiency is increased and this seems useful. These are certain improvements that this legislative proposal also brings. Therefore, once again, this legislative proposal has a concrete and complete picture if seven amendments to the Committee on Science, Culture and Education join it and without them it is impossible to fully understand it. And once again, I commend it well that the profession has discussed these improvements in this committee as well. And I want to finally say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club that we will vote in favour of this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23409	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23410	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Since 2000, each government has changed the Law on textbooks in each term. Although it was not ideal and was the least problematic law of the coalition government in 2000-2003. The takeover of HDZ authorities took steps to change the law, and most of the changes actually went towards limiting competition and protecting the biggest publishers. All that declaring three main goals. Introducing order on the market i.e. a reduction in the number of textbooks, i.e. publishers. Second, lower prices and higher quality textbooks and third, reduce the weight of school bags. Four years later, it is clear that none of these declared objectives have been achieved. The opposite effects have been achieved. Of course, it is clear to everyone well-intentioned that by limiting competition you cannot achieve higher quality and lower prices than higher prices and stagnating quality. Only sound competition and market action can guarantee an optimal quality price ratio. The law introduced the rule that they could only be three parallel textbook titles per class, which is, of course, the three most representative on the market, with that representation being less than 10%. In practice, the lowest ranked of three first textbooks has more than 20% and it was practically impossible to break into the market with a new title. Enter the first three within two years, unless you have a very significant budget for marketing and dozens of sales representatives processing the market, attend schools. In this way, the market is cemented and the biggest publishers are protected from the competition of smaller, innovative and more flexible publishers. Another even more direct method of protecting large publishers and limiting competition was the regulation of licensing school textbooks in school standard. There it went so far that the prescribed minimum is constantly employed by employees in the development of textbooks. At least 7, although it is a dam that employs a large number of creators, which is one of the basic assumptions for the inventiveness and speed of the response of smaller publishers. Furthermore, it is prescribed that a licensed publisher must own warehouses or have them in the lease, distribution contracts, etc. In a word, anything that can be done to eliminate everyone but the greatest. Since they were so large and protected, the biggest players successfully resisted the requirements for reducing textbook sets, with the aim of reducing the cost and weight of school bags, so the number of components did not decrease, but increased. Workbook, workbook, task collection, curricula, etc. So the result is next. First equally heavy or even harder school bags. Second, the same and even more titles, as smaller publishers were given at the end of the second year and were always teaching again at the approval of a new title that they would then buy for another two years on the market. Third, never higher prices of textbooks that grew significantly faster than inflation. In order for the situation to be even more devastating, the ministry has developed a huge and very expensive bureaucratic apparatus in an attempt to re-regulated the market, and has had to pay all the force of reviewers of members of the judgment committees, develop special software and storage facilities, etc. All these huge funds are as we see spent, without at least achieving any of the declared objectives. The only figure to be handled in public is the total budget spent in the purchase of textbooks, but it would be very interesting to know how much the whole process actually costs, except for the price paid to publishers. In our opinion, it would be much more effective to spend these resources on the continuous improvement and evaluation of teachers. Implementation of a transparent system of monitoring progress to ensure that we have a teacher responsible for the implementation of the curriculum and programmes. Such a teacher certainly will not choose a textbook that makes it difficult for him to implement the program, so all state regulation would become excessive. The task, however, is not easy, so the ministry is significantly opportunised every so much to announce dealing with publishers and introducing order on the textbook market, the populist effect is much faster and cheaper. What are the most important problems of the new bill? The whole proposal for a new law is very problematic, contradictory, locally completely incomprehensible and practically impregnable. Each and every surface reading will reveal a number of problems, so we will look back on only two aspects here. The first aspect that directly promotes corruption and further uncontrolled spending of budget funds. Article 4 states that a teacher chooses a textbook within the limits of a student depending on the type of school, education programme and class, starting with the average cost of making textbooks. It is further prescribed that unused funds can be used by the school to equip i.e. raising the school's pedagogical standard and keeping and using textbooks and other teaching means have to be prescribed by general acts. In such circumstances, the teacher shall be exposed to the Director’s pressure to make his choice exclusively according to the price criteria rather than to the criteria of expertise and quality. Moreover, since at the time of the adoption of the law, we do not know anything about the general acts set out in this Article, the rules on the preservation and use may mean that the Director may put pressure on some textbooks or components, manuals, etc., without buying computers, buildings or the environment, etc. This is very dangerous because it allows for the legal transfer of funds from the Fund for the purchase of textbooks that exists for the sake of declared social sensitivity, the exercise of the right to free education and equal availability of education to all social categories in the funds for the material costs of schools, i.e. Some exclusively operate with the Ministry and the Government sees the information of the health system to construction companies and others. We therefore believe that such a regulation would extend space for legal corruption and uncontrollable spending of budgetary resources. If the objective of saving is declared, why wouldn't the unsecured funds be returned to the budget? It can't be about saving if the funds are poured over to other suppliers. If the ministry considers it necessary to raise pedagogical standards of schools by a number of computers, interactive panels and so on to make it better, more economical and transparent to call a public tender and get a truly best offer. the best price, quantity and quality ratio which is relatively simple when the ministry appears as a large customer in central public procurement. In the proposed school model, they could always buy in a reduced volume and multiple times a year. Several computers, individual contracts with various suppliers and the like, and thus always be below the limit above which they would be required to call a public tender. In particular, it should not be mentioned that the prices that schools would receive in these individual procurements would be very unfavourable. Since there would be no competition among the equal candidates for this purchase, an unrandom area for the corruption of commissions and the like opens up. Schools would now be constantly visited by commercial representatives of computer companies and other potential suppliers, which would certainly not contribute to the integrity of teaching processes in schools. In addition, the biggest publishers would certainly find the means to extend their offer to both IT and other necessary equipment, since they have large sales teams at their disposal anyway. Tens and dozens of MPs who visit schools and principals all the time anyway. Now, along with textbooks, we could offer other equipment as well as appropriate commissions in accordance with the stalking practice. It is perfectly legitimate that the ministry as a customer in public procurement does everything to reduce the purchase price of textbooks but we believe that this should be done by the ministry at the highest level in order not to expose the teacher to a situation in which, depending on the current material needs of the school, it will be possible to put pressure on it to make such or such a choice. The teacher should be put before a choice in which each option will be equally legitimate and indisposed to any pressure. He must choose exclusively according to quality and his professional judgment. This is only possible if the ministry sets prices in agreement with the publishers and then allows the teacher to choose freely from the catalogues of approved textbooks. The second aspect of the law unnecessarily restricts competition and deprives teachers of the quality already achieved in a textbook offer that costs nothing to the state budget. The amended Article 15 states that only one textbook with the highest percentage representation for each teaching course is included in the catalogue in one class of the same education programme. This means that smaller specialized publishers who have developed several different concepts for certain items are once again disabled depending on the representation of different methods, teaching styles and the like. Since different parallel textbooks have their own different users, it is obvious that there is a need for them, and this regulation unnecessarily deny the choice of teachers and thus does not achieve any of the stated objectives. The teacher chooses only one textbook anyway and this has no impact on neither the total cost nor the weight of the school bag. Finally, what makes sense is to throw out a highly represented textbook in order to insert the following from a ranking list that teachers did not give their trust to. It's about the wealth of the offer that the state has in no way contributed to, nor is it what costs. There is no reason to deprive ourselves of options that meet different needs of different types of students aural, visual, kinesthetic, etc. They all require a different approach, so the possibility of a choice where it exists should certainly be welcomed. Here, and finally the findings. The Emperor remained naked, a project of free textbooks for everything will remain recorded as beautiful but for today the obviously unrealistic wish of the Minister of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23411	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23412	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. So it is incorrect that any article and Article 4 to promote corruption is already an existing law that is in force today and has done everything possible to reduce any potential for corruption. And it's incorrect that the dream of free textbooks will remain a dream. It is concrete and it will certainly be realized, anyway, and it is in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23413	National Minority Representatives Club Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23414	Thank you very much. Yes, this debate on behalf of the Club of National Minorities is, in fact, a continuation of the debate from our unfortunate session of the Assembly Committee where the proposal was rejected in order to fix the picture and to correct the final outcome. I normally have to commend Mr Janjic, because if there is someone who is always open to national minority proposals, that is Mr Janjic, we have interpreted it in the past and I believe that in the future, in the immediate future, that practice will continue. I recall, the Committee pointed out that when it comes to teaching textbooks in the language and letter of national minorities imported from the country of origin, then it is not a key problem to approve them for which the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are without reason introduced by a highly restrictive regime, but a whole series of other problems which are not addressed by this draft law. Therefore, although the right to use textbooks from the country of origin is established by the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities, issues such as importing entities, import procedures, choice of textbooks, financing of imports, applicant for the approval of textbooks, etc. remain open. As one of the solutions to this problem in the debate is proposed to be included in the relevant article, Article 8 of the final proposal of the law lays down a provision which would determine that the ministry will determine the procurement and approval of textbooks imported on home land. That's one of the suggestions. However, it is also highlighted as one of the problems that, in fact, in the final outcome of this proposal, the law would lead to the fact that the respective textbooks imported from abroad must be registered in the Republic of Croatia. Which is absurd, because if the textbooks are from abroad then the publisher must be registered in those countries of which they are imported. Well, then there's one, actually one problem that seems to be weakly solved without any possible amendments. In fact, we believe that these amendments would improve at least by improving our position as national minorities would improve the law to a measure that would be acceptable for us to vote in favour of this law in the end. But that's not enough, because it's not enough just for the registration problem that I think is in the interests and the ministry to solve it, but it's also the problem of the commission, and the composition of the commission, and especially for the national minorities of language knowledge, and the national minorities of the entire commission, and not for the very part of the commission, which is supposed to be prescribed by the regulation, but the problems remain in the fact that the commission has five members, and the rule states that only three must know the language of the national minority. It is not difficult when it comes to the Serbian language that the Croats understand, and the other minorities understand. It's the problem, for example. when in Czech, when in Hungarian, when in Italian. And absurdly, it would be one commission where all the members of the commission don't know the languages, the books they discussed. So that's why I think this is about... which will be resolved, which will be repaired by the ministry, that it is also in the interests of the ministry and may the ministry not be afraid that there are too many amendments, no one has pointed out so far that there are too many amendments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can be calm about that. But what I would like to say, when discussing textbooks is that actually when it comes to national minorities, the term textbooks in the language of national minorities are more than one myth than one reality. There were textbooks in the past, but that was, when I talk about the past, I'm talking about the '90s, of course, but they were translated textbooks and we all had the same fate. As in Croatian schools, there was only one textbook for each class, to learn from this textbook and not to make a mistake by chance or in any other way, so did the Italians. They had the same textbook translated, and in some ways justice was served, because as we all know we were the same then, whether we were the same or not, it was another pair of sleeves, but the ideology wanted us all to be the same, so we all had the same textbooks, good or wrong. Now, since the '90s, however, in practice is one different, different system and it is a system that can be chosen amongst more, of course not immediately since the '90s, a little later, that can choose more textbooks, it creates one problem for national minorities. Because national minorities have schools that are small, barely possibly publishers could print for one textbook, let alone for more textbooks. But the problem is that they don't actually print for one textbook. So what happens then is that it is actually one real need to import books from the countries of origin, books that the ministry has always approved, because they must be in accordance at least to some extent with the programme, with a plan and programme as said by educators, a plan and a programme prescribed by the ministry. We have done this so far, of course, in some countries, in the Czech Republic, in Hungary and Italy is so much the production of books that, in the end, it is always said that with several books with many photocopies, many translations by teachers and I would remind you that, in some old times, it was because of these translations which were done by professors in schools in the language of national minorities, precisely because of these translations, they had 10% higher wages than other teachers, because they had to work more than professors in majority schools, not because they were special, because they had to translate many documents, many instruments and many textbooks. Well, you know, one day when this country is going to live a little better, remember a little bit that they have to work more than they do in majority schools, in Croatian. For a simple reason, because not everything, just everything, is printed, it's not just books, it's about various tests, mass aids, the mass of instruments used in schools, it's got to be translated. And that's why they had 10% salary, so then you'll always have my vote that those teachers, teachers, have bigger salaries. Because it takes a bigger salary to get a bigger job. We finally have, I signed them first and now they will be submitted as the National Minority Club. We have three amendments. One amendment concerns the registration of publishers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft of the law will be shorted, one, by two new items, which read as follows: "For textbooks which for the purposes of approval in the language and letter of national minorities imports from the country of origin, a request for approval is generally submitted by a minority publisher or a roof association of the national minority concerned." In order that the publisher would not have to be registered in Croatia, I think who will register in Croatia for a load of several hundred copies. And... This Article, in its application for approval, referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article, is a bureaucratic language, but it is mainly about the fact that 4 printed copies of the textbooks and the statement by the responsible person of the publishers or the roof association of the national minority that imported textbooks will be identical to the textbook approved by the Ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same, of course, with certain tolerances... I mean, the same thing can be just the same book, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The 2nd amendment concerns the commission, and it also has one bureaucratic language, but it comes down to it, I'm not going to read it now so that it doesn't burden those who look at us in particular. Explanation of this amendment... an explanation which is more comprehensible, amendments to subparagraphs 3 and 4 define in a clearer way the number of members and compositions of the commission and specify that members of the commission must know the language and letter of the national minority by certifying that they evaluate textbooks in the language and letter of the national minority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The whole committee with the Methodist and the ones inside. Paragraph 5 of the amendment defines that one of the members of the commission must be a teacher or teacher of language and literature who has worked in the language and letter of the national minority since the commission referred to in subparagraph 5 works on textbooks already approved for teaching in Croatian and only translate into the language and letter of the national minority, so it is important to assess the language correctness of translation. And finally Amendment 3. Article 15 is amended where the word “point 5, subparagraph 5” is placed behind the word “point 4. Again administrative not to say bureaucratic language in order to say: "The proposed amendment in Article 13(1) of the Law is maintained in the law of the provision needed in order for national minorities to continue to be able to obtain and use textbooks from countries of origin with the approval of the Ministry as guaranteed by the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities." If, and I believe that they will, if and when the Ministry agrees with these amendments, the Club of National Minorities will vote for this proposal, for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23415	Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23416	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, thank you very much to all of you who, on behalf of the board and on behalf of the representatives clubs, made your proposals and explained certain amendments, and that is precisely why I would like to stress here that the wrong information would not go public that a good part of what you mentioned was accepted and that it is not in the form that some in the name of their clubs were being presented. But here I'm going to try to say one more thing and remind you of something. So in 2001, the Law on textbooks was first passed after 23 years that the Republic of Croatia did not have it. So until then, it was dealt with by direction and so on. In the then coalition government a proposal has been drawn up according to which we wanted to standard it so equally respected representative Vince and your party, your club advocate agreed that we cannot allow a situation like that until then that literally in the shed someone may have publishing activity so office in his car and warehouse any. So then we made it very clear that it was inadmissible and then, and then your colleagues took part in it and then it was placed about the way it is now. So it's not about any favor, it's really about setting up this very important activity. That's what I need to remind you of. Of course when we talk about this, I'm not going to talk about some kind of political object that we've had a chance to hear, but I want to say about that part about the profession I have to say here you won't mind. For 20 years I worked in school, in high school, in technical, professional school, craftsmanship, and I know well that the textbooks were not available until the procurement of state budget funds. There are two reasons why: either the children did not buy or there was no textbook for professional subjects at all. Believe me, in these two years when we're getting funding from the state budget, it doesn't happen that a student of a crafts school doesn't have, say, a reader in front of him, which is very important to a teacher for a normal work. If the student has no text in front of him, if 20 of them have no text in front of them, it is very difficult to work. We have actually helped teachers in this way to make the teaching process much better, much better. The second thing I said was that there were no textbooks for professional subjects. It's a small load. The publishers were not particularly worth going to, so they failed to hire authors to create such textbooks. Of course that class couldn't have been good. Now we have a different picture. Now those textbooks are working. We have a lot of authors, and that actually raises quality, so if you want to talk about standards, we'll have a discussion about vocational education after this debate. In that sense, I'll only mention one thing. So there are sectoral councils that are foreseen in this professional section, which is the largest, over 70% of the system in secondary school, so they will develop standards of interest, qualifications standards and, of course, ultimately "curriculum". That's what's very important, and when we speak of respected MP Lugaric about the outcomes, so we are on the trail to do it, to do it, and right now with this normisation we begin... So end another when we're talking about the funds that are unused. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We said we accept, we accept the amendment of the parent committee. So now we have nothing to tell about it, but the computers, the IT classrooms, the information equipment are mentioned. I have to remind you here that we don't need any additions to what we do regularly. Believe me, we don't have a single school that doesn't have an IT classroom, at least one, and I can show you here not far from this assembly several schools that have about 200 computers. So, we don't need to spill over a part of these funds precisely because we got a lot of not only the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports from the resources of the state budget, but also the schools and their resources themselves, but also the founders of the delivery of funds in the context of material costs, so if you want certain donations from individual companies that cooperate particularly with vocational schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23417	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23418	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. We are discussing that law as proposed by the Government, not the law as amended by the amendments, and amendments will only be adopted in the end. So by voting, and therefore we are discussing that text that we have before us as proposed by the Government, and that text is colleagues and fellow texts that turn bad legislation into catastrophic. He turns it into a disaster and that's a few reasons. First, the newspaper that was relatively good, which we thought was inconclusive and which accidentally coincided with the pre-election year, which is that all the students get textbooks that the agency or the state gives up, the legislators gave up without actually being able to explain what the reason was. The emergency procedure is in fact an indication that there is a complete unplanned situation in this ministry because the deadlines set for certain tasks when the textbooks are being published are moving, and now this has suddenly been revealed to this extent that the legal provisions had to be changed in an emergency procedure, so in an urgent time when something else is most likely to change the law, which is the participation of parents in the price of textbooks and that you have shown this would be fully acceptable to us given the new situation in finance and state. Second, third. This law is as proposed basically against the law. He is against the law against the basic law that regulates the issue of education. We passed a law on basic and secondary education this summer. And in it we have made a claim, or provision, that the basis for planning and carrying out the course is curricula. This legislation does not mention the curricula at all, but rather the terms of the curricula and the programs that experts know about the curricula are highly incompatible. During the debate on the law, we received almost a protest. Therefore, the negative opinions of almost all professional associations involved in the design of textbooks, associations of textbook authors, associations of publishers, accounting associations etc., associations of school directors. So they were all against the solutions proposed by this law. And Mr. Vice President of your domain, the law is problematic. The original law yes. The original law has 19 articles. This is called the Law on Amendments and Law Supplements, and this law has 26 articles. So the amendments and additions are bigger than the basic law. Why didn't it go with the new law? The law on page 3 provides, in its explanation, the text reads like this. The introduction of restrictions on the purchase of textbooks and other teaching resources per student will require the provision of 399 million for 2009 and the same amount for 2010. The draft budget for this year is 291 million, and this is what the Committee on Finance said about it and the question is whether without a positive opinion of the Committee on Finance on what I hope we can pass this law at all. Then, with a single amount of funding, one fund, the Fund for textbooks tried to address two school needs in law. On the one hand, the purchase of textbooks, on the other hand the purchase of didactic equipment for all those amounts that, after the purchase of textbooks, by using the limit of school eventually remain. And ultimately, this law also asks us a very sensitive question on the agenda. How this ministry works and what the government is doing in the final context. The law has passed. I'm hoping for some kind of procedure at the Ministry of Experts. Then some kind of ministry college. Then the ministry proposed it to the government. Then the law passed the government's coordination, and I hope the Vice-President's Office as well as the government's legal service, so that only on the board would certain catastrophic consequences of this law be established and I hope that those in the form of amendments will be adopted and thus the law will be corrected. However, the law will be corrected so that the disastrous becomes bad, which is why we cannot be satisfied, and that is the reason why we will not accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23419	Thank you. Three replicas. First Mr. Representative Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23420	Mr. Vice President, I fully understand some of your remarks, but I'm only sorry that I haven't read those amendments yet. Because I see no reason you have the right clearly to... The Commission notes that [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But let's discuss the things we agreed on. We have agreed perfectly on the committee, and you say the representatives of the opposition and we representatives of the majority and representatives of the ministry to accept all the improvements we have accepted. Therefore, the question of the curicula was accepted,... The question has been accepted that not only can one textbook from one publisher. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question of procurement has been accepted, so it's not all 105, 1300, and how much to be central. It is accepted that the leftover that is not spent on textbooks cannot be used for other purposes. Therefore, all the relevant remarks made here in this debate have already been accepted in the form of amendments and not only amendments but amendments adopted by the proposing representative. So I'm saying, I really don't see any reason for us to waste our time discussing the things we agreed on and on which we all are, we're all for these things. So I say, I think I should have read these amendments once again, but I think that these amendments some of the things that bothered us the most in this law are important, significantly corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23421	Replication response, Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23422	Mr. President of the Committee, I agree with you and I am, in fact, in a way and I am grateful that you yourself have advocated that the Committee accept the amendments proposed by MP Lugaric and I. So I agree that, I know that, but we're not proposing, we're not discussing the revised law now, but we're discussing the text of the law proposed by the Government and the text of the law that came out of the ministry, that's actually what's on the Parliament's agenda. And we will discuss the amendments during the vote, and I am glad that we adopted them, but it is by the very fact that we adopted them by the very fact that the promoter adopted them is actually material proof that this law was not good. And I'm glad that we've been professionally speaking to the board and that the arguments have been corrected by this law, but it seems to me that it's a kind of misunderstanding. So we are discussing what the Government has proposed, and we do not have the text of the law in the amendment form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23423	Thank you. Second replica, Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23424	Your Honor, I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, Mr. Flego mentioned that he dropped out of the school competition and returned this public procurement to the agency without anyone, he said, too much of an explanation. Well, I'm also reading this law that's about actually the populist policy of sharing textbooks with my children, and I can say that here, from this law, it's been visible, in these amendments to the law that this populist action has its own quick end. This has happened with this and not yet experienced and the atmosphere of all primary and secondary school students to get free textbooks, and here we now have other suggestions. So you're no longer going from one center to a public tender, i.e. the question whether the Education and Education Agency does not have any confidence to conduct those competitions when it is allowed to go to school. The question, however, is how these competitions would be held, and in the introduction, counterpart Lugaric said over 1,300 school competitions would be held. But the other thing is how should directors fight these limits, and what will they ask the publishers to do? Whether a quality or cheap textbook. But what comes now at the end and what is present and what the prime minister has indicated is whether he will get all the free textbooks? Apparently, he won't. We're probably coming up with a parent's participation, but the question of what criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23425	Thank you. Next replica, Ms. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23426	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Flego, you say this is a bad law, colleague Selem tried to deny you by saying that accepting the amendment would significantly change and improve this law. And we can agree that the extremely bad law might ultimately be slightly improved, but still remains a fact, which is that this law in many of its segments is unclear, that it is confusing, that it leaves dilemmas, that it leaves doubt, that in some way it is an unfinished product. What's constant, it seems to me in the work of this ministry, and it's seen through both pedagogical standards and through laws that we've brought so far not to think about teachers, not to think about children, not to think about the quality of textbooks, not to think about improving school work. I think it's a big problem, I think, an obsession that, under the development of the education system, we mean primarily investment in buildings and equipment, and the equipment I think textbooks are really an obsession of the last century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23427	10.59, it's time for a ten-minute hearing. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23428	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. In this law, I will discuss only one domain or one provision which, unfortunately, I couldn't find in the law or in the amendments to the law, although when I almost ask it, everyone always nods my head and says that there is one in the law, and it is the textbooks for blind children in the regular system of schooling. The textbooks on Braille's letter. They are not according to this law, nor are they the ones who are called textbooks with a small fee, nor do they belong to that group of textbooks with children for special needs because they are textbooks that are printed for a special curriculum. So, by reading both existing laws and amendments and additions, I did not really encounter a provision that would clearly and unequivocally say that blind students in primary and secondary schools also have the right to free textbooks in Braille's letter. And at board meetings, I asked this question, did those kids get those textbooks for this school year? I was told yes, but no one knew who printed them, who copied them to Braille, so the answers were I don't know, it seems. Now, it seems that we do not have a very precise answer and instead of further problematizing, and I hope that in this House and in this country no one needs to prove to anyone that these children have the right to free textbooks, that no private publisher will print them because it is not worth it and after five times repeating that the price of such textbook when prescribed to Braille is between 2,800 and 4,500 kuna per item. I suggest the following, Mr. Secretary of State. I couldn't write the amendment because it just doesn't have that part of the law. You can either make the following by means of an implementing regulation or by amendment to the Government. Blind students in the regular system of schooling in primary and secondary schools receive an electronic notebook, personal computers with which the speech unit, scanner and printer on Braille's letter through which they can use textbooks that are selected from the regular teaching program, scan, and enter the computer into Braille's printer, print and material on Braille's printer. When they do their homework, the controls work on Braille, on a simple teacher or teacher printer print a letter to see us, and thus we solved the problem and saved significant money. Because such a set of personal computers complete for blind students can be used for years, and for only one school year printing textbooks on Braille's printer costs at least four times that price and if they were ordered about 128 if I didn't cheat students like that in Croatia, that the purchase price would be less than the individual price, and at this point it is about 68 thousand kuna. Add to that the relief kit, therefore, the geometry kit. They do everything by touch and relief. The relief gear for geometry about parents pay believe it or not, 800 kuna, flat, angler, triangle, sixth. And there's still embossed geography kits from somewhere around 1.100,00 kuna. If fear of oppression or destruction or fear of irrational availability, you can even give it to the lapels and after schooling they return, but I believe there is enough money to buy it for them and make it for permanent use. We will also avoid prescribing textbooks on Braille because I have a personal experience when part of the students are prescribed from the regular teaching program, that was done in textbooks 10 and over. So someone was copying old textbooks, and given that there are no blind persons at the Ministry's Board of Teachers who might be able to control what was long ago in regular schools, that was possible. So if you would accept Mr. Secretary of State this proposal, you would solve the question of quality because it would be done in an exclusively newly selected teaching program for selected students. All students would be in an even position, in the same position, no matter where they go to school, three would stop gambling and earning on blind children and four, they would really make a very significant step with those children because then they could also use the Internet because of that speech unit that would turn the text into a speech to them. So they'd open up another window to the world except for the regular teaching standard. It would be extremely important for further discussion of the possible amendment if the secretary of state could show about this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23429	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23430	My colleague Lesar, you are fully alerted to a problem that this law does not answer, so the question of a textbook on Braille for blind and undersighted children. However, in this replica, I would like to say that, in fact, the need and obligation to provide textbooks for blind and undersighted children have been established by this Parliament in the pedagogical standard, which is precisely the basis of this ministry's proposal. According to the criteria of feasibility of applying the pedagogical standard, they come into force immediately, so that's something. If there was a consistent policy of the ministry, it had to be in this particular law. And why isn't there? It is now really an answer to the question that I am interested in, because then I wonder if what we have agreed as good measures in the pedagogical standard and brought here to the Croatian Parliament was actually just a dead letter on paper when it did not already receive the material in the laws in which the material should be obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23431	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23432	Comrade Lugaric, you're absolutely right. The provisions of the pedagogical standard were also a reason for my proposal, although I also warned at that time that those provisions in the pedagogical standard were not clear enough again, and that they would not be solved by the problem, because printing, I would say copying Braille's letter because it is not a textbook of a special programme, simply no publisher in Croatia. Those who do this do it without supervision and control because it is not intended for the Ministry's commission to enlighten themselves to oversee who is and who is prescribed. Technology has gone terribly far. The possibility of using such a equipped computer is cheaper, more quality, more content and I think that, and the sooner we get the answer from the secretary of state on the subject, that even if we now give those blind children a chance to choose between these fakes of prescribed textbooks and this personal computer offer, all 128 will vote for a personal computer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23433	State Secretary, Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23434	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, I thank you very much for making this proposal. First, when it comes to the work of expert commissions and the normisation of this part which is indeed what it is, as it has been in practice so far, we have always predicted the means but we could never sufficiently engage because the publisher simply does not have one, and those who exist might say that we should have a higher quality in terms of synchronising content, if I am clear. But this is what we will solve by the Rules on the work of expert committees, because this law means that all implementing rules, i.e. sublegal acts, will be passed within certain deadlines, so that we can very easily resolve this part, not in this law, but in this Regulation. So it's the only thing he can do for sure. What you have now suggested when it comes to 128 students, I must say that we in the state budget have the means to purchase information equipment, to get IT classrooms, to get how we say smart records in the jargon. I will suggest to my associates that we will invite both you and interested associations to discuss it, the idea is not bad, it is possible to realize, we don't even have to legally standardize, but what you suggest when you talk about a computer unit, when you talk about a scanner, when you talk about a printer, but together with this other equipment that you add to geometry, etc. So about 70 thousand kuna, if in the meantime it might not have been cheap because you're probably operating on prices from a few years ago, we can talk about it. But I would say that when we talk about a system of primary and secondary education why don't you keep saying it in vertical because it wouldn't be good if we decided to give it to someone as you say to the regents, not for elementary and high school, but for school. I think that should be expanded and, on the other hand, I invite you to talk about it, and that next year, if we agree to do so, we'll go into realisation. To the extent that we can, then we'll go further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23435	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23436	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, allow me, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, a few sentences and in an individual debate. I want to actually say four things. First it's finance, second it's setting limits, third participation and fourth on the very process of actually passing laws. About the financials. Our Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in its Article 139, states that if the proposal creates material obligations by law that the Assembly cannot decide on the draft law, if the basis of the report of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget determines that sufficient resources in the state budget are provided to meet these obligations. The opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget on this proposal is a law that required further explanation of the applicant, which states that not only does it require the 399 million kunas you wrote, but that this should be increased by 6% of the annual inflation in the following year. The Finance Committee says it has decided to take the view that 399 million kuna should be provided for law enforcement because there was no state budget at the time. And I'm afraid, Mr. Vice President, that since the state budget isn't so secure that by voting this bill before the Finance Committee does anything here, so either revises its position or submits amendments to the state budget or some arrangements, we will harshly violate the Rules of Procedure. But it's not a problem with breaking the Rules of Procedure, but the problem is that then the law we're going to pass is simply not going to be implemented, and that was actually the idea of law-making. So here, if I can ask all the representatives and MPs who are on the Committee on Finance to pay attention to this, because only at the session of December 3rd, they unanimously brought some sort of position and I think it is good to stick to it consistently, not for these or those reasons, but simply because of what is proposed by the law and proposed. Second, about setting limits. The bill found that the ministry would set limits for each school to obtain textbooks. Speaking on behalf of the club, I said that actually the sacred right of teachers to choose textbooks can't actually be restricted by any limits. And I'd like to say maybe a little bit, and we haven't paid enough attention to that in the debate, to talk about what the criteria are for setting those limits. So if the criterion is the average price of the textbook, then I ask the question what if the teacher chooses the more expensive one, so it does not fit the limit, and in fact he only uses his right and obligation to choose the highest quality textbook or the one he considers the most qualitative. Secondly, it seems to me that the criteria that come down exclusively to the student and the average price are not sufficient. I think that in the whole process of making textbooks and whole and actually the stories about textbooks participate on the one hand and publishers and authors. Of course, our interest must not be here in the interest of the publisher or the author but of the public interest, and the public interest is a quality book. I think it would be a good idea if, if the law had actually prescribed the ministry's obligation to consult with limits, so to include in one consulting process and publishers and associations of authors, but also trade unions because they sort of represent teachers, and they are the ones who ultimately decide, as well as all the other factors that are related to the process of selecting textbooks themselves. This is how it seems to me that by unilaterally setting limits by the ministry, I say, with a relatively understandable argument of rationalization, we're opening up a new peach of problems that I'm guessing, and... This law and I here are the third terms of office in the House saying that we will discuss it again in two or three years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And actually, I think we should stop it all together. Third, the participation of parents. So, I have already said that there must be a strict payment of property and that we cannot introduce any new self-debts, but it seems to me to be a controversial solution in the very draft of the law which says that the minister's regulation will determine the extent to which that participation will be and for which categories according to the personal identification number. All the laws that we have passed in the Croatian Parliament, which determine in some way the rights and obligations of citizens, and this is, in particular, the right, on the other hand, the obligations of citizens, they must be prescribed in the law. It is therefore the law that must lay down criteria for which categories of population and under which conditions they will participate how much. It doesn't have to be in absolute terms, but in terms of some criteria, percentages of certain basics to say it or similar. It simply has to be prescribed in law. We can't make citizens pay for something to put in, like, a solution to determine the minister by his rule. It's like saying we're going to have a profit tax, and what is that tax going to be, they're going to set the finance minister by a rule. So it seems to me that a little too much trouble is actually happening around this law itself. And lastly, the law-making process itself. I can understand the need for politics sometimes not to be reasonable, so to speak, and that some things must be brought quickly and overnight. However, from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports many times we get laws that are semi-products, which are too open, which are too controversial, then we, as the parent board for education and laws, change them very often drastically. That'll be the case with this law. And I don't think the methodology that you have when you pass a bill in the ministry is good. It's just not good. Not to mention the fact that in fact the law which has 19 articles you have 26 articles of amendments and additions, and then all together there are already 20 proposed amendments. So in some normal state, in some normal parliamentary procedure, this is not to go according to an urgent procedure, but it would be a matter of reason to withdraw it in view of the mood in Parliament and propose a new law in fact. In fact, in a way, it seems to me that you, as ministry representatives, are coming here to Parliament in an ungrateful position to actually defend something that you have given up. So, in fact, the short taste of this last part is in some way an appeal to be a little bit, to be a little bit more studioy when preparing the law, and on the other hand, it's not good when laws are based on impressions, based on a political assessment without actually being quite broadly affected and analysed by what the law wants to solve. And in the end, I am personally saddened by the fact that the story of the textbook has been reduced to commercial. We are now exhausting the limit is like this, like this, out of procedures like this or like that, is public procurement due to institutions A or institutions B and we have completely lost sight of the question of the quality of textbooks. We've lost sight of the purpose of the textbook, we've lost children to whom these textbooks are brought. If we're going to bring the future issue from education into commercial and in some way commercialize education, we don't seem to be writing well. The trends that go around the world in this sense, therefore, talk about one commercialisation of education, but for Croatia that has few educated people and many more of those who need it, it seems to me that every single act that would give the impression that we are actually putting the story of education on purely commercial grounds. And that is unfortunately what is happening with this law, and I would not like to see the future of the Ministry of Science get the first laws that are semi-products, and other laws that education which should be a social consensus bringing down to money and money-related procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23437	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23438	Well, here's Mr. Vice President, I decided on this replica just to contribute to the debate because Mrs. Lugaric was talking about the fact of limitations. At one point, she said that the limit on the teacher had been changed. I just think that all of our efforts on the board, including your Madam Representatives, were that the teacher was not just being restricted, but that he chose the best textbook. Already seems to me to be constraints, limited publishers. And that they will have to achieve their own and their own competition according to those regulations that the sublegal act will determine the minister. I would also like to say that, in this article 4, we have just made this amendment to the Committee that the school does not bid on the fact that it will save I do not know what money, so it will invest in some other equipment. Therefore, this fact needs to be made aware, and it is good to open this debate, to indicate that it is precisely ensuring such a competitive space that these restrictions affect the fact that the state invests money on a particular case in the class to that level and that then the publishers are competing in that competitive competition. I think that the teacher should be completely free to choose, what he thinks is best for him in these textbooks, for his subject and to choose it, and I think that the proposer has to take special care of it and to understand well-meaningly what the Committee in Amendment 2 has ensured that this matter is more clearly defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23439	Replica reply, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23440	My colleague Šetić, if it were what you say, then Article 14 of the Law would be amended. In fact, the limits apply to schools. The publishers aren't bound by anything. I agree that it would be possible to limit them, but Article 14 that says the publisher only delivers the price has not changed and does not change. So we don't restrict the publishers in any way. The publishers still have to deliver their product and say what the price is. We limit schools. And what does it mean to limit school? To limit the teacher's choice. What else? So if it was what you were saying, I'd say great. But I repeat, we limit school limits, not publishers. And that's the problem with this law that we've actually reduced everything to commercial and money. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23441	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23442	Well, Mr. President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, this law, these amendments and the additions of the textbooks law, caused great debates, but it was a very important law in the segment of education, so I think that after two years of applying the law that we passed in 2006, the law that solved many problems above all and the question of branched textbooks and introduced licenses to publishers, and added and extended the definitions of certain concepts, within the concept of textbooks, regulated the practice of conflicting interests, between textbook authors introduced the possibility of adding textbooks to correct perceived errors or shortcomings, introduced a way of choosing textbooks in classes for certain subjects and regulated much more good. After two years, the ministry has clearly seen that some changes are needed, which we certainly welcome but I can tell you that as a member of the Education Committee, I have made several objections to this law myself. So I'm going to start with those basics that the board has accepted as a joint proposal for a committee and amendments. First of all, it was about Article 4 where we tried to solve it, I'm going to say decentralisation the purchase of textbooks, so transfer that supply to all primary and secondary schools. My colleagues have already noted in this debate today what it would mean if a thousand 360 schools opened a public procurement tender, that more than 20,000 contracts were concluded with different publishers. Believe in practice when you talk to school principals, it would cause some difficulties in the organisation of school work, and we need to know that all of this is happening precisely in the important period of the school year, teaching year. And it starts from the beginning of the delivery, the opening of a public tender that sometimes, we all know what public tenders are, can be brought down by certain publishers, so it has to be repeated. This means that it would really make it impossible to get textbooks at the right time even at the beginning of the school year. The second remark that I made and which the committee accepted, and therefore with gratitude, we can all say together on the board, we were similarly thinking about changing these amendments, because that famous article 18, which is the most modified and applies primarily to the possibility that a teacher should choose a textbook and, according to the ministry's proposal, to include textbooks in the catalogue of the Ministry with other teaching tools for individual teaching subjects chosen by teachers and teachers not less than 10% and to include one teacher as well as the Secretary of State and others in his lectures in the catalogue of textbooks only one subject can be included in one textbook. What would that mean in practice? Well, that's exactly what my colleagues used to say. It would certainly ensure that, don't get me wrong, but, bad textbooks, textbooks that got maybe a smaller percentage, by a smaller percentage, were selected for which most teachers did not decide to be included in the catalog just because they were not printed by one publisher. I think it is necessary for the quality of the textbook to provide regardless of the publishers, that it is necessary for teachers to choose quality textbooks. And speaking of the quality of the textbooks, I have to say that here were the words that mostly improved commercially and meant the commercial side of this law. The truth is that it was thought but we have a commission to judge school textbooks for elementary schools that were passed under this law, a commission that has its own rules and in which people are primarily scientists, Methodists, people teachers, teachers in the profession. I think that when selecting textbooks that can go into the procedure, they have above all the task of ensuring the quality of the textbooks, and I don't think that the more we focus on this commercial side of the law, the more we lose our thinking here, the thinking of the board, and the ministry of what's going to happen with the quality of the textbooks because there really is a rule, and there are people in this commission that we have to trust, who are experts. What we've been asking for is to change and change what we think is right. If it were appropriate for these articles, in Article 18 that we changed when we limited that one editor could have more textbooks in his offer, when we chose and returned, I would say again the possibility that the agency would call a tender for all primary and secondary schools which in these two years proved well. Maybe more work for the Education and Education Agency, but good because it's cheaper in this situation. I think we should have changed some of the deadlines that were also related to handing over applications for textbooks and deadlines to publishers, to publish the list and everything that goes with this law and these remarks, so I am personally observing even after this debate on the committee, proposing to the Proposer i.e. To the ministry that some of the provisions, some of the dates proposed in the transitional and final provisions of this law, are changed, above all, to go back to those who need to ensure the quality of this whole procurement process, the selection of textbooks because, for example, in the current law, it was intended to submit applications for the approval of textbooks for the next school year, so for that school year, which takes place before us by December 1st, so it is submitted by December 1st. In these changes that are now ahead of us, the proposal was to be the first of September of the current year, and I think we could then find some possibility to do so on October 1st, I'll tell you why. And according to the fact that all those provisions are moving in one month. I'll tell you why. To really leave an opportunity for those people, the authors of textbooks who submit the application for the authorisation of textbooks may leave that one month to the authors themselves. We know that the month is July, August months when they are vacationed, months when it is very difficult to achieve this dynamic of work so that these people are left for another month for them to freely surrender their demands because if we have now held on to two with December 1st, I think we could now finish this whole process even though they submit their demands on October 1st, so I would ask that the Proposer consider these amendments as well. I think I'll support this law. He will certainly experience some more changes because it is good that any law after what I would say underlines and what is seen to be in practice is good or bad to change. I hope, honestly, that all these remarks that we have made and on the Committee on Education that I think it does quality work and that it is the purpose of this committee, that it is precisely pointing to what perhaps the ministry and people who have not seen any problems in the ministry and have suggested that they accept it and that, with these amendments that we have adopted together as a committee, and some colleagues here, this is once again a good basis, a good starting point to see what will happen to textbooks in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23443	Thank you. Two replicas. First Mr. Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23444	Following what my colleague Roxandic said, a question of quality. I don't think any law in the world can define quality, that's absurd. The Law on Theatres I said that on the board cannot define the quality of the theatre performance. The law is there to create conditions for quality, to create conditions for the best quality and best products to be affirmed and go into need. So I say I ask the law to define quality that's pointless. The law is required to define conditions that allow quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23445	Reply to the replica of Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23446	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, that's exactly what I pointed out in my debate. I pointed out that article 7. The Law on textbooks defines the Committee for the Judgment of School textbooks for Elementary and High School. The Ministry of Science has also passed a rulebook, so I'd say it's a regulation by which the ministry, by which this commission works. That commission is really made up of experts, and I trust these people. I think they're all people who can tell if the textbook has a quality or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23447	And Madam Representative Ljubica Lukacic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I just wanted to relate to what my colleague Roxandic said, she mentioned the commission. Which is extremely important because in this commission there will also be an expert, teacher and teacher for students with developmental difficulties. This is unusually important and referring to what Lesar said also means for blind students, for whom there really should be quality textbooks, or textbooks in Braille's letter, since there is no speech unit in Croatian today, but only in English, therefore, conditions should be created for all students with developmental difficulties to get an opportunity, and they have really good students. Here I don't think we can only talk in law, so only about blind students, because special students, or otherwise, need special textbooks, for example. students with intellectual difficulties. I therefore think it is exceptional, that it would be useful for the Proposer to accept the amendments in which the term is aligned, which is students with developmental difficulties. Because then we're talking about diversity, not special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23449	Thank you. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23450	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I, uh, I've been closely following all the debates here and twice on the board and now I'm asking myself a question, so, dear God, did I get that right or not? We had a law that was passed in 2006 and certain things in practice have become known that they are not good and we now want to fix this in 2008. The promoter, in this case the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has been told here not to repeat it, cited 12 reasons why these amendments and additions to the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools today came on the agenda. And I'm convinced of all 12 of these essential reasons not to repeat them again, we've been participating in this law. And on the parent board in a very democratic and professional debate we wanted and we did intervene when it comes to the amendment that our student and our colleague, a professor who will work with these children, would have a quality textbook, and all for the purpose of our children, because we all swear to the future, children are our future. But it needs to be proven and practically that we stand up for them. And then at the end of the day, I'm surprised by my colleague Lugaric, in particular, it turns out that what we did at two committee sessions, which we all suggested together, not seeing who's from which party, after all, nothing is good in this proposal, it's very surprising. But of course, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues are their rights and their rights. We who have passed the pedagoggy according to Professor Poljak, there is one of his thoughts that teaching is an educational process under the guidance of teachers planically, systematically with a group of students. Of course, it was also considered that the teacher could choose the textbook and, of course, that we have shortened the procedure and possible malversions that could or possibly have occurred in these last two years. My colleagues and colleagues would no longer be in debt and I, as well as my colleagues, will vote in favour of the amendments and additions of this law, but if in practice we claim that something is not in accordance with this law, that something in practice is not right, so, dear God, it is not a sacred letter, we can re-fill it in a year two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23451	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23452	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law and parents and teachers and children expected much more about the quality of textbooks as teaching tools that should actually help students to better master their teaching materials. But the law exclusively talks about the commercial, or the money, costs, my predecessors also talked about the textbook market, protected publishers, the procedure for the purchase of textbooks, pointed out Article 4 which states that, in the process of purchasing textbooks, after the procurement process, on the basis of the need for secured funds in accordance with the limit, my colleague Lugaric also said about the criteria for these restrictions. So the remaining unused funds can be used to obtain didactic methodological resources. In this transfer of funds, I repeat, from two funds, a purchase fund, into a meteorological cost fund, it certainly opens up space for guessing, or corruption, even for what colleagues have pointed out for the pressures of the director of a given textbook. In this law, it is seen that since the distribution of free textbooks, this law does not mention curricula. In fact, he mentioned that more titles remain, more components, higher prices that grow faster than inflation, or heavy bags. And that's why I'm going to look back on this heavy school bag that's one of the reasons that can affect bone growth in children. So the children are developing and, of course, the weight of the bag can lead to poor holding, it was actually seen that it was always a recommendation for health and prevention of spinal deformation that children must have a proper attitude during the period of bone growth. In the long term, because of excessive and irregular loads, musculoskeletal fatigue may occur, as children say, pain in the hands, or pain in the bones. If the bag is worn properly, then the loads are said to be lower. However, in which way we can control our children whether they are carrying properly, whether they are correctly stacking books in the bag, etc., etc. Why did I even take this subject and why did I take the weight? Just because a mother sent me a letter that she wants to send to Mr. Secretary saying that she has two beautiful sons who actually carry bags daily, heavy bags disrupt their health. Both are athletes, one is extremely strong, and the other is small. And every morning when their shifts are in the morning she drives those kids 'cause at least make that bag a little easier for them. And he wonders why no one has tried the same weight compared to their weight to burden and see what it looks like when he basically created all these programs and all these books. She wonders how to keep our kids out of trouble with our deformed spine, etc. etc. The lady also proposes measures that could actually help prevent the same. I would also point out about this topic a research that I believe is familiar with, which is when you actually explore the weight of school bags of students from first to eighth grade and it's calculated that the total weight of students is the easiest actually bag measured in seventh grade, and why it's precisely because of the block clocks. The hardest bag was measured in 6th grade. It carries as much as 10 kilograms and 40 lbs. According to this study, the average weight of school bags of students of all classes is 6 kg. These people who did this weigh students by random selection and received class data. Then they calculated the average weight of the school bag in the student mass and got students to carry seven to a fifth of their weight to school each day. And the optimal weight that a child of school age should carry is up to 10% of the total weight. So, the kid's wearing almost double. If we were to say that for adults, then we'd ask ourselves, adults would have to wear about 14 kilograms each day. So I think this way you can disrupt your child's health. Therefore, it is necessary to consider the equipment in schools, the block clocks, for example the special lockers in which extra books could be placed, etc. Here's something else interesting about that research. In the school year 175 teaching days, the average weight of the school bag is 6 kg by transferring the student in one school year to the back of a huge weight of 2100 kg. What can I say, in conclusion, is that 34% of the schoolboys have a bad attitude. I can finally say that the bag should weigh less than 10% and a maximum of 15% of the body weight of the child. For example, if a child weighs 40 kg, he should not carry more than 4 kg in backpacks, and it would be ideal for wearing 2 to 3 kg of school supplies. Both parents and doctors have for years pointed to this problem of overweight school bags on the back of a child. In fact, some experts also see solutions to this problem in special bags that have anatomical pillows. I think, Mr. Secretary, there have been some negotiations between the education ministry and the product department, design at the Architectural Faculty, so I'd like to ask you nicely if you can tell me something about it as well as the child's health. So the law that changes was passed in 2006. Then we said that as a consequence of the book law, it would be cheaper, that the students would have lighter bags, that there would be fewer textbooks. Two years after the law was passed, what was promised did not essentially come true. Books are more expensive than ever. The duffel bags are harder than ever and there's never been any textbooks. Today, we have warned of the lack of the proposed law that is repeated in this year's amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23453	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23454	Dear colleagues, I see you have tried interdisciplinaryly to explain this weight of the bag. But I would remind you that there is a promise that is repeated every year when laws like this are passed, but also in any election that these school bags will be much easier. And I remind you that I am just such a school bag of a fragile child who weighed 16 and a half kilos just for that school day. So, not with all the textbooks that are divided down here into a meeting hall where none of the government's authorities of those who should provide Croatia with knowledge one easy way to get these children to know the European Union. None of them wanted to try, try how difficult it is and tortured that road to Croatia's knowledge. Also, there is no Mr. Minister here today. But the fact is, he's never here when it comes to school problems, the laws that are related to education and education. There is, however, a State Secretary, but in any case, it would be desirable for Mr. Minister to attend, so he was still paid and paid and was therefore appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be at these sessions. And here I am also taking this opportunity to, with these children having to carry such heavy bags, reminding the Ministry that on 7 April 2008, the city of Djakova and all the municipality's commissioners were asked for free transport for students from first to fourth grade high school so that they would not come into the anti-constitutional category, i.e. how third and fourth grade students, and this also applies to students who go to classes to avoid being in an unequal position. Thank you. There's no normal answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23455	There he is. Reply to the replica of Ms. Tatjana Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23456	Thank you very much, Mr. Winkovic. I'm glad you saw this problem, too, and I remembered your performance when you made the bag, and that was an inspiration to me when I was thinking about what I was going to talk about today about this law. I'd just like to tell you that it's very difficult for postmen to wear mail. But they carry only 11% of their weight. It means that our children are more burdened with growth and development with this size. I hope we actually get some kind of answer from Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23457	Thank you. Ms. Zeljana Okay. [[Intruder: With it not being a performance.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the representatives of the exhibitors, MPs and MPs. Since the content and numerous discussions we discussed today contained a large part of my debate. It's actually most of what I was going to say. More specifically, I could appeal to the presentations of Professor Selem and Mrs. Roksandic. However, as part of my own presentation today, I would also like to say a few important facts. In addition to various didactic and methodical supplements and means textbooks are the most important source of knowledge. They are therefore of fundamental importance in the educational process. In this term of the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader, Croatia also committed itself and clearly defined itself as a knowledge society and therefore all of those discussions on the so-called I don't consider populist measures structural but political issues. Perhaps it is a very symbolic day in which we are discussing, that is the UNICEF Day of the International Fund which actually cares about the quality of the standard of living of children and youth, and I personally believe that the question of textbooks or the quality and structure of textbooks and in fact the entire teaching system and policies of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is also contained in the very quality of children and youth standards in the Republic of Croatia. I'm not referring to a discussion about free textbooks. I think that we have said enough through the replicas and corrections of incorrect allegations and debates ourselves, but I will say that for the use of textbooks as a book for teaching students and students in the Croatian school system is therefore approved by professional experts and relevant state bodies. They are equally responsible for the construction of the entire learning system and authors as intellectual creators and members of expert committees for the evaluation of textbooks as expert quality assessors. Similarly, the administration of the relevant ministry as a state body which administratively approves the use and, of course, at the very end, although not less important publishers as graphic-technical designers and material textbook manufacturers. But here today I want to say that we are equally responsible and we are representatives of the legislative body of the Croatian Parliament. So responsibility is on us, and not only on representatives of the ruling or MPs of the opposition party to criticise but on everyone. So I will also take advantage of the opportunity and welcome all the extraordinary efforts that Dr. Selem and the club themselves have made on behalf of the club and their contribution, the Committee on Science, Education and Culture itself as the parent body that discussed this law and I will say that I welcome constructive cooperation in creating amendments to this important law on education. I also believe that it is necessary to build a system of production, approval and evaluation of textbooks that will enable students and students to learn from textbooks of the highest quality that can be achieved in our conditions. I'd also like to say something about the very legislation on textbooks. Of course, I will not specify the names and changes that took place in the 2001, 2003, 2006 and the textbook standard itself. It is only actually the beginning of building a teaching standard in the Republic of Croatia that should be further improved because of a large number of unresolved issues. And the State Secretary himself said that in fact for more than 20 years it seemed to me that we didn't have a clear legislative regulation on this matter but only a series of guidelines concerning the textbook system itself. How complex and delicate the learning system is, I'll try to argue with the next quote from the position of the profession. I have found some statements from the Association of Authors of textbooks who believe that one of the biggest problems in providing quality textbooks is a insufficient number of experts of high excellence in learning the theory and practice of teaching individual school subjects. They are methodists of teaching respected colleagues and colleagues who work in teaching schools and higher schools and other educational institutions. It almost seems to me that, with rare exceptions, the teaching colleges almost completely disregarded postgraduate and doctoral training from methods, so very specialized Methodists are getting less and less. Today, there are no rare cases that competent methodologyists of individual cases are declaring those who have not spent days with students in development or otherwise gained methodical competence and so on. methodical models invent intuitively without having to do with school life and science. The theory of textbooks, unlike some other countries, is not given systematically to future teachers at no university as far as I know it. The negative consequences of such a scientific policy are directly reflected in the quality of teaching and textbooks. The textbook, namely, is a clear definition, first of all, of the didactic methodical work that has for the purpose of teaching the most effective methods in which the creation of which is necessary is an extremely good knowledge of science from which the content of the teaching course is, as well as philosophy, psychology, didactics and many other disciplines whose knowledge of the specific class therefore connects the methodics themselves. Therefore, one of the basic tasks that is being imposed before us should also be the affirmation of the methods of all teaching subjects as fundamental disciplines for creating a modern textbook. I also welcome all the efforts of the ministry in this regard that I still expect. Also, respected MPs and MPs seem to me that no one has talked today about another very important thing about education. It's a language standard. I will mention the Croatian Mother's initiative to overcome the spelling of the Croatian standard language and to establish a unique spelling but other areas of the language standard. The current slightly dysfunctional state of language standard is in its effective application in textbooks and thus in promoting language culture in the education and education of young generations in Croatian schools. In particular, the authors of professional textbooks have major language problems because the terms of products, their parts or materials and technological procedures are not professionally linguistically processed or standardised and for many even no Croatian expressions exist. I think that's what teams of experts from every area should be in charge of, as well as linguists. And finally here I never thought I'd have to paraphrasise one claim from MP Vinkovic, but I thank him for giving me "lagworth" for this display today, so I'll say that the way to Croatia as a knowledge society cannot be solved overnight. This law is only one in a series of attempts on this painful but certainly long journey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23459	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23460	Well esteemed colleagues, I'm glad that you're standing by and talking here about the negative consequences of scientific policy that didn't actually result in the methodology that's mine and your profession. In fact, it is right to regulate it as a special scientific discipline, or field, but I am surprised why they then supported the report of the National Council for Science which has just so established, despite the fact that it was the opposite of the opinion of the Education Committee that we have found should be as you say and as I think and as we all think here. The Council of Science has determined something completely different, such a report you voted here and accepted. It seems to me that, for the profession, I repeat mine and yours, but also for the future of Croatian schooling, it would be better if we didn't fall under party discipline, but really vote as we think and as we speak. Secondly, in your debate, you said this discussion was about textbooks at the beginning. This discussion about textbooks is not at all at first. We passed the law in 2001, in 2003, we had changes, so in 2006, we passed a new law, so in 2008 we had changes. In parallel, in 2003 we adopted a teaching standard, so we brought a new one in 2007, and now it looks like we're going to bring a new, or 3rd teaching standard by the year. Therefore, not that the debate is not at the beginning, but the debate has already gone a long way, and there are hundreds and hundreds of pages of phonograms that talk about all of us here at the time, and I am actually sorry that the consequences and all of what we have identified as problems in these discussions are later determined after a year, two, three. And that proves these frequent changes and that you weren't actually listening to what's being said here. I repeat, I can almost bet with you and everyone that in two years' time, we will have amendments to the Law on textbooks at the debate because this law is simply not good at it, and this part of yours which is a language standard, so I absolutely support it, and I am very sorry that the Council for the Croatian Language Standard established by Primorac and quite pompously announced this earlier, seems to me almost four years ago that it will make some decision, has not yet made any decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23461	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Zeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23462	Thank you. Here, at the beginning of this replica, I would also like to thank my colleague Lugarić for supporting the language standard. I believe that this is an extremely important moment and especially in the very system of education and education. As far as replication is concerned about the methodology and state of the method in Croatia and the claim that this is just the beginning of the textbook standard, I will only correct you. I didn't say this was the beginning of the establishment. I said it was the beginning of the establishment of the system. I will remind you once again that I am in my presentation, and you can see that in the phonogram I said that for more than 20 years we haven't had a clear system and that it's actually only since 2001, and you will agree with me that this is just the beginning. And finally, I'm going to say that even on the very methods and the textbook system itself, we can't do as I said at the end of my presentation, we can't solve the problem with one law, one debate, in an emergency procedure or in a regular procedure, but it's a long and systematic way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23463	Thank you. And we have a final review, the Honorable Želimir Janjic, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23464	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. First of all, thank you all for participating in the debate and thank you all for having submitted amendments to the amendments and additions to this law. I am convinced that after considering all the amendments that have been made, we will really come up with solutions that are optimal at the moment and that we will be able to implement them in the best way at this point. I'll say first of all that two years ago we decided to get the books from the state budget. I'm going to say that it's a really big help to some parents. Allow me, the prices of textbooks from 1st elementary school to 4th grade high school range from 400 kuna to 1,500 kuna and some kuna. Imagine if someone had, I don't know two or three children of school age and that they should get textbooks at the beginning of the 9th month. It is indeed a major blow to their home budgets, and it is certain that this is good for them, especially those who have lower incomes. Otherwise, they often had to borrow all the necessary textbooks for their children so that they could be educated. Of course it's a big help. On the other hand, we had the chance to hear some who said they were willing to take part, that they were better property and we just set it up and here we now have a system of participation. Of course, if we gave up something, you can imagine what a reaction would be to those who have already experienced it as one standard that is being secured from the state budget. When we talk about it, there is also the question that some students would keep certain textbooks, mainly because of the state's graduation, those mandatory items, if you want election papers. We have so far resolved the rules on the preservation and use of textbooks since we said the textbooks were intended for years of use and of course that possibility was open, the percentage that the student should pay to keep the textbook and some of them were entitled to use, as well as some who had destroyed that should in some ways calm the school. We here, of course, by sublegal and school acts, open up the possibility of it still being so, and now that the percentages are looking at each other differently, then it can naturally be consistent with the percentages, so we don't consider it a problem at all. When it comes to limitations, then it is said that teachers may look exclusively at the price to get a set of textbooks for one student in a particular class in a specific programme. I'll remind you that prices are moving somewhere from about 400 kuna for first grade elementary school to 4th grade, let's say somewhere around 1,500 kuna. It is not difficult to see which can be average values, and the teaching standard is the one that determines the textbook and some other teaching tool, not 3, 4 or 5 as far as it has been. So when we talk about these sizes, I don't think there's much to worry about, and that the moment the limits are prescribed, we're going to achieve that goal that we wanted to achieve. It is mentioned here, among other things, the Rules on the work of expert committees, so the esteemed chairman of the board, MP Furio Radin opened the question when it comes to textbooks used by minority communities, in accordance with the Law on Language and Letter of National Minorities, and it is precisely one of these amendments that can be addressed by the addition of this regulation that we have, and it is said that we will comply with, within a certain time, with what we have now proposed this law, so that the amendment can go, but it can also be regulated by a rule, so I would like to respond to the esteemed representative. Here is the question and heavy bags, and I am very glad that the esteemed representative Bonačić said and there are ways to resolve it if we want right away, one part, a block of hours, so that it is known that the student takes less pupils to school, and more permanently, of course, with one shift, more permanent full-time students where the student will be able to postpone their textbooks and not wear all of them at home. So that's what he said I'd say the best-quality way to solve this problem that you've brought up with a very nice analysis that you've just met us with. In one part, the question of free transport is also touched, which is not really the subject of this, but I must say that we have covered a large part of the population with these incentive measures, i.e. free transport, and if you want, by law on areas of special care, we have jumped in and accepted third and fourth classes that are not yet in that generation as we gradually accept it. I will not talk about the laws on islands that cover everything on the islands, and then there is one very small part of the students who are not covered by it are third and fourth classes that are not in the areas of special state care, but allow when local self-government units have been willing so far, and much of them have done so, co-financed or financed the transportation of students then it was a great burden for them. Since the state budget has taken over these costs in a large part of them are very little left, so if you want and when it comes to Osijek-Baranja County they know well which areas are fully covered by these funds from the state budget, which areas are covered by the Law on the areas of special state care, so it is very easy to calculate that there is a much smaller part of it and we are sure that the local self-government units will at this time how much longer it needs to be covered without any major problems. In two years, everything is actually going to be in the system. Finally, I am obliged here to say, the Council for the Croatian Literature Language Standard, which is headed by academics Radoslav Katičić works in a way that has one session every month and is advertised from each session through a press release in which they make it very clear what they have discussed and what their recommendations are. So it's not intended for them to bring in some big document that's going to talk about this matter the way it might be expected than just like this, that's how they've been determined and handled, I hope you have the opportunity to see it. Here is the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, with one more thanks to all who participated, everyone who submitted the amendments, I hope tomorrow we will pass a law that will allow all students from the 1st grade to finish with the 4th grade of high school according to the sublegal laws and next year to have textbooks and thus raise the quality of teaching.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23465	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23466	Mr. Secretary of State is not true that the state will provide all students with free textbooks, precisely your proposal says that only one part of the students will have it and that one part of the parents will participate in their price. I would like what you are proposing here and it seems to me that it will get Parliament's support, it is giving up the free textbook policy that we are no longer trying to interpret any other way than exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23467	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23468	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school, the emergency procedure was, first and second reading of P.Z. Number 194. The debate is closed. You've been sent a review of the amendments to the bench. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. State Secretary Želimir Janjic. We're moving on to a plea. We have the first amendment, representatives of Iron Srecko Flego and Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23469	The applicant shall not accept the first amendment because, in accordance with Article 1(3), the electronic textbook is considered to be another teaching tool.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23470	Here you go, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23471	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, team up. I thought there was a slip. So you in law say that when you call for rationalization and everything is not possible to have a textbook in any other form than in the form of a book. Today if you're buying, and it seems to me that you're insisting on smart records, if you're buying computers and equipping schools, I think at least that's how you say you're doing it, it's amazing to me that you can't agree to any other option, but it's a book textbook. The electronic textbook is in any case significantly cheaper, it can be more interactive and therefore I insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23472	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Second, the amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23473	This amendment to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture shall be adopted in the amended form, in such a way that the amendment covers and amends Article 21(1), so that the added part reads in Article 17(1) and (2) of subparagraphs 1 and 2 of this Article: if it does not comply with national and special girl, and if the rapporteur so requests in writing. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee, Selem, I ask you to accept the amendment [[Intruder: We accept.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23474	Thank you very much. This amendment accepted in the State Secretary's formulation. 3rd Amendment of the Representatives of the Iron Srecko Fleg and Marija Lugarić to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23475	This amendment is not accepted by the Proposer for the reason that the existing definition shows that the textbook is one of the sources of knowledge with other means of teaching. At the same time, the Minister should not be deleted, as implementing regulations under the State Administration System Act are passed by a minister, not a ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23476	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23477	Mr. Secretary of State, it says to you that the textbook is a basic teaching tool. What we're trying to say is that it's just one of the teaching tools. It seems to me that's how you defined something to HNOS if anyone else remembers it at all. The second thing is that in the original, law-planned definition, there is a supplement that actually falls outside the law, but in the part-circuit of the textbook to say so, it is that the textbook must be culturally adapted to Croatian national heritage and tradition. Now on the side of the discussion what it's supposed to mean, and that's something that there's a consensus about and it's not controversial, but if we're going into defining such a thing that needs to go to standard, then there should be something else, not just this. So please vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23478	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fourth amendment, MPs of Ms. Ljubice Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23479	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23480	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Fifth Amendment, representative of Mr. Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23481	It is not accepted, because it is not necessary to prescribe the ministry's obligation to seek the previous opinion of the publishers, because it would be very difficult to implement in a formal sense. But as in all other procedures, this sublegal act will come to this document by certainly respecting the opinions of all stakeholders in this process, as well as the publishers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23482	There are no MPs. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Six. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23483	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23484	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 7th Representative Ivanka Roksandić?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23485	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23486	It becomes an integral part of this law. 8. Representatives of Iron Happy Flego and Mrs. Marija Lugaric?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23487	It is not accepted, since the existing formulation ensures that the textbook, or other curricula, will not be different from that authorised. So, it's going to be exactly the same as what's given... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23488	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23489	Mr. Secretary of State, the current formulation allows manipulation. If you should be given a publisher on the contest as four copies of the textbook in the print press, then I don't know why you should be given in the form ready for the press. A form ready for printing implies a certain to say graphic preparation on foils, etc. I don't understand myself too much about printing, but people who understand it say it's something that's not copyright, but intellectual property of a publisher. I don't know why the ministry, apart from a copy of the book of cocoa, would look, should prepare for the press, unless we're going to develop some theories now, and hopefully it wasn't some intention, that if there was some kind of dispute then the ministry would actually take advantage of such preparations. Therefore, since this can be interpreted by different interpretations, and in order to be absolutely clear, it seems to me that we are very well understood, I am also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23490	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Nine. The National Minority Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23491	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23492	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The 10th Representative Furia Radin?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23493	This amendment is fully identical to the previously accepted amendment, so since it has been accepted by the previous amendment, I kindly ask Agent Radin to withdraw his amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23494	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 11. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23495	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23496	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 12. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23497	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23498	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 13. The National Minority Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23499	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23500	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 14th Representative Furia Radin?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23501	It's the same case. I'm asking the representative to withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23502	This amendment has been withdrawn, Mr Furi Radin. 15th representative Ivanka Roksandić?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23503	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23504	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The 16th representative of Ljubica Lukačić?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23505	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23506	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 17. The National Minority Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23507	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23508	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The 18th representative of Furia Radin?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23509	The MP will withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23510	He's retreating because he's previously accepted. 19th Representative Ivanka Roksandić?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23511	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23512	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 20. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23513	Sustained. Allow the President-in-Office of the Committee in a very small change in form and in a way that in the proposed amendment of paragraph 8 behind the words "Minister" puts an end to it and deletes the words "responsible for the field of education" since the whole text of the law has already been introduced by the Minister instead of a full name.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23514	Thank you. This amendment has been accepted in this explanation by Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23515	It is the 21st amendment of MP Ivanka Roksandić. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23516	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 22. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23517	Since we have accepted the amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture previously in changed form, the content is actually consumed, so I would ask the chairman of the Committee on Law to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23518	It's consummated retreating.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23519	Okay. Thank you. This one's been consummated. 23rd Amendment of Representatives Iron Srecko Flego and Marija Lugaric?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23520	This amendment is not accepted since the mentioned matter will be regulated by implementing rules after the adoption of this law, and we do not believe that there should be so much mistrust that this matter is resolved by the implementing regulation, because it is not a unique case, because we have such situations otherwise. And when it comes to this second part of the amendment, there is a reason as well as in Amendment 3, because the implementing rules are brought by the minister, not by the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23521	Mrs. Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23522	Mr. Secretary of State, what concerns me and my colleagues, Flege, and one other number of MPs, is a key amendment. In this law, if you do not accept our amendment, you have introduced a new set of taxes, that is, some kind of self-dependence. So, your parents are going to participate in the price of textbooks, and we don't regulate anywhere that a certain number of textbooks, we suggest in accordance with the participation, but in any other way it can be regulated, they have the right to remain in their possession. Your parents will pay the textbooks twice according to your proposal. Once through taxes and charging the state budget and twice through their own participation. So when we pass laws that determine that citizens need to pay for something, it cannot be solved by sublegal acts. Either way, everything in your law is resolved by sublaws who will pay and how much they will pay, and these are the things that should have been settled in the law, then it seems minimally correct to us if nothing else determines the right ownership of the parents who have these textbooks and paid. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23523	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 24th Representative Ivanka Roksandić?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23524	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23525	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 25th Agent Ivanka Roksandić?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23526	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23527	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 26. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23528	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23529	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 27th representative of Govzden Happy Flege and Maria Lugaric?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23530	This amendment is not accepted, given that the publisher is granted the textbook, not the author, but the publisher. Therefore, it is necessary for the publisher himself to decide on the withdrawal of the textbook, and they are contractually governing their relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23531	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23532	Dear Mr. Secretary of State. If we didn't have something more natural in the last eight years on this subject, then it would have cost a little bit. It's almost amazing to me that you're actually getting yourself into a situation where you're going to be advocating between publishers and authors, since in the last few years, the wording has been in the law as it has been and they're kind of collectively entitled to copying that textbook. That's how it was written at the end and the contracts. Therefore, it seemed more optimal to me that if we are talking about the withdrawal of textbooks, it should be if they are both looking together for the publisher and the author. I don't think you're actually at risk of dating a kind of dispute that you don't need at all because there are a lot of controversial points that you're going to need to solve, but if you insist on having an extra job, I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23533	This amendment has been withdrawn. 28 amendments to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23534	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23535	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 29 The Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23536	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23537	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And 30 representatives of Iron Srecko Flego and Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23538	It is not accepted because the implementing rules under the State Administration System Act are passed by a minister and the deadline may be 30, 60 days, half a year or a year. We've decided here in 90 days, we think it's an appropriate deadline but we'll do anything to make it a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23539	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23540	My colleague Flego and I wanted to help you with this amendment. If it's such a rush that the law that has 19 articles you're proposing on it seems to me 26 amendments and additions, you've accepted over 20 amendments here. Everything has to happen within 10 days and you're actually leaving yourself the right 90 days for implementing regulations, but if you want to make it harder for yourself, then I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23541	This amendment has been withdrawn. I thank the Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on basic and secondary school textbooks was adopted by a majority vote with 75 votes in favour, 32 abstentions and 1 against. Along with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23542	We move to the 2nd item of the agenda, that is - Proposed law on vocational education, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 208 In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Želimir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23543	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs before us is the Law on Professional Education in First Reading, let me introduce you to a few details. In the system of secondary education of all students, so somewhere around 186,000 students, 75% are in the system of vocational education, 25% in the system of gymnasium. We have never before had a special law on vocational education, but this matter was governed by two laws. It's the Law on education and education in elementary and high school and it's the Law on crafts. We are now proposing to standardise this with a special law for a number of reasons, so it is fundamental that this system should be regulated as it is specific, since for each economy it is very important and especially in this time it should be flexible to adapt very quickly to the new labour market needs or to continue education in the educational vertical or lifelong learning. Of course, technologies change very quickly, and that's also one of the strong reasons why we need to sort this out in a different way than we've done so far. We have adopted a strategy for developing vocational education in the Republic of Croatia and we are not really the only European countries that want to bring changes to their vocational education precisely for these reasons that I have mentioned. However, when it comes to joining the European Union, we do not have any requirements in this regard, but there is only one article, one provision relating to harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, that is Article 2 which says that children of citizens of the European Union countries can, under the same conditions, enter vocational education programmes and study with us as our citizens. This provision will enter into force, of course, on the date of the entry into force of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, and thus it is written in the transitional and final provisions. Of course, this law also relies on other strategic documents such as the development plan for the education and education system from 2005 to 2010 and, of course, also refers to the national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education. This law defines the objectives of vocational education, which include the acquisition of qualifications in the labour market, but also for further education and lifelong learning. What I would particularly like to emphasise is what is important in this law, the establishment of a council on vocational education, so one body that would actually be strategically considering changes in the system of vocational education. What I would particularly like to emphasise, which is important in this law, is the establishment of a Council on Professional Education, so one body that would actually be strategically considering changes in the system of vocational education. That body would be composed of a number of stakeholders referred to this system of vocational education. Furthermore, this law defines the structure and the work of the Professional Education Agency, one part that is not covered by the Regulation establishing the Professional Education Agency, and here we give them some more powers and this is very important. In fact, we established the Professional Education Agency in order to have better support for a system of vocational education that is so large, and before we had only nine advisors covering all these 75%. Educational sectors, 13 in vocational education and each education sector should be provided for by the sectoral council. The Sector Council is designed as a body that will firstly form a competent ministry, so let's say the sectoral council that will cover health programmes, will be appointed by the Minister of Health which is most logical, but of course by all those stakeholders who are addressed to the sector and their tasks will be determined primarily by standards of interest, that is what you mentioned in the previous debate, so the first standards of interest. This will also help the network of programs, so these standards of occupation will be very clear that in some places there the school has no conditions, has not reached that standard in order to educate it. So, this will help the founders to set up a network of programs, so if you want the school networks, as we have established by the past law that we have passed this basic Law on primary and secondary education, and the deadline of a year in which the founders should do so is running. The second thing that will be done by the sectoral council is to establish the standard of qualifications. So these are the outcomes of education, so this is a new paradigm that is not only characteristic of us, but actually for the entire European school system. And ultimately there will be curriculas of individual programmes, individual occupations in certain sectors. And that's the approach we've all advocated, so I dare say everyone here in the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, these laws and credit points are introduced to be assigned to the course subject of professional qualification. One credit point is the equivalent of 25 hours of burden on average, the average burden on students if they have successfully confirmed acquired competences, and once acquired points of a teaching course are recognised as a acquired part of any other professional qualification consisting of that teaching course, which actually enables both horizontal and vertical passing than has been the case so far. I'll just point out here, so it's about hours, so there might be some different interpretations. The specificities of professional curricula are further prescribed and a minimum share of key to professional competences is defined. A quality assurance system for vocational education is introduced in such a way as to name special committees in schools that are obliged to care for quality with a precise structure as you have seen in the proposal for this law. So, with what we have at the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, the implementation of national exams, the external evaluation of schools itself, we have in schools here and these quality teams that will take care of it and therefore, through some self-evaluation process, determine measures, deadlines in which to achieve some of their goals and to remove possibly some of the weak points they have in their work. Conditions for enrolment in secondary vocational education shall be laid down and applications with difficulties shall be subject to registration in accordance with the decision of the competent services. The beneficiary, who for more than two years for legitimate reasons has discontinued his education, is allowed to continue education with the conditions for continuing and acquiring qualifications if the curricula has been changed, and it is possible to be because we predict that we do so every at least five years. So, so far, the question has been raised if he signed up for one program, and he should have ended up doing so. However, if he had stopped his education in the meantime, he would have wanted to finish it, and the program changed what to do now? Here we answer that question. A network of curricula and vocational education institutions proposed by the relevant sectoral councils shall be prescribed. The rights and obligations of the institution for the vocational education of students and employers from the implementation of practical training and exercise shall be laid down by the Treaty on the implementation of practical teaching with the employer, and this procedure shall be laid down by the Minister. Therefore, for each teaching, a contract must be concluded with an employer in crafts. Let's say it's a contract with a licensed craftsman and it's arranged by mutual contractual relations. The right to the prize paid by the employer during the course of practical training and exercise by the employer is determined, and according to the time spent on the practical course, except for some activities where some other regulations are different. Finally, conditions are laid down for the performance of teachers of professional theoretical content, teachers of practical teaching and exercise, professional teachers and co-workers in the course. I will remind you that when we passed the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary school that we deleted that provision that was restrictive in our system and that she said that with 65 years of age and at least 20 years of retirement must be retired. However, as we talk about the deficit especially of teachers of professional subjects, we removed that provision and accepted that the provision of the general regulation is valid, so the Labour Act, if it is not agreed otherwise with the employer, to overcome this lack of professional staff. In this solution, we are now taking a step further into this, and we say that when it comes to professional subjects, we accept 180 ECTS with addition, as we have so far called, pedagogical-psychological education, which includes also a number of ECTS in those colleges that will give these competences. And in the end, I have to mention the centers of new technologies. We have them, so these are our centres of excellence, we have 16 at this point in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we commit these centers to ensure that they are trained in those schools that are gravitating this area so that they are fully qualified for their professions that they are educated in those conditions that they may not have in their school, which is very important. Here's Mr. Vice President, for an introduction this much. Thank you to all who will participate in the debate that you will give your contribution, and we will certainly consider it in the preparation of the second reading. So if one of you is interested in me participating in preparing another reading we are open to that possibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23544	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Dear Peter Selem, chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23545	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft Law on Professional Education at its 10th session. He considered it clear as a home working body, and the opening statement was submitted by a representative of the applicant. So far, the law has been regulated in Croatia only a small part of the system of vocational education i.e. education related to the so-called tied turns. It is, as you have heard, settled by the Law of Trade, as well as by implementing regulations under that law. The need to pass laws that will regulate vocational education, therefore, has been indicated for a long time. Professional education has been a very dynamic activity, especially since the opening of negotiations for Croatia's accession to the European Union. Various programming documents in Croatia, a white document on vocational education and training, proposals, recommendations related to professional education policy and training within the CARDS 2002, so the draft Law on Professional Education was prepared. The aim is to develop competence-based qualifications at sector level with the mandatory involvement of social partners. The system based on the law proposed should allow for permanent harmonisation of vocational education with labour market needs i.e. the construction of a system of vocational education and training for lifelong learning and, in particular, the mobility of employees. The debate found that this bill was finally responding to a number of issues raised in the field of vocational education. Contemporary government of matter, taking into account the views and proposals of employers, as well as the specific position of students, the students of vocational education, and all of this in a normatively legal way. The importance of this regulation can be expressed by the fact that professional and artistic schools in Croatia make up three quarters of all secondary schools in Croatia. The importance of the management solution in this area is particularly highlighted. This is primarily the establishment of a Council on Professional Education with broad autonomous areas, and 13 sectoral councils for each educational area. These organisational forms will certainly achieve the cooperation of all interested participants in vocational education. The solutions to improve the position of teachers of professional subjects, as well as the regulatory needs to be established, have also been welcomed. centres of new technologies in vocational education institutions. The relevant attention in the debate is also addressed to the question of rewarding students in these schools, and more useful suggestions have been given to the promoter. Finally, I would say that during the debate on the parliamentary committee, it was concluded that unlike the previous law that we discussed and where there was a lot, a lot of objections, that this is a very high-quality law. There was no reference to the large ones, nor any suggestion, clearly that the law was improved in some additions. All in all, it is proposed to the Croatian law to adopt the proposal of the Law on Professional Education, and all objections and proposals will be addressed to the applicants in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23546	Thank you. The Development and Reconstruction Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership? Honorable representative and board president Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23547	Honorable President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament held at the 12th session on 3 December of this year, discussed the draft Law on Professional Education. Following the opening presentation of the applicant's representatives in the debate, it is pointed out that the modern system of vocational education should meet the needs and requirements of the labour market, which the existing system of vocational education did not allow to a sufficient extent. A positive assessment of the regulation of this matter by a special law, since the existing way of regulating vocational education was an integral part of general education. The learning and working synergy with life's learning, and the relationship with the economy, are the main newspapers of this bill. The debate also indicated that the distinction between formal learning and non-formal learning should be more clearly defined. Furthermore, it would be good to review the provision on the number of members of the Board for Professional Education, in particular in the section relating to the number of representatives of the trade unions, and the representation of representatives of persons with disabilities. Since this proposal for a law is not discussed on the Economic Social Council, the Committee recommended that the applicant meet all the social partners with the proposed law and consider their observations, recommendations, in order to achieve the agreement of all relevant factors until the second reading of this law. After the debate, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion. This is to accept the proposal of the Law on Professional Education and other all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the Proposer to consider them when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23548	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Economic Committee? No, I don't. A few notices. First, a session of the Committee on Gender Equality will be held at 2 p.m. at the "Ivana Kukuljevic" hall. Secondly, today we will work without a break and probably a little longer in the evening to arrive at a certain and planned dynamic that we have determined for the adoption of the law. The ones we predicted before the break should be adopted. And I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23549	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Regardless of the fact that we passed the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education this summer, we now have before us a proposal for a Law on Professional Education which we consider justified. He is justified because vocational education is not only quantitatively dominant in secondary education but it is justified for both economic reasons and purely specific requirements of vocational education in the world as well as in Croatia. It is equally justified because it regulates the matter which could and should be of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, given that the level of development of its economy in which the workforce in this middle domain has just been well-trained, so as to say, can give a new impulse to development and a new cycle of development. By our judgment, the law is very happily resolved. He's well structured, he's logically arranged, he has his logical sequence and flow, he's nomotechnically neat, miraculously consequently and consistently following a curricular concept and thus we welcome him. He is short but very substantial and he is also going in a regular procedure so that we will have two readings on two different sessions, which is if I can quote one part of this morning's debate material proof that certain quality results can also be achieved in this ministry, especially when reaching out to experts outside the ministry, so our suggestion would be that in the future and so doing, so that the ministry relys on those people who know and can do so. The law is above all modern, it is modern because it is oriented towards the learning outcomes by which most European education is directed in developed countries. It assumes both horizontal and vertical passivity or mobility. He speaks of modularity although our suggestion would be to further develop modularity there, for example if certain interests are conditioned by the absorption of certain modules. So let's say, it's possible that there's a difference between autolimary and autolaquirers in three modules, and then it's optimal that the transition from one occupation to another goes through the absorption of only three modules, not the entire education, or between auto mechanics and, say, autoelectricists. So we suggest that this be further worked out. It assumes the continued development of vocational education and thus is modern and dynamic because, as you know, the production sector is constantly changing and adapting to scientific and research results. It requires alignment with the labour market and is finally a law that also normably foresees that it serves the labour market needs and that it kind of locomates the market. He also foresees social partners in the agreement. It distinguishes formal, informal and informative education. And finally, I hope that he is in line with that European agency and its standards that care about the professional education of the European Training Foundation, which has its own exposure in Croatia, and thus also enables those solutions that are compatible with European standards. He also talks about a network of programs that we prefer to talk about about a network of schools. He's talking about centers of new technologies, and he's actually talking about excellence. In many respects, therefore, he is very modern and advanced and brings great satisfaction to us. Nevertheless, we have several suggestions, perhaps more technically than by substance. Let's say we think that, I'll take them out but very briefly, I won't elaborate them that formal learning marks activity. It is, therefore, on page seven and Article 3(5), that formal learning is not just about improving knowledge but about gaining and improving knowledge and skills. So it's formally so much that we get a certain certificate or a degree when we finish a certain education. Then we think that, in Article 3(6), that's what we should say. Article 4(2), we would much prefer to use modern terminology, so instead of sexual balance, we would talk about gender balance, instead of putting parts of the curricula into place, I think we should place here that it is about electoral items and parts of the curricula in Article 8(9). For example, in Article 13, we believe that after the definition of the agency, we should first mention its activity and only then, which consists of, who forms it, etc., a purely technical remark. In Article 34, too, we would suggest not to enroll in the curiculum but to enroll in an institution implementing the curiculum. So, it's hard to fit into a curricula if we understand it as that instruction that teaches. It's about the law. And now another pleasure with the law. The Sector Council will certainly contribute to the easier realization of everything the law prescribes and we hope that it will be so formed that it allows for a very dynamic and highly competent change that vocational education deserves. By passing the law, however, we have two difficulties. On the one hand, it adopts and prescribes very high standards and seems to us that its application will require much more resources than those foreseen by the law. And we just don't know how we're going to deal with this crisis situation. And secondly, I would also mention here some opinions, almost objecting to some professional and interesting associations, which are also our views. I think there's still a series of law enforcement preparations to be carried out. The Sector Council, their formation so from the most competent people, as I mentioned. Then one painful point that we warned that deadlines in the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education were completely unrealistic. They're national curriculas. The national curricula should be applied, so bring it in so the whole thing can work. Likewise, it takes professional curricula to do so, and I fear their adoption will be as complicated, sometimes painful as national curricula. Thirdly, it is actually a national qualification framework, so it is a nomenclature of occupation and its description. And I don't think that, if I may say so, we should discover warm water, but that it should simply be largely followed by the European qualification framework that has been adopted and entered into by only some possible Croatian specificities and we hope there won't be too many. The final means of equipment and especially workshops will be needed significantly higher because vocational education may be the most devastation in the Republic of Croatia. In this way we think that there will be a largely regulated area of secondary education with Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. President of the Board another remark that you mentioned in the report, I would stress it here, when the law on artistic education is passed, then secondary education will be fully regulated, and we hope that it will be done in time so that we can apply that law in the next school year. These are colleagues and colleagues of the reasons why the SDP Club will support this law and I hope that the proposings will adopt these remarks or at least consider them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23550	Thank you. Another notice. Defence Committee members are informed that the 10th session will take place today at 16:30 in the Ivan Mažuranic Hall 84th with the agenda, "The proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions.". On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23551	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is what we have heard in this opening presentation, the presentation of our Committee president, professional education in Croatia is part of secondary education, but several documents have been produced in the last few years that have created and monitored their development. In the development plan for the education and education system adopted by the Government in 2005-2010, the strategic objectives resulting from this document is certainly the arrangement of this area in education which, as counterpart Flego said, was mostly regulated by law, this fundamental law on education and education, and another law, the Law on crafts. In addition to a whole series of regulations, the implementing rules stemming from other laws relating to vocational education, one such basic law that will deal exclusively with vocational education so far, we have not had. It's interesting even that 24% of students are enrolled in three-year secondary schools, 45% of their four-year education. So far, they have enrolled 344 courses performed by 6000 681 teachers, an expert teacher. I quote the figures just to get a picture of how much is right in the education system, how much of this vocational education has not been particularly regulated so far. And I must mention here that we are also supporting and trying to encourage the ministry to finally and artistic education get its art education law, in order to sort of close that middle of high school education in Croatia. The Professional Education Agency will remind all of us, it was established in January 2005 and has had several goals in its start-up and in its current work, and this is primarily to help all those in the system of vocational schools prepare, here is also to implement one of these future laws, but it has also been tasked with redefining the educational sectors, redefining the professions in the education sectors, defining the output knowledge, skills and competence for each interest and finally making a modern and open curricula for each individual profession. It is good that, apart from the agency and the ministry in the making and of this law and all this which was the purpose and tasks of the agency, I would say the social and other partners, from the trade unions, Croatian employers' associations, different ministries, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Employment, Faculty, Professional Institutions, and the same vocational schools that participated in the creation of this. Thanks to this partnership, and above all to the partnership between the Croatian Chamber of crafts, ministries and vocational schools that conduct education for craft professions, in 2004, a dual system in the education of crafts professions succeeded in putting into a unique school system for vocational education in a three-year period, which introduced a lot of order in vocational schools. This kind of good model has been applied as far as I can see to making this law and all these tasks ahead of us, and I believe that because, as my colleague Flego said, there is an extremely good and modern law ahead of us. Through two large CARDS projects in 2002, which dealt with vocational education and training and CARDS in 2003, which strengthened schools for vocational education and training, by setting up centres of excellence which this CARDS programme in 2003 supported 13 projects in different counties and cities to equip modern cabinets, cabinets of new technological development, precisely such centres of excellence, therefore, one large part of schools that can be said are almost in all regions, that is, prepared for one such education, I will mention a technical school in Sisak that has received one such center of excellence that can help all professional schools in Sisak-Moslavina County to also educate for interest and retraining for various forms and formal and informal and informal education. That's exactly what the idea of centers like this is, which is very good. He also said that we have reduced our colleague Flego from 29 professional areas of the professional sector to 13 which is good. We also reduced the number of professions, and that's good, and we adapted ourselves to such recognizability in Europe because we had different professions in professions. I can tell you for many years I was an employee at a professional school, so it would be funny to now list some of the activities that were almost defined for the making of the underwear, the tops of the shoes, for the processing of particles by separating particles so within one occupation we had 3, 4 different terms. So I think it's really good that we've reduced these professional sectors and that we're working on reducing the number of professions. We've come from three artists to an art sector and I think that the Law on Art Education should really get the secretary of state before this Parliament soon and that we should make it easier for art schools to work. The ability of the vocational education and training systems will also be reflected in the recognition of the current and future needs of the labour market, which will certainly require the development of a system of data collection at national, regional and local level. The needs of flexibility of this system will be achieved by the development of the modular organization "curriculum", and we have already mentioned the methodology here today, and I apologize, at whose centre is the student above all, and will be based on the electoral skills, knowledge and output competences. This system of vocational education should be part of the overall economic development strategy and the proposed law test allows equal availability to all through regular education, retraining, requalification and lifelong learning, recognising formal, informal, informative forms of knowledge acquisition, skills and competence. An important part of this proposed law is to regulate the partnership that I have talked about and to include all social partners and others in the development and maintenance of vocational education and education and training systems. The proposed law, my colleague Flego said, and I agree with him, is good. It covered all the elements relevant to vocational education from the objectives, the acquisition of professional qualifications, the definition of "curriculum" in vocational education, which is important and especially important that both the local community and the school institution themselves, the institution that implements this education within 15% of the overall programme and plan can be involved in the development and should be involved in the development of part of "curricula". The law is being developed, and the secretary of state has also said the quality of education system for which the commission is called. Very often, we have just complained to the vocational schools that students who do not have adequate competences, who are not ready for the labour market, and who may not know enough about the profession they are educated for. I think it's good that we have only quality control now, that it's good that in the second year we check the work of students, students on a practical course because it is the basis of vocational education but not only of students but also of employers and of those who give it and provide it because very often it's been difficult to measure the administrative value of those workshops, those employers of any craftsmen, any small, medium-sized entrepreneurs who organised this practice in their workshops. I think it's good because this law foresees something else which is that the founder of the facility, the schools are involved in providing places for practical teaching because I have to tell you from experience that so far students or only the Chamber of crafts that has so far concluded these contracts for the conduct of practice have been left to themselves. Encouraging, seeking, begging employers about whether or not they will accept a student for practice. Another good thing is in this law, and that is this cash compensation at the level of the paid net salary in the Republic of Croatia in a certain procedure for participants who stay for a certain period of time to conduct practical teaching. Normally, the law provides for the time spent in practice and in a certain percentage for the first, second and other years, which is good, according to the abilities that the student can show in that particular period. But from personal experience, I speak here as the former head of a professional school, and I also suggested on the committee in the debate that this percentage should not be limited, but Mr. Secretary of State should, as a motivation, enable each student to receive an additional reward so that this law must provide for the possibility that the employer can reward the student beyond these percentages. So according to what he achieves as a result of working on practice. In addition to what students do in practice, this provision is also in a law that is good and I believe that it came from what colleagues who work in vocational schools have, which is that these vocational schools and institutions very often provide services or products of certain items that are later placed on the labour market, and the law foresees that profit from these purposes is used exclusively to perform the development of activities. That's good. You in this way what school, I will tell the dictionary of profit, can very much follow back to this part of the arrangement of the practicals, improvements and equipment and standards of a school. And I mentioned these centers, the centres that will play a special role, for which we stand, but also the centres and the way in which all areas in all the districts in the regions will be able to do as best as possible, and you yourself have said, and this law will help build a new network of schools, I would also say, better a new network of programs than schools, because at this point in the field we have everything. So we have schools that have neither well equipped cabinets, nor material, nor from these technical conditions, to, I would say, personnel conditions, and produce some new occupations. Here, in the end, I see my time is running out, I think we should welcome this law. It will certainly show whether it is good or not. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the law in its first reading. I hope that you will also respect some of these comments made and I will also conclude that we expect this last one to be dealt with in a package of laws, which is the Law on Artistic Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23552	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The second is Honorable Representative Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23553	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that we have received a quality explanation of this law as well as comments and debates led by my colleagues where there has been a lot of information, therefore, I may repeat myself in some part of the law, but I will also try to comment on something where I agree with the predecessors what it looks like and in practice. So this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, although I think the Secretary of State has said that it is not our obligation, but I think it is very good that we adopt this law. Professional education is part of secondary education in the Republic of Croatia, and is governed by the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools and the Law on crafts. Professional schools that we share on technical, industrial and crafts, depending on the type of curricula and programs and their duration. Technical and industrial schools work according to the programmes adopted in accordance with the Law on Education and Education, and the programme of crafts activities has been brought by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship on the proposal of the Croatian Chamber of crafts and, with the consent of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, all in accordance with the Law on crafts. An existing system... education in the Republic of Croatia is not fully in line with the needs of the labour market, which is very important to emphasise, and so have my predecessors also stressed as important because market needs analyses have not been sufficiently carried out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The existing curricula and programmes do not allow for sufficient adoption of modern knowledge. These plans do not fully monitor the development of new knowledge and technology. The smaller part of the system is governed by the Law on crafts, as well as by the implementing rules adopted under that law. The need for a new law stems from the fact that this large part of the system of education has so far not been regulated by the necessary law, i.e. by a special law. Professional education has specific needs aimed at students as users, as well as labour market needs, so to employers. This bill provides for the involvement of all stakeholders through the Council's system for vocational education and training from sectoral councils, which is also good for inclusion. The need to pass this law for a long time and is also related to the opening of negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Preparations were carried out and developed by the working group, meaning strategy and legislation within the KARC in 2002, then vocational education and training and modernisation and institution building. It is necessary to develop qualifications at sectoral level with the mandatory involvement of social partners. It is also a priority to take measures to strengthen the reputation of vocational education, which requires an open, flexible, individualised system that ensures a rapid transition to working life or further education, and supports the development of competences in line with the labour market. Thus, the modern system of vocational education responds to the needs of the individual and in a way that analyses the current and foresees future trends in the labour market and an educational offer adapted to labour market requirements. This law will give us a modern system of professional qualifications, a permanent harmonisation of vocational education with labour market needs. The role of teachers in a learning system will also be defined and a system of quality assurance of vocational education will be established. Personally, I think that there is a need to modernize vocational schools, or rather school workshops with new machines, because it cannot be taught, especially practical, based solely on help, to tell the simulators, but especially in our centres located outside of the capital where there are not enough licensed workshops. There will be a difference because in Zagreb we will be able to make it very, in my opinion, to implement this law very well, and this law, however, outside of Zagreb or in the centres, and even larger cities in certain counties, I do not think it is possible, there are not enough such licensed workshops, and there could be a question of law enforcement. That's why I think it's necessary, so school centres, so technical schools and industrial equipment, and of course it's big money. That's what Mr. Flego mentioned, so I think it's necessary and it's going to be necessary to invest and certain funds. As regards the acquisition of professional qualifications, I would pay a lot of attention to Article 6, indent 5, which says that professional qualifications standards are regularly aligned with labour market needs in general every 5 years, means that through this law education will professionally follow, so all the achievements of new technologies. The quality assurance system of vocational education will therefore be implemented under a rational network of programmes, then a single database, a system of evaluation, incentives and corrective measures. If the criteria for enrolment are, as sometimes were, just the number of children in a local community, and not these other criteria that I was talking about, it means what teaching means a certain school has, what professional teachers have, then tradition, then we will not achieve what we said in the introduction, and what we should get safely through this law. The organisation of a system of vocational education and competence, so the organisation and implementation talks about the conditions of enrolment, so the continuation of education which was not always possible, so when there was an interruption of education, then the implementation of practical teaching, which is very good to stress that we raise the level of vocational education there, then the implementation of practical teaching. Conditions and obligations of institutions and participants, conditions that must be met by the employer, so that was the same before that speech. Then the participants are also spoken of in this law, so what is the status of the participants, the conditions for continuing education. The section on teachers also sets out the conditions that are prescribed who can be a teacher, what qualifications must have as well as other co-workers. Finally, it should be said that this bill finally answers a number of issues raised in the field of vocational education. So, schools, as we have heard before, professionally, so these technical, industrial and crafts are 3/4 of all secondary schools, or the management of these areas, have been resolved by the constitution of so, as proposed by the Professional Education Council, with autonomous powers, and 13 sectoral councils for each educational area. And these centers that already exist. So new centres, new technologies will also be established so that industrial modernisation can be monitored. I must say the same, though, that although we can say that we are harmonising this with the laws of the European Union, I must say that when foreigners come, potential investors in our business zones, so because part of the business zone that has a commercial character probably has no such questions. But business areas where we talk about production. I have to tell you that I've had cases of strangers coming to us asking first what kind of school we have in that place and asking them to go to school, asking them to go to school, asking them in the front row to get into school workshops to see what kind of teaching means they're now, so they're not just simulators, they're also the need for machines, which then gives her some additional guarantee that whoever's going to invest in and get the kind of professional work force he needs. And for the sake of all this, I will ultimately uphold this law in my first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23554	Thank you. Dear Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23555	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your honor of the Secretary of State with your associate, Madam Representative, gentlemen of the Parliament. At first I will say that I support, strongly support this draft law on vocational education for several reasons, but the first two I make most important. First, we've never had a law like this before that regulates this matter of vocational education. And the second thing that we have debated for a decade and more, and that is to coordinate our policy of vocational education with the European experience where we want to be, and I would say a lot of European programmes in Croatia, and I think that has succeeded. And this law that reads it accurately sees that it has respected it and that it regulates, in particular, Article 3. it reveals that it introduces a lot of new terms into this system. The law also raises the question, the key question of how many vocational schools are in line with the labour market. That's the basic thing, because it's exactly the perspective of a student who has such a school and I would say to all of us in a way because it's been a common observation that we have occupations that can't be applied in practice, in work. We also want to say that this is about hundreds of programs that are available in schools, in three-year, four-year programmes that have a total of 344. Also, this law affects the largest number of high school students, which is almost 126,000. We can't forget that. Also, almost 6700 teachers work in this area, and one problem we also have, and this is the lack of teacher training, or inadequate schools that need to be here, and I see that the matter has been well met by this law and that it creates now adequate conditions for the qualification of people who work with such students. This is very important to me and it is according to European experience and it modernises Croatian education in terms of vocational education. And I'd say, I'd use one word to modernize this whole system with this law, and I can see that it's a great credit to say the years of work, teamwork on this bill. When I say team, I don't mean the ministry itself, but also the external entities of the craft chamber, from others where it resulted in one of these quality approaches. Also, I don't want to repeat what my colleagues said, but in one sentence, I would like to underline it. The conditions for the establishment of the Law on Professional Education are laid down, it is necessary to develop qualifications based on sectoral competences with the mandatory inclusion of social partners. I think that picture, that situation was created with this bill so I believe that by the second reading maybe some other dimensions will improve. But this law will introduce one new dynamic, one new responsibility, one new space in vocational education. I just want to take a quick look at Article 3 here to see how many new entries it's making, which defines some new concepts, so I'm just going to read them. Some terms in this law mean vocational education, vocational training, vocational training, formal learning, informal learning, information learning, competences, key competences, professional curricula, professional qualification, level of qualification, credit point, standard of interest, module, competence profile of qualification. I don't have time to explain all these names, but I want these names to speak for themselves about the complexity and changes that have been made, which need to be made aware of in practice and give them the right dimension that will then come back to life in schools, in professional organisations and in general in the labour market. I would also like to commend some other solutions to this law, which is Article 14 which speaks to the Council for Professional Education, has 17 members and then sees this very dynamicity, the integration of all entities interested in the quality of vocational education. Because in this council, one member puts on the proposal of the Croatian Employers' Association. One member is the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, one member of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, two members of the business, two members of the union representatives, one on the proposal of the Ministry of Economy, etc. I just want to say how comprehensive a job it is, because that's exactly what's going to ensure the dynamic changes in the program when something needs to be perfected. That seems to me like we haven't had one before. And I'm going to say something else that seems to me to have respected both the European system and our needs are often discussed, which is Article 27, 28, which is the duties of the employer and the duties of the candidate of the programme, especially when students go to practice, to teaching. And it's clearly regulated now. It is clear what the employer has to do, what to monitor, what to evaluate, what obligations there is on the other hand the obligation of the consignee. Therefore, regular attendance of practical classes or exercises, as well as other compulsory educational forms, regular fulfilment of their teaching obligations, compliance with instructions, compliance with regulations, property keeping, etc. I'd say, what we say is a responsibility. That aspect of it on one side and the other. And just one more sentence and it's still worth it and there's a fee, and that's what the student gets for it, and that's clearly defined. I commend all of this one more time and I support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23556	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23557	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with you that this law must be passed, contributing to the quality of vocational education. When you mentioned the Committee on the Quality of Employees in this vocational education, I am interested, in fact, in the profession, so I am now asking a question, based on what will be the report of this committee in what form, or is it possible that the regulation will be made for that? Here's your colleague, Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23558	I'm sorry, Your Honor, but first you have to lift a plate to respond to a replica that doesn't matter. That's the way it Now here you are, you have the word, honourable representative Nevio Šteić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23559	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President, in the heat of the controversy, I just wanted to tell the lady that the question should be asked by the Secretary of State, I couldn't quite answer. But I think there's a question in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23560	Thank you. The secretary of state just called. On behalf of the Government, Honorable Želimir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23561	Thank you very much, Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank all the representatives who were on behalf of the board, whether on behalf of the clubs or individually debated this bill and thank you for all the compliments made. I want to make it very clear that what you mentioned, the Professional Education Agency, which was founded at the end of 2005, is now in a position to accept those jobs for which we founded it. And this is exactly the law you're talking about has been done so that the Agency for Professional Education has taken over most of the work and hired all the stakeholders you mentioned, so all those who are interested, and here I will stress in particular the chamber and Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, as well as the Croatian Association of Employers and trade unions. So when it was said here by representatives of Kunst who are head of the board that they are expected to discuss themselves on the Economic and Social Council, of course they will, before preparing another reading, surely we will discuss it with them, but I would like to say that they were involved in the creation of this law as interested parties and that they have actively involved it. So this debate, which will be on the Economic and Social Council, will most likely confirm this which they themselves participated in. Further let me say the same thing when you talk about equipment, when you talk about programs we said that through sectoral councils we would bring standards of interest to help the network of programs, then I have to tell you that these years we have taken special care of the equipment of our professional schools in part from the state budget, and in part from the World Bank loan. So for the third time we've been in such a contest, and here he is now finalizing himself, I hope that soon this equipment will enter our vocational schools for the third year. I must also say that this is what the founders of our schools do, that other ministries do, that certain economic operators do, so that the situation has changed significantly compared to the times before for the better. And finally, thank you very much for these recommendations to round this cycle and by passing the Art Education Act. I will promise you that, in cooperation with the agency, I will appoint a committee by the end of this calendar year and create all the conditions to start working immediately in the month of January so that during the following year we can count on it, spend time in procedure and possibly by the end of the year, we can pass this law and we fully agree with you that this is something that we should certainly do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23562	And an answer to the MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23563	And the answer to the MPs when it comes to quality teams, so it's just a school evaluation process, and at this point we have a project offered to all our schools to do it, but it's nowhere normal. This time, normized and very clearly, we say that in our vocational schools, by the structure that is proposed, we are asking that committees be drawn up, which will therefore follow the realisation of quality assurance all the time. So... will all of what is actually done, detect some weak points, bring measures, certain deadlines, with whom, when this is realised and thus contribute to the improvement of quality in order to have at the end of high school education better experts, and if they want to continue education in educational verticals better prepared for study either on professional or university studies to be more effective that the average is not as high as it has been so far and that certainly the higher percentage ends in the study that enrolls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23564	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23565	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction with the fact that the law on vocational education has entered the parliamentary procedure in the first place. Quality vocational education, especially personnel coming out of vocational education, is the product of one process that will allow the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia to develop. Therefore, without an educated, trained, professional and competent workforce, there is neither production as a fundamental objective nor development, nor involvement in modern world technical and technological flows, I would say nor guarantee conditions for a stable social society. However, vocational education has a number of specificities, which is primarily linked to the labour market, i.e. employers, and is therefore subject to certain dynamics in terms of variability and market adjustment. Due to old contact with practice, an important part of this is also an important part of vocational education, which in itself also has its own specificities. These previous two specificities also condition the education and competence of expert staff, which is not a standard professional study staff, i.e. education at the institutions of the pedagogical type. One of the specificities of vocational education, and that is exactly the kind of education that includes the largest number of people who have special conditions in terms of education, which are primarily persons with disabilities, are above all persons with special interests and are above all persons who want to continue to develop their professional form of education that they have completed until then. For the sake of these specificities, I expect that this law will allow for better regulation of the system of vocational education both in the area of definition and the rights of users' obligations, i.e. the starting point of such education. So simply in the area of defining the competence of the teaching staff. These links of school institutions with economic conditions which, after passing through that one whole system, all participants could find a job and ensure conditions for existence. Because I believe it's our main goal to train people to secure their own existence tomorrow, not to be dependent on some kind of social program of the state. Of course, such an ambitious law, and especially its realization in practice, is necessarily related to the conditions of teaching in schools themselves. First of all, with the teaching equipment that has already been apostrophe in previous discussions of colleagues, and on the committees themselves, something has been said about it. Also during the debate on committees, there are possible problems due to insufficient equipment here, now the secretary of state has said something more, so there are programs that will in principle solve it. In fact, today’s modern teaching programme in one technical school would certainly have to be supported in this school practical work, not related to the practice of the economic subject by equipment such as automation, robotics, CNC processing, pneumatics, electrohydraulics, mechatronics, and all of this is based on one information system in the first place in terms of specialized software that enables the management of such elements in the course, and today in practice, that is, in the factories where we expect our students to be able to work after completion. Such equipment is extremely important, both because of the degree of development of the technique that is said in steps of 7 miles, and because of what is stated and in this work that we have received as early material, which is the opening of negotiations with the European Union. Part of these needs will be resolved if, therefore, there are opportunities to resolve through connection with practice, i.e. through economic operators. The part will be able to get rid of here several times already mentioned certain business education centres, or technology centres, or centres of excellence, no matter what their name is. We basically know what this is about. If they exist in a given area, or if there is a need for their opening, if they are not already opened. Of course one, and I'd say the most important part is going back to school. And that's why I expect the parent ministry, and here I have the assurances of Mr. Secretary of State, not only will they leave this part to schools, but also to one system-programmed way of access, to allow schools to, in accordance with some proposals that will work both with the field, so to business entities, so to the ministry, etc. to enable them to be able to do the same. In the end, I can only confirm most of the debates so far, which is that this law is a good basis for achieving good and quality vocational education in the Republic of Croatia, so I will personally support it. Of course, in this work it is necessary to stress that there is another problem that is not mentioned here, that is the problem of national graduations and what is happening among students these days, so a certain dissatisfaction that vocational schools are equated with high schools and similar schools in terms of national proms. This is another problem that needs to be compensated in a certain way, or solved. So I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, to take care of that too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23566	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. My colleague Heffer said you mentioned State's graduation and I think there's a problem for a senior prom. In fact, if there's going to be an extra education, would there actually be a way to master the content for that national prom? It is said that election items will be able to be selected, but I also see one problem here, which is to set standards, i.e. who will refinance one such education when state cases are chosen, i.e. certain items. Because it could happen to be 1 to 5 students, a very small number of students. Who's going to finance it and how do they do it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23568	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative...... I beg you, replica and reply to the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Secretary of State will be given a word when he asks for it on behalf of the Government. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23569	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm going to try to be brief, since so far it's been said a lot and very positive about this law that's really very good quality. In short, it is a modern law that in a comprehensive way, although it has only 40 articles in a comprehensive way to address all issues, i.e. the most important issues in vocational education, especially bearing in mind the labour market. The papers adopted by this law and which have actually been dealt with for the first time in this specific way are extremely important from the introduction of the Professional Education Council, which in some ways attracts all those interested in vocational education such as the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, employers and all others. So, it drags them into the very system of education in a way that they are sort of supervisors and quality, especially through sectoral councils and better quality education. And I would say that there will really be one contribution to quality, and it will really mean one quality basis for what we all want, which is stronger economic development and above all growth in this area of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Because this is a prerequisite for this growth. What makes this law extremely good is that it corresponds exactly to the needs of the labour market. And so here I think I can join all those who have brought all the praises so far, not to mention the particulars that the law defines. It is particularly important to point out, of course, that the law will, in fact, improve standards and professions through this sectoral council and through the Quality Commission. And that they're actually going to define themselves. They are now in such a state that they are not even defined. So this law will define them. I am pleased that you have announced that we will finally start making the Law on Art Education, we have already discussed this several times with you personally, Mr Secretary of State and the Committee on Science, Education and Culture, because we believe that by adopting this law we will actually round up the entire legislation regarding education in the Republic of Croatia and in some way even the standards in this area. Here, as president of the Croatian Society of Music and Dance... I am absolutely supportive and absolutely certain that we will participate, I hope as one of the participants and in drawing up this proposal for a programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We give you full support to this, and I am sure that it will be as high-quality as this law and therefore all the praises and the Professional Education Agency which has made its great contribution to the Ministry and to all those who participated in making such a truly comprehensive and quality bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23570	Thank you. Dear representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23571	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, State Secretary or State Secretary with his associates. And I'm glad to see the bill here on our benches. However, I will be very brief, and I will try to draw attention to students who are located in rehabilitation centres, mainly in the process of professional rehabilitation, in professional occupations. Unfortunately, vocational education is not in line with the labour market so that they are often educated for non-existent occupations. Let's say, as they are now blind, they're still blind to the telephones because we know where the technology went without saying about the cobblers and everything else. You should take care of what happens to finished students. In Croatia, 66% of people with disabilities graduated from vocational school and 78% are kept on unemployment records for more than a year. Unfortunately, this does not mean that these 22% have been employed but have mostly ended up in a welfare system or receiving a personal disability. I believe that the ministry should be networked in a certain way but there is a overlap between not two but three ministries, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Economy because students are said to be located in rehabilitation centres, two, the Croatian Employment Service and the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund to create preconditions for the creation of students with developmental difficulties. In one study of the Croatian Employment Institute and the Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation 74% of employers have no experience in the employment of people with disabilities and therefore the social dialogue that was so often mentioned here needs to be developed. Also, I'm warning you that when it comes to rehabilitation centres where, excuse the secretary of state, please, this is very important. So, when it comes to it. Excuse me, colleague Matušić, I believe you can do this later. So, when it comes to rehabilitation centres where students with developmental difficulties are educated, there are overlapping powers between two and three ministries, I have already said. However, I also warn that often the level of knowledge of students with developmental difficulties is questionable, not because of their disability, but because of access to students with developmental difficulties. Students in this case live, go to school and practice, all in the same place. Like the Dubrava Center. So the kids live there, and they feed, so they're on boarding school and they go to practice. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State to respect all of this for reasons to come up with as high-quality legislation as possible, which will cover everything and give equal opportunities during education and during employment as appropriate to all categories of students, including those who are educated in auxiliary professions, and these are children with intellectual difficulties. I think it would be good for them to get involved, given that their education seems to be going on for about two or three years, and that in some way the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund should also be involved so as not to become social cases again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23572	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23573	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I think it's extremely important to repeat something that we rarely mentioned in the debates today, which is that the adoption of this law actually has three quarters in its district, exactly 75%, as the secretary of state said to all high school students because only 25% of them go to high school. These figures clearly give rise to the importance of the adoption of this law. I therefore express my satisfaction because it seems to me that the presentations of all MPs have seen a unity that will ultimately seem to support the adoption of this law in this form. As I recall, one of the past years has been declared a year of vocational education by giving priority to this topic and in the light of Croatia's accession to the European Union. The initiative was symbolically supported by the government by giving ex post funding to projects and improving and promoting vocational education. As we have already heard from the Secretary of State, the Professional Education Strategy has been drawn up and today we are harmonising it with the legal acquis of the European Union, according to which Article 2 speaks about the possibility of training of persons from the European Union. And while we are already on the subject of the European Union's gains and global achievements, we are constantly talking about Finland, Ireland, Estonia, South Korea as economic wonders. However, their rapid economic growth did not occur miraculously. I think they realized that they had to put the emphasis on learning and education. The International Conference in Zagreb on Professional Education made a clear appeal to raise vocational education in Croatia to a higher level to monitor the development of technology and markets. And it seems to me that professional education has constantly recorded extremely dynamic activity since the opening of negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. I point out the importance and importance of opening sixteen centres of new technologies as centres of excellence in the Republic of Croatia and I congratulate you on that. And what I'm clearly saying here is that this is not one of the reasons because maybe one of the main reasons I'm going to support this complex draft law on vocational education. Honorable MPs and MPs. You'll agree with me when I say that vocational education is a prerequisite for competitiveness. And therefore, if we want to be competitive under the conditions of accelerated globalisation, vocational education, knowledge and research, there is absolutely no alternative. I will also comment on a foreign investor in Dalmatia who complained to me that there are no workers with the jobs they need to work, so he also concluded that it is easier to get investment in the financial insurance sector in Croatia than for manufacturing green field investments for which he lacks professional workers. It is also important to say that the reform of vocational education comes from below the profession and actually seems to me that it is not imposed as it may seem in our discussions for other segments of education. And finally, I would just like to say a few comments that, on the trail of my thesis in the previous debate, that the way towards Croatia as a society of knowledge is extremely difficult and lasting. Namely, because of a small number of students in individual programs, there are no textbooks for certain professional courses. Also, not using textbooks in the teaching process, especially in secondary schools, has been increasingly widespread lately, and it seems to me that this would not be worrying if more modern multimedia sources of knowledge were used instead of textbooks. However, the textbooks in practice seem most often to replace me with notes from teacher lectures, which is totally unacceptable from the perspective of modern teaching and returns to the technology of the educational process of the long-dominated untrusted sources of knowledge. I think that this phenomenon and its consequences need to be explored and overcome in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23574	Thank you. That's how we ended this debate. And on behalf of the Government, Minister of State Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23575	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I'm sorry, Vice President. So, thank you all for taking part in this debate, giving a lot of useful proposals, and I promise that we will take a phonogram from this debate tomorrow and a team that has worked so far to prepare the bill, so this commission has been continuing since Monday to do everything that has been said here with the rest of us to prepare the Final Proposal for the Law on Professional Education, and already at the beginning of the next session, from 15 January to 15 January, we will send you the final proposal. It will come before you again I hope an even better final proposal for a law on vocational education. Let me briefly just answer what you said at the last minute, something small in the replicas of Mr. Heffer's presentation. So, when it comes to national prom, I'm not surprised that you've asked such a question because the question shows that you're not fully informed about how national prom is going to be conducted, just as your students haven't been fully informed, so they've been asking a lot of questions. Make sure you make sure I bring you the brochures and meet the state's prom so you can read them in person, and you'll see how everything is set up, but here's the brief information. So by adopting the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools in Article 82, we have said that secondary education ends. I'll focus now on the students of vocational schools. The students of vocational schools had their education unlike the old days when they graduated fourth grade, then they joined the final exam. The final exam consisted of the production and defence of the final work for which they received one grade, consisted of written and oral in Croatian and consisted of examinations from professional theoretical content. One final exam that was to be the crown of their education, so they could go to the labour market, they got their testimony from school, and they wanted to continue their education in the educational verticals, passed the entrance exams at professional studies, at universities as it was already going. Now with this legal solution by introducing a state degree, their ending looks like this. So all those students who are in four-year vocational schools finish their fourth grade are going to their exams, and it consists only of making and defending final work. That's how they get their finality and can go to the labour market. The question is, what was harder? What before or this now, so thank God this now. For those students who want to continue education in the educational vertical, when they make and defend their final work if they want to run for any study programme, they report a state graduation exam at one of the two levels. So, on a basic or a higher level. What's he gonna report? What colleges want to enroll or study programs that want to enroll are looking for. However, unlike the old days when they had to prepare themselves for university entrance exams, so go either to the Open School and stay there for two weeks, pay for the service, naturally pass certain programs to get better prepared, yet no one guaranteed that 100% will succeed. But that effort had to be made. Another way could have been to prepare on its own, so work hard at home, someone would help them. Third, they might be paying someone for instructions. So it was pretty hard. Now, exactly what you're asking, so now we're offering to do it in our schools. So, first of all, not to pay, secondly to hand them that part of the program, their teachers who taught them and who know best what they knew in the first, second grade, with which to deal better, thus making it weaker and less, they are doing operational programs with them that they will spend during their third and fourth classes until the time when they will take the state prom. So now they're being provided at school, they don't have to pay, and they're totally ready. Thirdly, when they pass state graduation exams eventually if a student program asks for an individual electoral item, most of them according to current indicators based on an analysis of one request for statements, a good part of the study programmes says we will use the results of the state's graduation in accepting students to individual studies. Of course, some will carry out certain tests, so let's say at art academys they have to check out the gift and it can't be checked by the state's graduation. In dentistry, he'll check out the tiny motorbike for what's really important, and the state's graduation won't check it out, neither can he. So now the students of our four - year vocational schools are in a much more favourable position than they used to be. So We sent them the brochures of which I speak, which I will deliver to you. We held 522 presentations from the beginning of this school year in all our high school students in the third grade. After that, we started talking with our directors and teachers in the regions, and it is currently under way, and from spring there will be another brochure that will in fact in some way print out this data that we have received so far, if there are any small adjustments somewhere that this information goes to our students. And what is important to emphasize, this school year, so in April of the month is the starting of a trial state graduation, and the first national graduation is only 2010. So we want to do all the preparations to know what it all looks like, to set everything up so there are no misunderstandings at that point. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament here after this explanation I would no longer add anything to you. Once again, I would just like to thank everyone who participated in the debate and I hope to see you from the beginning of the new session in January. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23576	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23577	Eight, Proposed Law on Professional Education, First Reading, P.Z. No. 208. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law on vocational education is hereby adopted; 2. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get involved and vote on this proposal for a conclusion. The result? The proposal was reached by a majority vote with 98 votes in favour and 6 abstentions, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23578	We're moving to the third item of the agenda. This is - Proposal for a law on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 212 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Radovan Fuchs, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23579	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. You have before you the law in first reading, or the proposal for a law on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. This law is important due to the first row of the extension and closure of Chapter III. in negotiations with the European Union, which is a chapter relating to the right of establishment and the free provision of services. Namely, the essence of this bill is to create a legal framework and administrative infrastructure for the recognition of professional qualifications in the so-called so-called ". regulated professions involving medical professions, all professions relating to the provision of health services. So nurses, medical technicians, midwives, then veterinarians, dentists, pharmacists and architects. In principle, it does not apply to other professions and does not apply to seamen regulated by another special law. In the process of joining the European Union, we must take over certain legal gains of the European Union, which is regulated by Directive 36 of 2005 in the event of the recognition of professional qualifications. So far, we have recognised qualifications in the Republic of Croatia based on the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications, which only formally recognised the acquired diploma. In principle, the recognition of someone’s education was about the process of recognising identity and identity, which in principle meant that if you had completed a medical college outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia it meant that we would recognise such a diploma for the purpose of continuing education, while to carry out medical activities it was necessary to take a whole series of other steps in which many and professional associations, but other ministries could conduct some procedures separately with a sometimes questionable outcome. In this case, the law will also deal with the recognition in one procedure of these professional qualifications to those involved in regulated professions. Therefore, there is a way, procedure and place of application for recognition of such a qualification of foreign nationals, i.e. nationals of Member States of the European Union. And one includes someone who wants to temporarily or permanently carry out some of the activities in these professions must allow the recognition of his qualifications for the purpose of carrying out such activities within the borders of our country. It should also be pointed out that this law will be relied upon by a whole series of other legal and sublegal acts of other ministries, primarily the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, since architects are also one of the regulated professions. The law also respected the comments and opinions we received from the European Commission, and we are aware that in nomotechnical terms, there was simply not enough time in the discussions with certain administrative structures of the European Commission to convince them that some of our expressions are exactly what they are looking for and that is why we have suggested that the law goes into two readings so that until the next session of the Parliament we could fix the text law to be in accordance with our legal tradition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23580	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Dear Peter Selem, chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23581	Mr. President, I'll do it very briefly. On December 10th, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the proposal for a Law on the Recognition of Foreign Professional Qualifications. He considered it clear as a home working body, and the opening statement was submitted by a representative of the applicant. So far, in Croatia, the recognition of educational, professional qualifications is subject to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications, which in fact only formally confirms the value of foreign educational qualifications, i.e. foreign perfect formal education until the overall professional training, professional training and training following the completion of formal education as well as possible professional experience are not taken into account. So the question was to be resolved by a special law. When it comes to the so-called. the regulated profession is passed by law in accordance with legislation in the countries of the European Union in the Republic of Croatia. The regulated profession shall be defined as professional activities or groups of professional activities where access is conditional upon the possession of certain professional qualifications. Regulated professions also have professional activity or a group of professional activities dealing with members of professional organisations with professional titles. Without discussion, the committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to accept the proposal for a law on the recognition of foreign and professional qualifications. References and proposals will be made to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23582	Thank you. And I'm opening a debate. The clubs are up first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23583	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, Madam Representatives, and gentlemen of the Parliament, here for the third time today is an educational problem. I think we're also in agreement with her, as highly in agreement with the previous law and with this one that's in the proposal. This is the first reading, though. There may be something a little bit more to fix in this normative part, but this second one is generally acceptable. Not only are we closing Chapter 3. This is one big compliance with the European acquis that is being transposed into Croatian legislation and now this is the operational part, as far as I think it refers to it as Article 3 says a lot of new terms that need to be regained, to be put into office. What has already been mentioned in Croatia is in function of law, recognition of challenging educational qualifications but I would dare say it is more relevant to our citizens who have completed studies abroad and they are also entering practically life and work. But this law paves the way for what it says to the transition or mobility of the workforce and it will open exactly the process of what exists in the European Union and, by entering the European Union, this law will also apply. He is waiting for us at the moment when we enter the European Union so that professional qualifications and what you say is lifelong learning that has enriched your competences on the labour market will be all the same and what is officially called the European Economic Area in which then the Republic of Croatia will be so that these citizens who are part of those countries that make up European economic space will simply be able to verify their professional competence, their diploma for what they want it to be. This is why I, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, want to make it clear that we support this proposal and that we will vote in favour. He's going to another reading. That is why there is room for all proposals that can be improved. I may just want to give a few interpretations here for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the purpose of providing services on a temporary and occasional basis. And it needs to be regained because someone wants to temporarily want to come to Croatia and work for three years, he wants to work fully on the qualifications he has acquired and the experience he has at that time. And what we've been saying about vocational education is that very similarity, that equivalent before. Therefore, this law provides for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the purpose of providing services on a temporary and occasional basis within the meaning of Directive 2005/36 of the European Community, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005. What I want to say is, let's see how much a very defined legislative proposal is: it regulates, it prescribes procedural provisions on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the purpose of business creation in the Republic of Croatia and that is very precise. The procedure for the initiation of the recognition procedure, i.e. at the request of the applicant, of the tasks of the authorities responsible for the recognition procedure, of the documentation attached to the application for recognition shall mean evidence. The possibility of verifying the authenticity of the evidence to be applied to the application for recognition of that change in the origin of the evidence which is very important in order to avoid abuse. Decision on recognition, time limits in the recognition procedure, prior opinion of the competent professional organisation or other competent authority or organisation in the event of the procedure being carried out by the competent ministry, cases where the competent authority adopts a provisional decision on the recognition of foreign and professional qualifications, the right to elect candidates between two of the authorised measures to be taken in order to finally decide on its application for recognition, the choice between the adjustment period or the verification of the characterisation of the profession, cases where the applicant does not have the right to choose between one of the additional measures laid down in that case by the competent authority in the interim solution, the legal medicinal products in the process of recognising the foreign professional qualification, the payment of the fee in the process of recognition, the manner of determining and the payment of the costs of the recognition procedure. I read this part on purpose because it seems to me to be how complex matter and clear matter, the responsible matter. So we also need to adapt to work very professionally in this way, and that is what we are constantly talking about joining the European Union, and this implies this whole set of circumstances that should be really conscious and put into its legal course. I don't want to owe the ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I would just like to say one more thing about Article 3 and that is the following: what new terms we are introducing into our legal system and we need to learn from them. I dare say that it is very difficult for one person to understand and understand them all, the citizens or the citizens of a third country. Regulated profession, professional titles, professional qualification, professional training and training, professional experience, proof of formal training, adjustment period, training check. The person carrying out the independent activity, the competent authority. So the matter is complex. Until the second reading, there may be some extras. We support and will vote for the adoption of this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23584	Thank you. And distinguished representative Daniel Mondekar on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23585	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, The Social Democratic Party of Croatia supports the Law on the Recognition of Foreign, Professional Qualifications, as it regulates a recognition business that has so far been implemented in a more complicated procedure. First through the recognition of the educational qualification under the existing law, and then through professional organisations or competent authorities there should be an authorisation to carry out a particular regulated profession. The law doesn't settle things for some professions. What is stated is it goes according to automation or separate acts. Recognitions shall be arranged for those persons who wish to perform a regulated profession. Others are subject to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications. The novelty is certainly done, that the process of recognition is being considered in a united procedure, i.e. the procedure and the law, we can say that one part of Croatia is a step forward in the European educational space at the end of the day, as well as a preparation for the single labour market that awaits us with membership in the European Union. However, something needs to be said briefly about education in Croatia and through the prism of recognition because looking through history from, reading articles on education over the past 100 years, you from 1905 to today through very interesting discussions you can see that in some segments Croatian education is still too rigid, inflexible, that from the earliest days, you would not believe, recognise the identity of the time of Austro-Hungarian, but that the big problem was in what could not be recognized and of course it continued further through the Kingdom, through the SFRY and to this day where we really had to recognize the dactylographer or to identify the phone player and that a long time ago you could not recognize the astrophysicist. It's also a big problem, and when we talk about qualifications, then I'm going to talk about higher education and further to lifelong learning, that we've had a situation where a person ends up at a university in Oxford studying modern history. There is no such study in Croatia. There is no five-year study of modern history in Croatia, there is only now a three-year PhD. While such a study at Oxford University has existed for many years. And then the question arises what can this person in the Republic of Croatia do. And for a long time she waited for certain answers, and finally the last one I imposed was to enroll a doctoral study in Croatia from modern history, so that in this way at least the whole story ended especially because, given that Oxford is perhaps tragic, Oxford is still in the first 10 best universities of the world and Europe, while unfortunately Croatia is not present at any university in the first 100, first 500 and first thousand universities of Europe and the world. The example from Europe and the practice from Europe where there is this European area of education in which life-long learning policy is applied and an integrated lifelong learning action plan, i.e. education shows that there are problems there too, but also shows examples of how some problems in practice went to change to make it easier to end-to-end and system of recognition. First of all, education that is focused on modularity, educational pathways and learning outcomes. That's clear. Monitoring, regular monitoring of workloads, quality monitoring and, of course, at the administrative level, a whole series of new documents were created, of which it is certainly the most important supplemental document, i.e. a diploma supplement to a diploma, where it was then simply through one document, if the working burden of quality and learning outcomes were regularly monitored, then you can see through a document of what a certain person was learning, in which time period it was learning and what knowledge and skills it acquired and, of course, it was the main and best way to level something and in the Republic of Croatia you can see what that person can do in the Republic of Croatia, for which it is actually competent and to do. The Republic of Croatia itself has slowly had certain things already, although we still do not have modular education, we are starting with learning outcomes, education paths have begun to be discussed and through this can be broken down by this rigidity in education, and the cruelty in the education of a colleague and colleagues again from Austria to this day is within our education system where in the 20th century early and mid- and today there have been major problems within one institution, although this is now unrelated to matter, that even one section within one institution recognises something from another division. That we had problems between two universities and one university and that we had problems with the same colleges at different universities in Croatia that students continue to study. They have to keep going, they can, but there were problems. And, of course, it's very important that we have the administrative capacity to change things like that, because really someone should tell the Employment Service that in the register of professions that they still have to bring in something more, because the average of Europe is already if I'm not cheating on over 3,000, we have a lot less professions, that we really don't have to be dactylographers and telephonists and that we have astrophysicists and historians of modern history. This should be done as counterpart Šetić said first for students and people who will come from Europe here, not only work, they may want to work here and be further educated and with this new qualification may go somewhere further into Europe. Perhaps because of the mobility system whether horizontal, whether vertical, whether with the financial support of the European Union we will have their students here, but also ours who will go semester after semester maybe to another country and eventually return to Croatia. That is why we need a quality system and quality administrative capacity to be able to recognise in time that the whole problem can be solved at administrative level so that these people can start working. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23586	Thank you. Does a government official want to take the final word? Yeah. Dear Radovan Fuks, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23587	Mr. Vice President, I thank you for your support in the adoption of this bill. He will definitely be better at the second reading, so I also thank you for the discussion of the honourable representative Mondekara, he definitely said what is our legacy and why the adoption of this law tends in terms of change of course for the better. From personal experience I can say that it was necessary and necessary, I am my nostrification doctorate from a tiny university in... Waited for two years, and therefore this law is about to resolve all these dilemmas. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23588	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23589	Ninth, Proposal for a Law on the Recognition of Foreign and Professional Qualifications, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 212. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law on the recognition of foreign and professional qualifications is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law.". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most of the vote with 104 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23590	We move to the fourth item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 169 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Lawmaking, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Davor Mrduljas, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23591	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the Final Proposal for a Law on Geodetic Activity, on 3 October at the 6th session of the Parliament unanimously adopted this law in the first reading and sent its proposals and observations to this law. In fact, there were no larger proposals and objections to the law itself, and this law actually adds to the next item of the agenda, the Act on Architecture and Engineering, is related to the arrangement of activities related to spatial planning and construction. When it comes to geodetic activity, then we went to a special law because the geodetics are part of a law on the conduct of certain works under the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, and in the other part, in the larger part, along with their parent material law, the Law on State Measurement and the Catastrophe of Real estate. Therefore, this law regulates the way in which geodetic activity is carried out. It is in line with the European Union guidelines on the work of foreign engineers in geodesy in the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Professional Qualifications. The point that was right before us and with which this law is largely harmonised. And also this law establishes a special geodetic chamber of authorised geodesy engineers as part of the entire reform of the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers. Here's what would be in the shortest lines of this law. And by doing so, let us get a framework for the full implementation of geodetic activity in the Republic and we open and free the labour market, the future of course the day of Croatia's accession to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23592	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Jerko Roshin, Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23593	Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. At the 11th session held on 10 December 2008, the Final Proposal of the Law on the exercise of geodetic activity was discussed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in an act of 27 November 2008. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as the home working body. Introductory representatives pointed out that the proposed law regulates the carrying out of expert geodetic work by certain regulations governing the state measurement and the real estate cadastre, spatial planning and construction, commissioning and nature protection. The proposed law provides for professional geodetics, chamber association, strict responsibility of authorised geodesy engineer, obligations and means of passing an expert examination, compulsory liability insurance, and supervision of the implementation of this law and regulations adopted under this law. The differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft of the law have been highlighted in relation to the draft bill's solution, as well as the particularly prominent changes to the provisions defining the conditions that foreign persons must fulfil in order to be able to carry out expert geodetic work in the Republic of Croatia. It was concluded that, unlike the applicable regulation proposed by law, overall geodetic activity is regulated in one place. The debate on the Committee supports the adoption of this law, and highlights its importance for the successful implementation of rules whose changes are in preparation, which govern the determination of maritime goods and of agricultural land. In the context of the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, which is in the legislative procedure, the importance of taking care of cadastres is highlighted, by updating the data based on the real situation established. Further clarifications were requested from the applicant on the planned dynamics of the measure of agricultural land, and possible forms of support for the implementation of that law relating to the payment of compensation for the change in the purpose of agricultural land according to the real state. As regards the categories of land defined by the proposed Agricultural Land Act, in particular P1 and P2 farmland which will be regulated by the Ministry of Agriculture, it is discussed about the categories of agricultural land data contained in the cadastre. After the debate was held, the Committee voted unanimously 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Geodetic Activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23594	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And we're going to a club debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Jerko Roshin. There you go. A walk won't hurt you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm very active, you see. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club on the final proposal of the Law on Geodetic Activity. So in order to take care of all the cadastar and land books and to have a necessary review of the real situation in space, especially agricultural areas, the geodetics of the following years will not be at all boring. Especially if he had in mind that we can only "clean and orderly" where we belong and why this law has an E mark. Because of this, the law on the conduct of geodetic activity has a very great meaning, and the HDZ Club is pleased to praise this Final Bill that has a good framework within which geodetic activity will be carried out in order to achieve the expected objectives. This Final Proposal of the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity is indeed one of those welcome exceptions in parliamentary practice, because even in the first reading there was no objection to the proposed text of the law. In the discussion of the Committee on Spatial Planning, the remarks were purely nomotechnical in nature. In the focus of the interest of this law, there was a desire to regulate the entire geodetic activity in one place only, so that one law regulates the implementation of professional geodetic work by certain regulations governing the state measurement and the real estate cadastre, spatial planning and construction, the commissioning and nature protection. A significant newspaper is the professional association of authorised geodesy engineers in an independent chamber, as well as the regulation of the issue of performing expert geodetic activities of foreign natural and legal persons established outside the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the role of the State Geodetic Authority is defined in detail from granting consent to carry out expert geodetic activities to monitor and monitor the work of the chamber in performing the tasks given to the chambers as public authority. Compared to the first reading of the law, just transferring the work of power from the State Geodetic Administration to the chamber is a logical change. By adopting this law, it is important from the point of view of the preparation of certain other rules, whose changes are in preparation, such as the issue of determining maritime goods and the commercialisation of agricultural land. Of course, better legal conditions for the exercise of geodetic activity should first be felt with the application of the Agricultural Land Act, by engaging in the necessary catastrophe, by updating the data identified by the real situation on the ground. By voting for this Final Proposal of the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity, the HDZ Representatives' Club will confirm its well-determinedness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23596	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23597	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will support the adoption of this law, which, for the first time in a separate regulation and in a unique way, regulates the conduct of geodetic activity in Croatia, especially since we have not seen negative or critical reactions of the interested professional and other public in this procedure. So far, the area has been covered by the Law on State Change and the Catastrophe of Real estate and the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. However, those rules did not regulate the overall geodetic activity, and there was a lack of understanding and inequality in the performance of these tasks. Of course, Croatia's accession procedure also requires Croatia to comply with certain European legislation directives ensuring, among other things, the freedom to carry out geodetic activity on the common market. Following this law, authorised geodesy engineers receive their own separate independent chamber that will certainly facilitate their future work. In the context of this law, it is certainly necessary to highlight the great importance of geodetic activity for both citizens individually and generally for the overall state development. Only harmonised data from catasters and land books with a real situation on the ground guarantee citizens security in the legal traffic of real estate and provide local self-government and state as a whole with conditions for quality space management. We must admit that there are significant problems in carrying out this activity as well as problems that this law will not solve either. For example, almost total geodetic production is left to us in the private sector, which is not exactly the case everywhere in the world. This resulted in the creation of strong private companies as well as the simultaneous departure of experts from the state service. The greatest reason for this is more than modest public service wages. This fact causes negative selection of public service personnel and, of course, the problem of the functioning of the public geodetic service. Then, the Croatian Geodetic Institute as an institution created in 2001, with one of the main objectives of quality control of geodetic products, the system does not use optimally. For example, keep it out of the control of certain products such as cadastrian measurements, so it does not develop with the dynamics needed by such an institution to meet the growing requirements of the profession as well as society as a whole. Finally, the teaching programme of the Geodetic Faculty should be changed in line with the technological changes in the world and with the concept and meaning of spatial information in society. In solving these and other problems, geodetic activity plays a key role and responsibility for the State Geodetic Authority. The fact is that Croatia has since 2003 implemented the National Programme for Land Books and Catastra with a shortened name, a country which is already able to process faster and simpler, register real estate and rights over them, spotlessly obtain information from catasters and land books, and possible verification of digitised data on the Internet. The plan was to coordinate through a 15-year period using digital ortho photo maps, lectorizing catastrian plans and other advanced processes with data from land-book and cadastre systems and guarantee that they match the real state. We believe that the rapid progress in the geodetic profession of recent years and the tendency of European funds to finance actions in the field of catastra and land books is sufficient as a basis for the correction of the length of this period and that citizens, businesses and local communities will not need to wait 2018 to realise this objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23598	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. We have one reported. Dear Representative Angelko Mihalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23599	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, I'll be brief in my delivery and my debate. The adoption of the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates in synergy with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction has begun to reform the existing Croatian system of spatial planning and construction, and in the section relating to geodetic activity it has gained its clear meaning. However, those rules do not cover a whole geodetic activity which creates inequality in the conduct of geodetic activities. Therefore, although in the initial transition phase from which the Republic of Croatia came out, the legislative framework was appropriate, it was considered necessary to amend it in order to bring the systems of the Member States of the European Union further closer. This reform should be completed at the legislative level by adopting the proposed Law on the conduct of geodetic activity which, in synergy with the parallel proposed Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction, will coordinate the implementation of all works in spatial planning and construction. The provisions of those laws for the pursuit of geodetic activity, spatial planning and construction by domestic geodetics have been set up by the Member States of the European Union. However, the performance of the same in the part relating to the performance of these tasks in the Republic of Croatia by entities from the Member States of the European Union is not in line with the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and the European Community's Internal Market Services Directive. Also, the way these issues are being regulated today does not respect the Croatian qualification framework adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which correspondence the European qualification framework adopted at the end of 2007 and which is currently in the process of developing and creating documents for their implementation. Following the pre-exposed law, the conduct of geodetic activity should determine whether geodetic activities exist and regulate the performance of expert geodetic tasks by certain regulations governing the state measurement and the real estate cadastres, spatial planning and the construction of co-operation and the protection of nature. The main issues covered by the proposed law are the definition of professional geodetics, the performance of expert geodetics, the association in the chamber, the responsibilities and the expert exam, the mandatory liability insurance, the supervision of implementation. Thus, the issue of carrying out the overall geodetic activity will be determined by one law which will greatly facilitate the understanding of the rights and obligations in the pursuit of these activities. At the time of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union without the adoption of new regulations or amendments and the addition of existing ones, the freedom to conduct geodetic activities on the common European market will be ensured. I think this law came at the right time and on time. I'll support that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23600	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Davor Mrduljas, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23601	Thank you very much. Here, just a little bit. Thank you for the discussion. And I would immediately plead because only the Legislative Committee has given its amendments which are of nomotechnical nature and are in line with the Croatian legal system we accept all amendments of the Committee on Law to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23602	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We're moving to agenda five.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23603	10th, Final proposal of the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity, second reading, P.Z. No. 169. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted these amendments. In accordance with Rule 169 of the Rules of Procedure, they become an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority vote with 102 votes for, 3 abstentions, nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23604	This is: - Final bill on architectural and engineering affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 167 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Mario Habek and representative Goran Heffer. Does the applicant, the applicant's representative, wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Davor Mrduljas, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23605	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the Final Proposal for a law on architectural and engineering affairs and activities in business planning and construction which was also adopted in this House in the first reading of October 3rd with the fact that the law is supported and that certain comments and proposals have been sent to it in the debate. All these remarks and proposals have been processed and largely incorporated into the text of this law. In addition, legal, legal and technical additions of the text have been carried out, particularly through the addition of transitional and other provisions, by a clearer definition of the concepts and by a certain change in the system of presentation of this law, namely its structure, by the fact that matter has not changed, making it more transparent and clearer for reading and also for implementation. This law is also in line with the proposal for a law on the recognition of foreign, professional qualifications. A colleague mentioned the architectural profession earlier when he was exhibiting from the Ministry of Science on the Law of Recognition, since this law is governed by professions, which are construction engineers, architects, engineers of engineering and electrical engineering. These are the basic holders and projectors of those 4 types of projects from the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, or the part relating to construction and which form the main project for a building permit. It is also an expanded circle of people who, as professional associates, can draw up spatial plans or spatial planning documents because it is still an interdisciplinary profession and work, which was the case in the first reading. When it comes to performers, you know that we have arranged the licensing already through the first reading and that we have made it easier and arranged much better these conditions which will increase the number of companies that will be able to get the license, and also under certain conditions now in this, for this second reading and cooperatives will allow you to obtain this license. The role of the Croatian chamber of these new old chambers is emphasized, as you know, by establishing this 4 chamber which has so far been the profession that has been in one chamber of Croatian architects and engineers in construction that is being reorganized by this law or classes become legal followers and new chambers are being established and we believe that this will also achieve greater efficiency of work. Chambers also receive certain greater public powers than they have had so far in the process of recognising foreign professional qualifications where the profession will decide on the profession as well as in accordance with the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Qualifications. Otherwise, let us briefly repeat the Law on the arrangement and performance of the professional affairs of spatial planning, design operations, professional supervision, organisational form of doing business, then on the activity of construction, project management, task of profession. I said association in the chamber, compulsory insurance and liability, supervision of law enforcement means supervision of the law enforcement itself or administrative control of law enforcement in the part where chambers will have this law a certain public authority will exercise the Ministry and in that sense be able to comply with the Law on the System of State Administration and certain criminal provisions or infringements in respect of infringements of the provisions of this law are also laid down. With this law and I hope that, as in the first reading, you will accept it in the vast majority de facto, we are completing the initial reform of legislation in the area of spatial planning and construction, which started in October by way of a degree, in 2007 by the law on spatial planning and construction. Then this year we proposed, that is, this House of the High has adopted and passed the Construction Products Act, and now this is the third law in this package, which is fully governed by this area. So we have administrative procedures through the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, technical regulations and things like that. Construction products have been carried out as one specificity that requires a particular work and special knowledge and now this law that regulates professional relations, and we have actually fully agreed with the European systems that regulate these issues. Of course, there will be continued and continued work on certain technical regulations "Euro Code" and... as the European Union Directives are to be amended, but Croatia is fully prepared in this part to access the negotiation and entry into the European Union as regards this part of the legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23606	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the esteemed representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23607	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, the ministries, colleagues and colleagues once more. At the 11th session held on 10 December 2008, the Final Proposal for a Law on Architecture and Engineering and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 27 November 2008. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed act, the proposed law as the home working body. In its opening statement, the Proposer's representative pointed out that the proposed legal issue of architectural and engineering affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction is governed by one law, unlike the applicable regulation, which covers this issue by the provisions of three laws. In light of the basic issues that are being regulated by this law, the differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law have been highlighted in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law. In particular, a clearer definition of certain concepts is highlighted, the regulation of issues related to foreign entities in the private chapter of the law, the harmonisation of this law with the Proposal for a Law on the Recognition of Foreign Professional Qualifications, the enabling of cooperatives registered for the construction of consent to the launch of such an activity, and a clearer regulation of the activities of the construction project management. Significant from the point of view of ensuring multidisciplinary and quality, the required obligation to ensure different professions in the process of drawing up spatial plans is highlighted. In addition, biotechnical, forestry and agronomic professions and landscape architects are involved as possible associates in the development of spatial planning documents. It is pointed out that the basis of the provision of the proposed law to the Ministry of the Chamber, i.e. the person performing the business or activity governed by this law, requires the resolution to remove the illegality established in the exercise of supervision. New violations have also been prescribed. The discussion on the committee supports the adoption of this law, which ends at the legislative level in the reform of the Croatian system of spatial planning and construction, which began with the adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction in 2007. As regards the committee, observations were received on the proposed law, the position was supported on the need to increase the number of members of the Management Board from four members plus the President of the Chamber to eight members plus the President of the Chamber. The Management Board of the Chamber shall be the executive body of the chamber running the business, concerned about the implementation of the chamber's work programme and decisions made, and would ensure regional representation in the Management Board of the Chamber by means of a proposed increase in the number of members. In accordance with Article 60 of which the tasks of the engineering profession in the performance of the design and control of the projects are defined, the members of the committee have proposed an amendment to the second subparagraph of paragraph 1. It is pointed to the need to supplement the expressions of that sub-paragraph in accordance with the tasks carried out by the engineering profession. After the discussion, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction. Along with the following amendments, I don't know if I need to read the amendments Considering that they were delivered. [[Intruder: No.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23608	I thank you, and I ask you to stay right away, because I am opening a debate. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorary Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23609	Thank you very much. Today's my day. On the occasion of the first reading, I expressed satisfaction with the fact that its preparation marked the good co-operation of the promoters with professional institutions and individuals, representatives of trade unions and employers, as well as with the practice of the European Union countries in order to be at the level of standards and those to which we will soon join. The final proposal for the law confirms this in particular because, below, such good cooperation is covered by the relevant articles of the law in question and in a satisfactory form. I think it is especially necessary to highlight cooperation with the existing Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction, that is, according to this law of future isolated chambers. In this occasion, it is unnecessary to repeat all the topics which this law deals with as well as the mechanisms it uses to target and achieve, because all of this has already been said in the first debate, so I will only limit myself to changes that have made the original text even better. First of all, legal and technical amendment of the text was carried out, especially through the preparation of transitional and other provisions. A clearer definition of certain concepts and a partial change in the system of exposure of matter in such a way that issues related to foreign entities are regulated in a separate chapter of the law, thus achieving greater transparency. The text of the law, meanwhile, is also in line with the proposal for a law on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, and biotechnical, forestry and agronomic professions, and landscape architects are explicitly listed as possible associates in the design of spatial planning documents. It is also possible for the co-operatives registered for construction to get consent to start their activities, and the project management activity of the construction project is much clearer. Projective supervision as a task of the profession involved in the design and professional supervision of construction, the prominent roles of the Croatian Chamber of Architects and other chambers of engineers in construction with regard to the promotion of Croatian construction heritage and landscape values, and the mandate of the ministry in the domain of supervision and establishment of violations has been prescribed. Keeping in mind all the said Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Law on Architectural Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23610	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23611	Dear Vice President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The organisation of the Croatian system, spatial planning and construction according to European guidelines began last year with the adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, and was continued with the recent adoption of the Law on Construction Products. However, even after the adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which was laid down outside the power of two laws, the 2003 Construction Act and the '94 Act. The provisions of these laws, which regulate the issues of performing spatial planning and designing of professional supervision of construction and construction activities, are in force. These two laws also regulate the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction from '98. So at this point, the problem of performing architectural and engineering affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction is regulated through 3 laws. The bill we're discussing today. These jobs will be arranged by law, which certainly is a welcome fact. What this does besides bringing together the problems of the three laws so far is passed by the Law on Architecture and Engineering and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction. It brings a new way of professional association between authorised engineers and architects of engineers, so instead of one chamber, Croatian chamber of architects and engineers in construction we will get 4 separate chambers following this law. Croatian Chamber of Architects, Croatian Chamber of Engineering, Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Engineering and Croatian Chamber of Electrical Engineering, and the Croatian Chamber of Geodesy Engineers whose constitution is governed by the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity. So, a charming, common society of various engineers will now have the opportunity to ensure better protection of their exact, professional and public interest related to individual engineering interests. The novelty of the existing regulation is that for the first time it is regulated to carry out the activities of the construction project with the purpose of enabling the investor to protect their money and interest, namely successful and legitimate construction. The person carrying out the project management activity of a building cannot at the same time be a designer of this building or carry out professional supervision of its construction. High sentences for architects, engineers, contractors and construction project managers are also provided if they are wrong about the law and profession, thereby causing damage to the investor. Moreover, the investor also has protection at the Institute which is provided for by law, which is the duty of ensuring all participants in the process of designing and building responsibility for the damage they could do to the investor consciously, unconsciously, out of ignorance or failure. Such liability insurance in the performance of its activity may be concluded in classical insurance houses, but may also be directed by each individual engineering chamber. Of course, as with all the laws that we comply with European legislation, this law regulates the way in which these businesses are done by entities from the Member States of the European Union. Although the general finding of interested shareholders in the area of construction and professional associations and trade unions has been carried out in the process of creating a bill of quality and broad public debate with a significant degree of acceptance of their proposals and requirements, there is one conflicting area here between the profession and the legislator. It is about the famous licensing of construction companies to do works in construction, i.e. the difference in access to domestic and foreign contractors. While domestic builders must pass a demanding process of obtaining the necessary license to be able to carry out their activities, performers from the European Union will not need to seek Croatian licensing, but will be able to build in Croatia everything they can according to the regulations of the country in which they are established. The domestic builders consider this discount to be a failure of the legislator and their discrimination against foreign performers. The attitude is therefore that they too would have to be licensed as all domestic companies. In fact, the facts suggest that most European countries do not have a similar licensing system at all. It is not Austria, Germany, Ireland, Denmark, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland, Great Britain. In Belgium, Greece, Spain and Poland, the licence is only required for participation in public procurement operations, and the only criterion for obtaining it is the financial force of the company, not the number of employees as in Croatia. In Portugal, Italy, Norway and France, licences are required for all works in construction, but the criterion is also not the number of employees, but financial forces and technical qualifications. In view of this unequal European company licensing practice, we also see domestic builders as having ambition and desire to work and earn money for Croatian domestic buildings as well as having to commit to an identical licensing process as well as our domestic ones. We ask the Proposer to explain his views and motives for the diversity of access to the licensing of domestic and foreign contractors. It is absolutely not right for domestic and foreign contractors to start from different starting positions. Despite the above-mentioned newspapers and different solutions to design and construction activities in this law, the essence and most significant part of the law is the problem of licensing construction firms to carry out their activities. As is known, this issue is regulated by the regulation in the licensing of construction firms that entered into force on 1 April of this year and managed to argue with all stakeholders: domestic and foreign contractors, professional associations and trade unions with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, which was adopted by this Regulation. Based on their reasoned remarks and concerns that the inadequate regulation will destroy a significant part of construction in Croatia, Minister Dropulic admits after several months that she has made a mistake, so the disputed licensing provisions correct this law that we are discussing today. The basic criticism and bitterness of the contested regulation was that he was suffocating small entrepreneurs and favouring large companies. According to some information in Croatia, the total of cca 130,000 construction workers. In early April, only about 357 were licensed and employed by 26,000, 700 workers, so only a quarter of all employees. The ministry claims that the licensed employs 70,000 workers so far, which means that the rules could leave 60,000 people out of work. We remind you, the Licensing Regulation for the construction work of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction has been adopted completely unprofessionally because it is based only on the square of buildings that are being built and on the number of workers needed to build those squares. Of course, there's a lot of illogicalness in that, even the funny ones, for example. A building of 800 square meters can be built by a company that has 40 employees, while only 1 square meter larger building can be built by a company that has 120 and more employees. This only pleases large companies that will get bigger jobs, or they will hire smaller companies and take advantage of profits, which all together leads to the acquisition of construction. It is not in the interest of most Croatian builders, building investors and ultimately Croatian citizens. It is not in the interest of the Croatian state that twenty companies perform 95% of construction jobs. According to that Regulation, 500 workers should also be employed in order to be licensed for the most demanding public purpose structures. This could only satisfy 14 construction companies in Croatia. Under this law, the most demanding public purposes are the highest of 9 license categories, but the criterion is the agreed value of construction over 7m euros and 300 workers are required to be employed for the licence in that category. For building a building of the same value, but which have no public purpose, companies with 200 employees, including 10 authorised building engineers, will be able to license themselves. For each further category and lower work value, fewer and fewer employees are required. The 7th category refers to the least demanding buildings that must not cost more than 1.5m euros, and for them it is enough to have 15 workers. The 8th and 9th categories include the implementation of the simplest buildings that require 8 and 2 employees, respectively. Without those companies that are real ficuses, the average construction company has 30 to 40 employees, and with that number they could do very few jobs. According to this law, the average company can still build an average building, not that it needs 120 workers. For buildings whose construction gross surface is not more than 400 square meters and for buildings to carry out agricultural activity whose gross area is not greater than 600 square meters, no licence is required. However, the law added that up to 400m euros should not be worth more than 150m euros. The general condition for all licensing categories is that in every company that deals with construction, as many as 3/4 employees, there must be professional staff, i.e. architectural, construction, engineering, electrical or geodetic professions. The licence shall be lost if contributions are not paid to employees of pension and health insurance. The employee of the contractor must be employed indefinitely in full-time on construction operations, except that the employees of the contractor from the quota of foreign nationals can be employed for a specified period of time under a specific law. We remind one of the basic declared intentions of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction in the adoption of the disputed regulation was to virtually eliminate them, or eliminate them from the possibility of obtaining the job of an engineering company without employees of construction workers, etc. the ficus of companies that were getting jobs and then reselling it to qualified performers. With this law, the company remains in the game of getting jobs to run a construction project that the investor can and does not have to negotiate. Here's the impression that the proposed solutions in this law are mostly satisfied. It is essential to abolish the wrongly restrictive regulation on the licensing of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and to allow for a fairer distribution of potential in the performance of construction works, and the company's ficus can survive on the market if it will further employ experts who can lead construction projects on behalf of investors. I'm closing up. The Croatian People's Party club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23612	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, Honorary Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23613	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning, which continues to reform the Croatian system of spatial planning and construction. The reform should at least bring about a positive change in principle, but it can be known to cause a deterioration of the situation. When adopting laws in the area of spatial planning, basic objectives should certainly be protection and prudent management or management of space as our most valuable resource, then moving to a quality if possible sustainable building in space, as well as a simpler and more transparent procedure for the establishment of building permits. The same goals should have this law. As we have already pointed out in our first reading, we are not unfortunately sure whether or not this bill will contribute to these goals. According to the explanation of this final proposal in the area of spatial planning, several amendments have been made, such as insurance, multidisciplinary and quality in the design of spatial plans, including representatives of different professions such as technical, biotechnical, natural, social, etc. I'm in the process of making it. Although this change is likely to improve the quality of spatial design we welcome as a good move. We believe that this in the way it is stated is not a guarantee for achieving the most important objective, and this is protection and thoughtful management of space. The multidisciplinaryity of urban planning, i.e. spatial planning, has been highlighted both through the knowledge of architectural and construction profession and through the repetition of the social and economic needs of a particular area and other professions such as geography, biology, ecology, demographics, biodynamic development, etc. Urbanism differs significantly from the architectural profession in its part-round and objectives. Since the urban profession is much wider than architectural and even their goals can be in great conflict. While the architectural profession mainly seeks to build more intensively in space, the urban, or spatial-plannery profession tends to establish harmony and balance between building and developing economic potentials on the one hand, and to preserve space and natural resources as the most valuable wealth of the community on the other. With this in mind, we are afraid that favoring the architectural profession at the expense of the urban, or spatial and planic professions can have extremely great negative consequences for the situation in Croatia, especially in the Croatian coast. Despite the inclusion of other spatial planning professions, it cannot be noticed that in other parts of this law, in particular in the field of design and professional construction supervision, it is also expressed to favour the architectural and construction profession in relation to all other technical professions that must inevitably be involved in the business under this law. That is why this bill has more illogical and questionableness, because it has the fact that it has been created according to measure and in the interest of the architectural and construction profession, and in some parts it is seen that it is also created for the narrow part of the entities involved in the business within that profession. For example, Article 51 provides that a legal person to carry out the activities of the management of a full-time sea construction project and for an indefinite period of time must have at least one employed master of law and a master of economy with at least five years of work experience in the profession. At the same time, graduate engineers are sufficient for the field of architecture and other technical professions for the same activity. The question is, how many legal persons in Croatia who are involved in design work have in their composition employees in academic called master's or more. College, or university diploma of a particular direction, is mostly a satisfactory condition for performing professional and responsible business in the area of the economy, and academic titles are mostly prescribed as an obligation in the fields of scientific, higher education, etc. an institution. Therefore, the question arises whether this article is also created in accordance with the model of a particular institution, or whether this article is intended to exclude some legal persons from the ability to manage projects. Another far more drastic example of favouring the architectural and construction profession concerns the position of the applicant in relation to the engineering profession or experts in the area. In this respect, the problem part of this law is the area of design, more specifically, of Chapter VI. The task of performing project design and control activities is regulated, and the engineering profession is significantly underrated. Article 60 of the final draft law excludes engineering engineers from the possibility of producing a project of load-bearing machinery structures. This is, and is generally known, the work done by engineering engineers with a professional exam, therefore authorised for design work, so far very professionally, responsibly and successfully carried out. A number of references are made to engineering and steel construction projects mainly in the area of process and industrial plants both in the country and abroad, which are evidence that engineers know and can work on a very high and demanding level of design. Many designers have authorized shipbuilding engineers, their entire working life, and this means for ten years they have designed projects of various steel structures. Some of these projects, such as liquid tanks, volume of several million litres, different containers of grain materials, pressure vessels, industrial chimneys, carrying structures of industrial and energy plants, pipelines for the transport of different products such as pipelines, pipelines, steam pipelines, smokeworks and similar facilities, function without any problem for years. So they're designed and they're made in quality. Despite all this, with this bill of law, the designers who designed them can no longer do it or may not be able to do it. The proposer of this law is the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. It has decided so voluntarily without relevant arguments, assessing and undermining the engineering profession. To this course of action in connection with the problem described, the entire profession in the field of engineering responded. The fact is that, during the preparation of this proposal, the applicant received a clear and expressed negative opinion of the engineering profession as regards the restrictions on the implementation of these tasks, which were prescribed in Article 60, i.e. in the previous proposal, Article 67, but did not find it appropriate to consider it more seriously, you can see that it is manifested or respected. The class of engineering engineers of the Croatian Chamber of Engineers in Construction has repeatedly pointed to the illogicality and harmfulness of such an approach by the promoter in the legal definition of these jobs. The most important Croatian institutions for the education of engineering engineers, four universities, the Faculty of Engineering and Shipbuilding from Zagreb, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Shipbuilding from Split, the Faculty of Engineering from Slavonski Brod and the Faculty of Engineering from Rijeka were jointly manifested about the position of the promoters of this law, i.e. the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Argumented in this respect, confirming that engineering engineers fully meet the conditions for performing design and professional supervision of engineering steel structures. The joint display of the above-mentioned colleges, which the applicant received in due time, highlighted the inappropriate depravation of the right to work by authorised engineers of engineering. Unfortunately, to multiple official correspondence, the proponent of this law did not react or appear. He did not respect any of the arguments presented and remains on his original proposal, which made it impossible for the engineering industry to carry out design and control tasks of engineering construction projects. This bill is marked P.Z.E. it would therefore be in line with the laws of the European Union. Or as the usual is said, it should be a European law to be applied in Croatia. But what kind of European law makes it impossible for engineers to carry out a certain type of professional work that I repeat is absolutely educated and trained in their own country, and that they can do the same in other European countries. The answer to this question obviously knows only the legislator. Until such an answer is given to us, justified by profession, and not by interests, we will not be able to support the adoption of this law. And it's in this kind of proposed form. I must say, that is precisely why we have proposed a few amendments to which we wish to improve this law which could be done and corrected by the draft of this law. Whether or not they will be respected will depend on any change of attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23614	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. He is the first respected representative of Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23615	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. After the first reading of the bill on architectural and engineering affairs and activities in spatial order and construction before us, the same bill is in a changed form. We welcome that positive change. In... the article remained unchanged. Here I am referring to Article 51 which speaks of the following: "The activities of the construction project can be carried out by a legal person registered for the purpose of performing these tasks which, in full-time, has employed at least one project manager, an authorised architect who has at least 5 years of working experience in the profession, an authorised engineer of construction, engineering and electrical engineering with at least 5 years of working experience in the profession, a Master of Law with at least 5 years of working experience in the profession and a Master of Economics with at least 5 years of working experience in the profession". I believe that this article should also be amended and that it reads: "The activities of the construction project can be carried out by a legal person registered to carry out these jobs which, in full-time, has at least one project manager employed", and I will explain why. There are several reasons for this attitude. The first lies in the fact that no project is the same in construction. The project team that will manage the construction project of Zagreb Airport will certainly not be the same as those who will eventually build the Pelješki bridge. Both will have architects and engineers of all professions, as well as lawyers and economists but probably not the same. Because there are no universal experts who can cover all kinds and more complex projects in construction. Today is the time of the specialist. The project manager collects a team of specialists for the specific task when he gets a new task and is disbanded at the end of the job. It is also common that teams are composed of members from around the world. I wonder how it'll satisfy the law then. Another reason is the possibility of abuse of the law to create a monopoly. Large companies satisfy the proposed law in the section of the composition of experts, but do not essentially have a profiled frame that can cover all projects. In this way, they will get jobs, yet they will take external specialists for individual areas, as they would have taken if there were no such provision. A good example of this is the negotiation of a public private partnership project. The third reason is the possibility of association provided by the existing Public Procurement Act. It enables social positions to be associated with the purpose of building project teams that will carry out a specific task in the best interests and legal interest and according to investor requirements. The next reason is that this treatment of project management activities, construction in the Member States of the European Union, is not available. And the last reason, but not less important, is that architects and engineers who are not involved in the management of construction projects, but only in spatial planning, designing and supervision are in a much more favourable position because for the establishment of their companies they must only have themselves as a minimum to start their activities, which is no less complex than the activities of building projects. The attached proposal to amend Article 51 is written in affirmative tone and relies on a similar formulation as set out in Article 14 of the same law, and provides for the possibility of equating the position of spatial plan makers and project leaders in a business that requires a multidisciplinary approach. It would be good if what applies to architects and legal persons who draw up plans, also applies to project leaders and legal persons involved in the project management activities in construction. Otherwise, if this proposal is not adopted, it will become evident that this law is being prepared for large companies, such as IGH "Invest engineering" and so on. to take over projects from small companies. Also in the first reading of the bill, we have assessed that, apart from architects and construction engineers, project leaders can also be engineers of other professions, does not follow the European tradition, and poses a potential risk of monopolising one part of the market. And at the end of my presentation, I would like to refer to Minister Dropulić's statement at the first reading of this law, and then Minister Dropulić said this, quote: "When engineers are at their university or shipbuilding engineers studying or listening to the subject of static, which speaks of how to design the subject of static that speaks of how to design a carrying steel construction of a hall, then we will certainly enter it into the law." Here, if Mrs. Minister doesn't know what the engineers are studying in college, I'll just list some of the items and these are mechanics or statics. Statistics is the basic and simplest part of the mechanics. And in mechanics is taught about the mechanics of stiff bodies, of steel, of frame... Carriers, spatial structures, mechanical structures, including steel aluminium and bearing structures in the case, metal structures for which the minister claims that the engineers do not learn about them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With such a statement, the minister insulted all the students of engineering colleges, all the professors and deans at those universities, and it would be nice to apologize to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23616	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23617	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. The adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which entered into force on 1 October 2007, launched a reform of the existing Croatian system of spatial planning and construction, which was found to be suitable for the initial transition phase from which the Republic of Croatia came out and that it is necessary to change it in order to bring the systems of the Member States of the European Union further closer. The reform was continued with the recent adoption of the law on construction products and should have ended at the legislative level by adopting the proposed Law on Architecture and Engineering Affairs, on spatial planning and construction. At present, the issue of performing architectural, engineering and spatial planning and construction activities. the supply of jobs of persons professionally engaged in construction and various organisational forms in which these tasks are carried out shall be governed by the provisions of Article 3(3) of the Law. The provisions of the mentioned laws on the implementation of architectural, engineering and spatial planning and construction activities by modelling the European Union countries, however, the implementation of those acts in the part relating to the performance of these tasks in the Republic of Croatia by entities from the Member States of the European Union is not in line with the European Community Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and the European Community's Internal Market Services Directive. Also, the way these issues are being regulated today does not respect the Croatian qualification framework that corresponds to the European qualification framework adopted at the end of 2007. Furthermore, the provisions of the mentioned laws on issues related to the performance of architectural and engineering activities and activities in spatial planning and construction are not arranged in an optimal manner. This relates first of all to the professional association of authorised architects and engineers who are assessed to be better organised in order to protect their but also public interest through more professional associations or chambers than in a single chamber, that is, the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction. This law also regulates the implementation of administrative and other procedures, as well as the rights and obligations of the authorities of the state administration, legal and natural persons in relation to that body. To this end, the proposed law regulates the professional activities of spatial planning, designing and professional construction supervision, organisational forms of doing business, carrying out construction activities, carrying out the activities of the construction project. Foreign persons performing the tasks of drawing up implementing documents of spatial arrangement, association in the chamber, compulsory liability insurance, supervision of law enforcement and subsequent provisions. The adoption of this law will obviously make much more order in this branch of the economy, and given the growing above, it will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23618	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23619	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Although I was speaking on behalf of the SDP club on this issue because of numerous contacts with my professional colleagues, so engineers and all that I have been exposed to as an argument against the adoption of such a legal proposal, I have to take advantage of the possibility for individual debate. Namely, I'm one of the engineering engineers who graduated from the Faculty of Engineering and Shipbuilding 25 years ago. At the time, engineers especially from the FSB were appreciated both in the country and abroad. They had no problem verifying their expertise or their diplomas or jobs, finding jobs in other countries of Europe, and especially in the area of the former state. You didn't have to talk much about which college you came from because the FSB's shortcut was all over the place and whoever you told in the FSB field knew who you were talking about. The quality and professional references of the FSB are given by the fact that people from all over the country came to postgraduate and postgraduate studies, so from all areas of the former state today and then, in particular, people from the European countries. So that was then, that was 25 years ago, that was 20 years ago, that's how it is today. So today, quality experts from engineering and shipbuilding and aviation techniques are educated at FSB, as is known. In this context, it should be noted that in the area of engineering, other colleges have developed, which are shoulder to shoulder with the Faculty of Engineering and Shipbuilding. So the current competence in the field of engineering is really very stressed. This, of course, has a significant impact in a positive way on the fact that engineers of engineering who graduate from those studies are already involved through the so-called “higher age”. the form of scouting in some sports dictionary and lines of well-known European and world-wide companies, i.e. in the form of scholarship for certain prestigious universities around the world, with exceptional conditions for professional training and then for staying in those or similar institutions. In such a situation, it is extremely difficult to retain a young quality engineering engineer who completes his studies with a high average rating and receives different awards for his student achievements in the field of profession. So I would like to point out once again that engineering engineers who are educated in our engineering colleges are very wanted and that their expertise and respect are appreciated and respected. And it is therefore strange that now, from one time, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction argues that they are not qualified for design and supervision activities of load-bearing machinery structures. Or even weirder, to deny the existence of carrying machinery structures as a building facility, so in the bill, the work of the engineering profession is limited only to installations, equipment and facilities. And I'm asking myself, I'm asking other colleagues who know something about this area then what are steel tanks in which millions of liters of oil and derivatives are in our Croatian refineries. Or that these are steel cranes that are more in the streets of Zagreb than in the entire Vukovar-Srijem County, as one of our former local politicians said. What are the pipelines that lead the hot water from the heat and heat standard complexes in the cities? Or they're high steel chimneys of HEP in their power plants. Or a smokeworks of different power plants. What they stand on, what they hang on to, what they carry on these structures, if they're not carrying steel structures. And the projects according to which they were designed and implemented were supervised by engineers of engineering and, of course, by authorised engineers of engineering with appropriate references. I have to commit here again and to the segment of the debate between my esteemed colleague Habek, therefore, to that unfortunate act of asking questions, when Mrs. Minister, in a previous reading of the bill, answered the question of counterpart Habek, banning the problem of the engineering faculty, or engineers, saying that I am not repeating what my colleague Habek had already said, when they were listening to the subject of static. This is a difficult one and forgive the expression of a rather arrogant statement, since both the machinery and the shipbuilding profession are being humiliated in an ugly way. Why? Because here it is necessary to say that engineers and listen and listen to and listen in their universities are a complete mechanic, and this means a static which is the very basis of mechanics and kinetics and dynamics, and that on the construction models of engineering colleges 30-a-half of the different objects that are related to construction construction. Of which, half of these items in the name itself have the concept of structure. Of course, all this is available to anyone who clicks on the Internet on the FSB school program it is easy and easy to see both the clock and the subject content. It should also be said here that some of the professors from the FSB, such as Professor Osman Muftic, the first Croatian Minister of Science, taught and taught mechanics, were authors of many textbooks, some of which were just from literature mechanics, which was also recommended at the Faculty of Architecture for preparing and passing mechanics exams. Therefore, I ask myself but also to all others, in which way or by which a leading minister sets such a one thesis that when they listen to a statisticist, they will be included in the bill. You can't end up thinking about mechanics, or thinking about statics, adding construction or construction so that it can change its contents. In the station there will always be forces, moments will always be moments, carriers will always be carriers and so on. So absolutely, I don't get it. And even some additional questions that were asked by the body of communication with the class of engineering engineers such as why engineers can't be so they say, they don't listen to seismics, they listen to engineers and seismics, they listen to absolutely everything they can imagine in these areas. And not in one case, but in several cases. But I don't think Madam Minister knows that, because I don't repeat what I said and the dean of college, and I don't think they're inconclusive people, and I don't consider those colleges to be non-serious institutions because they've repeated it many times. I have to say that this ease of disqualification of other technical professions, however harshly it sounds, reminds me of one national disqualification of one profession, but I would also say one international disgrace, as all the people who are designers can still do projects in foreign countries today, carrying steel engineering structures, and, as proposed by this law, it will not be possible in Croatia. But it was ultimately decided by the legislator of this law and therefore, in this form, this law is unacceptable. If we don't do it and we don't secure one continuity, which is that these people who have done it without error so far, yes and today, that is to keep working on designing and monitoring projects. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23620	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Davor Mrduljas, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23621	Thank you very much. Here I am thanking you for a constructive discussion, and I'll look back on just a few things about engineering engineers. No one underestimates engineering engineers nor have they been underestimated so far through current laws and through the status of the chamber that edited these non-professional tasks, but they were professional tasks and so on. We have considered all the comments, we have gone with this proposal, yesterday we have also had a debate on the Committee on, the parent committee on spatial planning and construction and the relevant provision of Article 60, which is what I think indent 2 paragraph 1 will be brought into line with all the comments of the Committee that he has made his amendment with that being as already more actually amended, I see that now some other amendments have arrived the same in that regard. But that amendment and the proposal that was made yesterday on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction will be incorporated into the text of the law. Therefore, neither the ministry has ever gone to discrimination on any profession. You need to take care of certain things, now that I don't, because you still have a lot of work ahead of you. As for licensing, the licensed performer is that the rule has caused a certain storm, but you know why he caused the storm, because our people thought that as for any old, good Croatian custom, when a deadline for applying a certain rule came on, and he had a delayed period of 18 months to extend the deadline, this is why there was panic. That was the biggest reason for panic, regardless of the conditions now, the number of performers and this. It's in accordance with the rule about... From the date of entry into force of this law, it shall cease to apply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] New criteria have been introduced, they are agreed and with... By association of construction employers, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the construction sector and trade unions, the largest construction union of Croatia, with their representatives, and this is a compromise proposal that increases, will be able to still be licensed in relation to the current situation in Regulation 980 companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is how I can say, according to some rough calculation that even the Croatian Chamber of Commerce under the rule could have used the license of 4295 companies. Now, according to the law, they'll be able to use 5275 companies. We think it's a satisfactory number, that everyone will be pleased. As far as relations with foreign companies are concerned, it is not exactly true that there is no licensing system in Europe. It exists through different systems and is done by different institutions. It's done somewhere by the ministries, somewhere by certain associations or associations of professional organisations, all depends on how the legislative system is put together. That provision, which applies under conditions in its country, shall apply only from the date of accession of Croatia to the European Union. Everyone's familiar with that. These are certain obligations which unfortunately stem from the SAA. I can tell you, regardless of this strict rule, when you talk to people no matter what it was that people feel slowly order. The order between performers in the performance of the work began slowly. No more unfair competition, one firm, one man, and then he's doing a 20-story skyscraper, and I'm cartooning. Therefore, this improvement is considered to be an even greater number of companies, depending on normal economic opportunities and how much work they will be on the market for the Republic of Croatia, they will be able to do jobs. It's about project management. There may be a little doubt here, perhaps a little misunderstanding, what we've prescribed is a minimum of minimum and we've given up granting consent to such companies. They may be established in accordance with the company law with these minimum conditions. It is not true that one of the colleagues of that representative pointed out that he must have a Master of Law and a Master of Economics, and then he has a graduate architect. The names in the law were taken according to Bologna, therefore this authorised architect when you look at the definition of an authorised architect or an authorised engineer of construction, engineering, electrical engineering, he has a degree, no more diploma, it's a new now testimony, we have to get used to it, he's a master engineer of architecture, master engineer of construction, master engineer of engineering or electrical engineering by new. We're former graduate lawyers, economists. Economists are masters of economy and lawyers are masters of law. There is a law that this House has passed and the regulations adopted by the Minister of Science that, if you want, all of us who have completed this current old system of colleges can ask for equalization of a graduate engineer with a master engineer. The colleges do that, as far as I know, he's already started doing whoever he wants. So this is one minimum minimum. It does not mean when it comes to a joint bidder under the Public Procurement Act that there can be no association in the conduct of the project. When running a project in the sense of this law, it may be a little misunderstood. We wanted to do this next. The layish simplest explanation that I have explained at all the expert meetings and public hearings when this law has been discussed with the profession and other interested entities, which is: The investor is generally a ignorant party. I'm an investor who, for example, has an example. Some money, and I want to invest in building skyscrapers. I don't know anything about construction, I don't know any designers, I don't know any surveillance engineers, I don't know any performers, I don't know anyone. I'll talk to the company that's registered for this. The fact is that in Croatia today there are various engineering and consulting companies. Engineering and consulting in no law in Croatia exists. It's old law relapses back in '74. the year, neither the Company Act nor the National Classification of Activities. Trade courts write down what they're writing down because they can sign up, but they're writing down watch out for the star. That's what you have to talk about, yeah. We in this way de facto give them a certain legal framework for those who deal with it. Therefore, such a firm will represent me as an ignorant investor in the sense that they will find me a contractor, that they will find me, of course, a designer first, that they will find me expert construction control. She'll coordinate with everything and I'll come and get the keys. I'll pay her to find someone for me and do what she needs for me. De facto it's a certain way of representing business. There's no obligation, it's an investor's free will, he can but he doesn't have to hire such a company. And he's not worried about what's said to be a monopoly, so we're going to have three, four big firms. That's not true, this is the minimum companies have to meet. They can always thank God today and any other company in Croatia that is not in this Law and deals with other activities always hires a number of people if they need it depending on the level of the project. When it comes to what you're talking about, what the MP was talking about, I mean, Habek or Heffer, I'm sorry I didn't say my last name. When you say why don't you work on your own as authorized architects who have an independent office. Performing works of architecture in an independent office is an exercise in terms of free profession. And that's why we have this system, we already have '99. A year. In 1999, by adopting the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Architects, Engineers in Construction and Construction Act of 1999, when we first opened the door to these jobs as a free profession. Here I am saying, I think all the doubts remain from the law and we hope that with what we discussed yesterday on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction related to the tasks of the profession, because the professional tasks will be further developed through the statutes of individual chambers, that things are placed in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23622	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23623	Here, I'd like to correct the secretary of state who... In fact, it's this article in the 51st I've been talking about. You have now said that it is not exactly as it says in the law, or in the proposal for an article. In the proposal for an article, it strictly states what is required or who can manage and which company is able to manage a project. And that's just what the project manager listed and the authorisation officer says, so they're all listed entirely. And I don't see any reason why you're now saying that it's not like that or that it can be interpreted differently. And the magistrate, the magistrate, we won't have two more years. We know why. That is why we, therefore, have made a proposal for an amendment which would in this article, that each means that project must have one project manager and that it must have not in, employed or all of these others that we have listed but that in the project management business it is obliged to ensure the participation of some of those that we are, or each of those that I have listed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23624	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law on architectural and engineering affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 167. The debate is over. You've been sent a review of the amendments to the bench. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. Secretary of State Mr. Davor You're scrawny. Here you go. We begin with the first amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23626	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23627	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2 also the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23628	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23629	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Three MPs, Maria Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23630	It's unacceptable. It is not accepted for the purpose of the amendment in question to amend the whole meaning of this project management institute. In addition, the amendment is not legally or unambiguously proposed. It is not apparent from the amendment whether the legal person should only have a project manager or should have a project manager and these four employees as proposed. In fact, the provisions of the law itself lay down the minimum conditions for the business of a legal person.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23631	Mr. Representative Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23632	The purpose of this amendment was to protect small companies. If you do not accept this amendment you will directly destroy small companies and please large companies such as IGH. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23633	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4, The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23634	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23635	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 5, MPs Slavko Linić and Luka Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23636	The amendment is not accepted because it has been consumed or accepted through this previous amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23637	Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23638	We are withdrawing the amendment since the government has accepted the amendment of the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23639	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 6th Amendment of Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23640	It is also not accepted for the same reasons as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23641	Mr. Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23642	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23643	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 7 amendments to the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23644	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23645	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Building 8th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23646	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23647	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 9, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23648	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23649	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 10, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23650	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23651	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was adopted by a majority vote with 100 votes in favour and 4 votes abstentioned along with the amendments adopted. We move to: - Proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy, first reading of P.Z.E. Number 204. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was held: the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Environment and the Committee on the Economy. You received the report at the session. Does he? There is one possible suggestion that what the proposaler does not object to is to bring these two laws together, therefore, and to discuss together, the financing and the Water Act. If there's any opposition, we won't. We're going individually. ... They're different. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So we're going individually. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. State Secretary at the Ministry of Development, Regional Development, Forestry... Zdravko Krmek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23653	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's let me start by saying an introductory few words about the draft proposal on the Water Economy Financing Act. In the introduction, I would like to say that, compared to the existing law that was passed in early 1995 and the amendments and additions to this law, which was passed at the end of 2005, there were no major amendments. I would like to say here that, in relation to the existing law, we are taking on two fees from the Law on the Community Economy. This is the former compensation, in fact, the current compensation from the Law on the Communist Economy, which is the communal compensation for the development of water supply, or municipal treatment. It is now called a development fee under this law. And also under the Law on the Community Economy, the existing accession fee becomes the same name and has the same name in this law. What I want to add is that these two fees can be introduced by cities and municipalities, or several cities and municipalities, or the community of the service area. What is most important to point out here is that this development fee is the income of cities and municipalities and also this second fee and it is the basis for withdrawing money from EU funds. So if any of the cities and municipalities have completed technical documentation, building permit and everything else and if they want to run for Union funds, they are obliged to provide and part of the money means in their own area and this law means we allow it. What is additional news and convenience in this law is that one part of the fees that have so far been compensations for Croatian waters is now going to the level of the regional self-government, i.e. it is a compensation for the melioration drain and the compensation for melioration irrigation. So these two fees are the county's income and the decision by the congregations of the same counties will also determine their purpose and the way they will, where and how they will be used. I would also like to say that as far as the Water Economy Financing Act is concerned, we have one additional newspaper, which means that as far as communals and so on. public operators who have received such a name under this law mean that these are the water pipelines or all the utility companies dealing with the disposal system here are also according to this law means reform and all structure according to the Water Act that we are going to say about later, the transitional period means for their reform is 36 months and 3 years, respectively. Finally, I would like to add that this law completes the financing in the water economy and creates what we brought here in the Croatian Parliament about 5 months ago, which is the Water Management Strategy, so we are creating an opportunity to invest in the area of public water supply in the next 15 years somewhere around 13 billion kuna. We also create opportunities to invest 20 million kunas in the area of the public sewage system or wastewater treatment over the next 15 years, and also to defend themselves from floods in the next 15 years and invest about 10 billion kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23654	Thank you. Do the work bodies want reporters? Yeah. Mr Zlatko Koračević, Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23655	Thank you very much. The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 8th session held on 3 December 2008 the proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 27 November 2008. The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament has discussed the draft law in accordance with the provisions of Rule 88a) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. Following the opening presentation of the representatives of the committee, the committee members are familiar with the written opinion submitted by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Agriculture, Food Industry and Forestry on the proposal of the Water Economy Financing Act. In its opinion, it is proposed that, in view of the exceptional importance for the survival and operation of the freshwater aqua sector, it is necessary to add, in Article 5 of this proposal, the compensation for the use of water for the production of fish in closed waters. It is also proposed that a new item should be added in the same article to exempt the freshwater aqua sector from paying other of those water charges. These proposals for the freshwater fisheries sector, instead of 5 water fees, are provided for only one which would be regulated by a special regulation, are explained by the fact that freshwater fishing as a medium for cultivation exclusively uses the rainwater after which it is returned to... and in the same or better condition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the debate on that proposal, the members of the Committee supported its acceptance, as it would allow water compensation funds to be used only for established purposes and solidarity among all users. Some board members agreed with the proposals of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce as these proposed solutions could help a weakened branch of freshwater fisheries, which is burdened with high water fees and damages from fish birds. In the debate further raised doubts as to solutions which are charged for the use of water for affected quantities of water as opposed to the previous quantities of water delivered. In this respect, it is also intended to finance the recovery of the loss of a particular service area, which can significantly affect the rise in water prices. In fact, it is questionable whether the transitional period of 5 years is realistic given the state in which the waters are located. It also draws attention to the fact that bonds which release wastewater and pay compensation for the protection of water by the amount of water released in implementation clearly determine the correction coefficient which reduces the amount of compensation in the areas in which the waste water treatment device is built. It is also argued that the questionable solution is that producers and importers of mineral fertilisers from plant protection products pay two-base water protection fee as well as persons who release waste water and as producers, or importers. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and the Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion, which is that the proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy and any observations and proposals made in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23656	Thank you. The Committee on Reconstruction and Development, chairman of Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil's committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23657	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 13th session held on 4 December 2008 discussed the proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy as an interested working body. In the opening explanation of the proposing representatives, the need to regulate the issue of funding of the water economy is highlighted, primarily, by harmonising legislation with the European Union and by providing sufficient resources to implement water protection measures with a view to achieving a good water status in water areas. The introduction of newspapers in relation to the applicable law is necessary in order to ensure the means necessary to achieve an effective economic and guaranteed standard of water services in public water supply, disposal and treatment of waste water. It points out that existing water compensations and partially completed purposes and method of calculation have been retained, and in the opening statement a particularly prominent proposal to introduce development and accession fees. In the debate, remarks and proposals were made to free freshwater aqua culture from part of the water compensation to become competitive on the market. It would be correct that the water protection charge payment obligation is required to measure the actual amount of waste water released on the last measuring window before the release into the public discharge system and is based on the calculation of the obligations under that charge. The law provides for a range of the amount of water compensation in the financing of the water holding and determines the principle of compensation for irrigation of agricultural areas in such a way as to take into account the amount of water consumed in view of the different needs of certain agricultural cultures, and not just the area. After the debate was held, the committee decided by a majority vote, 6 votes for, 1 vote against and 4 abstentions to the Croatian Parliament to conclude that the proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy and opinions, observations and proposals was adopted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23658	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23659	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The adoption of a new Water Economy Financing Act, as stated by the applicant, is primarily necessary in order to bring the legislation in the water economy into line with European Union legislation, and to ensure sufficient resources to ensure water protection in order to achieve the good condition of all water in water areas. This proposal retains all existing water compensations and this water contribution, water use fees, water protection fees, water control fees, sand and gravel extraction fees, Melioration discharge fees and irrigation fees, but has been partially supplemented by both the purposes and the partially modified method of accounting. In addition to the fees referred to above, two more are introduced by the law, although they have been taken over by the Law on the Communist Economy and this compensation for development and accession fees. Development fee can be introduced, and is used to build public water supply buildings and public draining and water treatment buildings. It shall be calculated by means of a water service and community income account of the service area, while the connection fee may be introduced for the connection of buildings and other properties to public water supply and public sewage, waste water, and the unit of local self-government whose income is also used for the same purposes as the development fee. At the very beginning, I would like to say that, despite the fact that there are 9 types of compensations provided for as sources of funding for the water economy, and that other sources of funding and this state budget, as well as the budget of units of regional self-government, units of local self-government are provided. It's about a lot of resources. Investments in the water economy are really too small. The problem of the water economy is primarily an unsatisfactory level of population involvement in public water supply systems and public sewage systems, large water losses in the water supply system are insufficient use of water potential and insufficient flood protection. If that were true, that's what the following data is about. The connection to public water supply systems is 76%. The integration of citizens and the economy to public sewage systems is 40%, and of which 23% of wastewater is purified by the population collected by the public sewage system. Croatia needs large investments in the conservation of drinking water springs, the recovery of pollutants, the prevention of the release of polluted water into the environment, further construction, reconstruction and regular maintenance of water structures, flood water protection systems, as well as the deforestation systems of excess surface and groundwater. Furthermore, the damage to agriculture, the water economy and other activities due to the occasional occurrence of excess water and floods or droughts are almost regular occurrences with increasingly severe consequences. Agriculture as well as other activities related to soil management as a national treasure is the most affected. As a result, it is necessary to carry out the water treatment measures as well as irrigation because flood risks today are very high and not only because of the insufficient construction of the flood protection system and the drain system, but also more due to insufficient maintenance of the implemented systems. The question arises in the purpose of spending the funds collected, and the conditional and justification of the existence of so many types of compensation. I will mention here the water contribution that was introduced during 2006 and it seems that the Croatian Waters' revenue has been very generous because, according to the promoter, sufficient resources have been provided over the past 2.5 years for the intended purposes financed from this contribution, so the construction of regulatory water protection structures and water contribution funds is foreseen instead of State budget funds. I will remind you, the water contribution pays by the investor, is paid in 3 zones, and the base consists of business premises, residential buildings for permanent and occasional housing, social standard facilities, religious facilities, production facilities, roads, product pipelines, telecommunications sewers, open special buildings and other open buildings. The division of the three zones itself had no reasonable explanation because they were under other areas of Croatia, and this zone B entered all areas except the City of Zagreb and the protected coastal area of the sea and the area of special state care. Thus, the same water contribution was paid by the investor in the smallest place, e.g. The municipality of Crnac, located in Virovitica-Podravska County as well as the one in the centre of Osijek. The SDP considers it necessary to examine the justification of the existence of a water contribution, i.e. we believe that its abolition is necessary because it would thus reduce the contributions paid by economic operators to investment, and in the coming crisis, the disbursement of investors would mean the provision of new jobs. The Government should also review the eligibility of the water compensation for the freshwater aquaculture sector, i.e. we propose that that sector be exempt from the water compensation payments set out in Article 5 of this Act. We believe that this is necessary because of the specificity of this production which the water uses only as a medium for cultivation and returns it back to the repient from which it was taken in the same or even better condition. In addition, we say that there are no such water charges in the countries of the European Union which are directly competitors in the production of freshwater fish. I would also like to say something further on the compensation for the melioration drain paid on agricultural land in the area of the regional self-government unit in which the buildings were built for the detailed Melioration Disposal owned by those units. This fee has not been announced so far because the system of detailed melioration disposal over the past 10 years has been devastated, abandoned and first needed to be brought into a functional state. However, the assessment of the arrangement of almost 40% of the system of detailed melioration disposal that has been brought to the function is very superficial and casual and according to my knowledge too high. Furthermore, in accordance with the new Water Law Proposal, units of the district self-government will take over trained systems for further care. Management and maintenance, which will be financed from this fee for which they are due, shall also collect funds to ensure regular maintenance. I must say, this provision opens up a whole series of questions. What is meant by the takeover of qualified systems prescribed in Article 94 of this proposal? Does this mean channels brought into zero state functionally or channels with solved property-legal issues? Namely, no property-legal relations have been resolved for a number of channels. Is this going to solve Croatian waters before the handover or regional self-government after the takeover since it is a significant means for geodesic-parceleration elaborates? There are a lot of channels that are not even listed in the cadastrian plans, and the problem of buying-out is the kind of privileges that need to be implemented because some channels are owned by natural or legal persons. That is, the problem is unsettled property-legal relations. In addition, in the case of resolved property relations for the canals of detailed disposal, a book was held in such a way that the name of the county was entered in the owner's register for the management of Croatian Waters. We're asking what the management of the district self-government units means. By transferring these jobs to units of the district self-government, it means establishing new services, i.e. new cost for employees’ salaries, providing space, because someone must carry out these tasks that are put into the jurisdiction of local units. Then the question arises whether the Melioration discharge fee applies only to the open canal network of detailed drains, and what about the drenated surfaces? They don't mention each other anywhere. Who manages them, and who should maintain them? In addition to the problem of taking over a trained channel network, there is another uncertainty, which is Article 94(2), which prescribes that revenue determined by decision on the amount of compensation cannot be greater than the amount of funding needed for the financing of the building maintenance programme of a detailed meliorative discharge. How exactly does it predict the means needed, or what if they are smaller or if they are larger? In addition, these funds are also financed by the operating expenditure to achieve the very revenue from the compensation, that is, Article 51(2) of this proposal. The applicant under point 2 of the assessment of the situation and the basic issues to be resolved by law only speaks of the obligations of the debtor of the compensation, which is one-way, which is, with the right of the obligor, compensation for the damages resulting from the construction and regular technical and economic maintenance of the water flow, i.e. regulatory and protective water structures. Which, with the rights of the debtor, is the damage caused by the flood or the non-delivery of drinking water to public water supply buildings, for example, by the fact that it was in Slavonski Brod or other damages incurred under the management of the users of the compensation financed under this law. In addition, when determining the level of the Melioration discharge fee, it should be taken into account that it is corrected by a coefficient based on a catastrian class one to seven and a single cadastrian culture, e.g. Oranica, vineyard, orchard and the like. As regards the compensation for irrigation paid on agricultural land which is irrigated in the ownership of units of the regional self-government and which has not been set up so far, however, the implementation of the national irrigation and management programme of agricultural land and water, as the proposer said, created conditions for the delivery of water for water to end-users, for the irrigation of 15 thousand hectares of land. We have to say that it's in the government's 2008/2011 programme. indicated that at least 60 thousand hectares of land would be irrigated. To date, it is visible from the applicant's data, only 15 thousand hectares are irrigated, which means that the project itself is progressing with a snail's step. It is tragic that Croatia, when water is used for irrigation, stands at the very bottom of the scale, is irrigated 1% of European countries, 1%, while in other European countries, e.g. For example, Italy, Bulgaria, Romania, is irrigated around 20.30%, Albania is over 50% of the agricultural area. Due to the slow progress of the irrigation project to be financed from state sources, pre-accession funds, global banks and others, large drought damages were particularly known in 2001, '03, and 2005, where damages were estimated in billions of kuna. I have to say here that in the county from which I come Virovitica-Podravska two pilot irrigation projects are being implemented and that the activities around this first project that started in 2005 are only signed at 11 months this year, so around three years, property legal issues, protected belt problems and others are being resolved. Because of the slowness of the entire national project, peasants are left with nothing but to rely on how God gives. And finally, I want to say something about the development fee, that is, the accession fee. With these fees, citizens pay for the same purpose. Because the revenues made from these fees are used to finance the construction of public water supply buildings and public sewage buildings and the treatment of waste water. Only the revenue from the development fee belongs to the service area community while the income from the accession fee belongs to the local self-government. Thus, it turns out that citizens who pay the accession fee, i.e. those who have already paid it and who are connected to water supply systems or disposal systems, must also pay development fees. Instead of financing construction, it is transferred to citizens who thus pay two fees for one and the same purpose. For all the above reasons, the SDP Club will not support this bill unless the applicant accepts our comments and the proposals that I made in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23660	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23661	Dear President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. As is known, the water economy in Croatia is financed from the state budget and the budget of the units of local self-government, with a smaller part of about 22% of Croatian water income, i.e. About 440 million kuna, and from water fees, mostly around 78% of Croatian Waters' income, i.e. About a billion 767 million kunas a year. In the water compensation structure of a billion 767 million kuna, the largest contribution is the water treatment fee of around 660 million kunas, then the water contribution of 540 million kunas, then the water use fee of 286 million kunas, then the water protection fee of 254 million kunas, and finally the compensation for gravel and sand 21 million kunas and the cost of melioration draining of 6 million kunas. We remind you of the basics for the most significant 4 of the total 6 water charges. The water treatment fee shall be paid by the owner of the existing real estate according to the four-metre real estate. The water contribution shall be paid by the investor of a new building built according to a cubic, square or long meter of construction depending on the type of construction without confirmation of the paid water contribution cannot be granted a permit for construction. Water charges shall be paid by legal and natural persons who draw water for use for drinking, market sales, propulsion, technology and other purposes, irrigation of fish and the like, and for the use of water power in the production of electricity. In this respect, it should be said that the compensation for the use of water from end-users connected to the public water supply system is charged and charged through the transitional accounts by suppliers of the municipal supply service to drinking water. The charges charged by consumers are made available to the Croatian Waters by suppliers of municipal services. The fee shall be paid according to the quantity of water delivered to the consumer. Water protection fee is paid by individual persons who release technological, sanitary and other waste water, and from consumers connected to the water supply system, water protection compensation is charged by suppliers of municipal supply services to drinking water. After that, the charges charged by consumers are re-delivered to Croatian waters by suppliers of municipal services. The fee shall be paid according to the amount of wastewater released. In practice, the base is mostly the amount of consumed drinking water by consumers, as well as the fee for the use of water. The water management strategy of the Republic of Croatia, recently adopted and the Water Act, also points out the basic principle on which water economy financing is based, which is the beneficiary, i.e. the pay pollutant, which means that water economy funding funds are provided from water-paying water consumers for the use of water or water-protectors. But, gentlemen, the paper on the strategy hasn't even dried up yet and the Water Act has not yet been passed, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing the opposite of what is in the strategy and the law. It proposes this proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy to which we derivate this strategic provision that the user pays and proposes a law for the use of water instead of consumers, i.e. the consumer of water, which will be paid by water supply companies or by communals, but not on the basis of the quantities spent by consumers, but on the basis of the amount of water that their water pumps have withdrawn from the water source. This is a big, gruesome con of municipalities and cities, their utility companies and citizens themselves who use and pay water. Here's why, because we all know that on the road from the source of the waterway to our waterway by the house...about 40% of the water affected at the source. Why did he get lost? Because water comes to our houses by pipes older and more than 80 years old. From the salon, from the cast iron, PVC and polyethylene that on that path should also be passed through several pump cells and water storage. Croatia is full of hills and mountains except for the lower part of Croatia. The hills are a paradise for a view, for a trip and entertainment but death for water distribution. Winter November, summer droughts, floods, soil erosion, urbanization, human action and its working machines, the irresponsibility of builders, performers of other installations in the country, gas, electricity, sewers, telecommunications, etc., lead to water pipes firing day and night, that water goes to the mother country and that water distributors do not know and can not prevent it. There are also large, but old and corroded leak valves in shafts, pump stations and water supplies. And now, even though we all know about it, we're getting this bill by which the communals have to pay a fee for not using water. I repeat, no water use because so far citizens have paid the state 0,80 kuna per cubic metre spent, used water in their houses through utility companies. Citizens paid, communals charged and forwarded money to Croatian waters. Now according to this proposal, the communals will have to pay for the water that the citizens did not spend that was lost in their mother country on their way to them. It's translated into numbers. Croatian waters have now been incometing 286 million kunas from the water use fee, in principle, the user pays the water fee he spent. Now the communals will have to pay 66% more, so 476 million kuna or 190 million kuna more, because the supply is not spent water, but the water that they have hit from the country at 100%, but which has fallen by 40% through the porn tubes, compounds and gas station valves on the way to the consumer. An example. Citizens in a city spent a million cubic pounds of water, which means that according to the old law, a communal man paid 800 thousand kuna for the use of water to Croatian waters paid to him by citizens for water consumption. Now, according to the new law, the communal will pay a fee of a million 666 thousand cc's of water, although citizens spend a million cc's of water, i.e. The communal will have to pay a million 332 thousand kuna, not 800 thousand kuna as before. Where's that user-paying principle for the fee he spent? You know what has to happen? The increase in water prices towards citizens who will curse their communals and local authorities, although it is the government of the Republic of Croatia's fault. The water use fee now represents an average of 10% of the water price to citizens in Croatia. The komunalac has, for example, a price of 8 kuna per cubic cubic of water delivered to consumers where 0,80 kuna per cubic metre of water is spent from the basic fee for water delivered. In order to compensate for what the state will have to pay from the basic fees for using water and for what the citizens have not spent, the utility will have to raise the price of water by the missing difference, that is by a minimum of 7%. About eight.5 kuna per cubic metre. If the average household spends 150 cubic metres of water annually, this means that in the register of Croatian waters it will have to give an additional 75 kuna, somewhere more for what it did not spend. Only Croatia's waters should also charge water protection compensation based on communal data on affected waters on springs, not on those quantities spent by citizens in their houses. This would take a new hundred kunas from citizens' pockets, 200 million kuna in the register of Croatian waters. I remind you, these two fees are now calculated according to the same criteria, spent water in the household. Therefore, I would ask the promoter to explain to us on what accounting criteria the compensation for the protection of 0,90 kuna water per cubic metre of waste water will be calculated. Whether through the amount of water that came into the house through the water pipes and later through the sink, sink, toilet or bathtub went into the sewer or Croatian waters would charge communals with a water protection fee on the quantities of drinking water affected at the springs. The proposer of this new harak towards the citizens of the communals or local community however you like, says in the explanation that the compensation is collected on the water quantities affected rather than on the quantities of water delivered, but with a transitional period, hear from 5 years in which the funds will be financed and the recovery of losses will be recovered. What they mean is that municipalities and cities should resuscitate the water lines so there won't be 40% water loss but 10% or 15%. The municipalities and cities have no money to do so, and under the new rules, funding units of local self-government and their businesses cannot even be in charge of the recovery of the water network. The state can, but will not, because in the 2009 budget and projections for 2010 and 2011, we do not see no million, no billions, no kunas for the recovery of waternets., Be careful we have a hundred distributors in the water in Croatia, none can resuscitate their network without 20-30 million kuna, that means 2-3 billion kuna at Croatia level. At the very least, the recovery of the water network will not occur, and because there is no one to invest several billion kunas in the rehabilitation of local water networks, citizens will still pay 10 or 15% of the fog, air, deception and fraud. There is, of course, an additional pearl, which is why I emphasized the five years. Although the five-year transitional period for the recovery of local water supply networks is mentioned in Article 96 of the Law, the provision on the payment of compensation for the use of water according to the amount of water affected at source shall enter into force for three years, i.e. 1 January 2012 Too much for a reasonable, logical and acceptable solution, but enough for the pronunciation that it is another peeling of the skin of poor citizens. I only hope that fellow representatives from the ruling parties will still not agree to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23662	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Ante Kulušić. Here you go, buddy. Before that, I apologize for correcting the wrong quote by my colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23663	Mr. Vice President, just one correction to an incorrect quote in a lot of incorrect claims made by a colleague. I'd say it's not true that those who properly distributed water, who cared about their water systems, are old, rusted valves, water leaks, and so forth. All normally used the possibility of setting up control control systems, control of distribution, consumption and everything that's going on in the water systems. So you can clearly see and know on the display how much water flow is made in an hour, a minute, during the day. They've all built control systems to control water distribution. The collection... paid on the water was used to restore the network. That's probably not the case with you, that's the question of your local relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23664	I'm a colleague of Kulusic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23665	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal of the Water Economy Financing Act. The development and adoption of the Water Economy Financing Act is primarily necessary in order to bring legislation in the water economy into line with European Union legislation and to ensure sufficient resources to ensure that water protection measures are implemented in order to achieve the good state of all water in water areas. The proposal for a Water Economy Financing Act has been retained all existing water compensations, but they have been partially supplemented by the purposes and in part the method of accounting changed. In view of the takeover into account, public water supply and public disposal and wastewater treatment activities in the part-round water economy, two new fees are also prescribed in the proposal of the Water Economy Financing Act. Development and accession fees. The registration and income of both fees has been possible so far in accordance with the existing Law on the municipal economy, however, they were not legally defined, but were prescribed by the operator's will, with the consent of their founders. The same led to an uneven calculation of water prices in the distribution area. The development fee must be used to ensure uniform development in the service area primarily in the development in line with state investment programmes in the construction of public water supply buildings and public draining and waste water treatment. The development championship towards the readiness of the project documentation and the state of property legal relations. The connection fee may be introduced for the connection of buildings and other properties. The water economy funds are used to finance the construction of regulatory and protective buildings, to finance construction of buildings for basic melioration disposal, to finance the implementation of jobs and prevention measures, regular and extraordinary flood defences. Since the past two and a half years have provided sufficient resources for the intended purposes, the financing of the construction of water protection facilities and water contribution funds has been revised instead of State budget funds, which has so far been the case of water-bearing income of Croatian waters. The funds for water treatment will continue to be used to finance the implementation of operations and prevention measures, regular and extraordinary flood defences, construction of building for basic meliorisation disposal and construction of mixed water structures for melioration. The revenue from the water treatment fee is used according to the principles of solidarity and in the water needs championship. Water charges shall be used for the collection and management of water supply data and their use, control of the state of supply of water and take measures for their rational use, water research, water supply insurance, financing of construction of public water supply highways. Water protection charges shall be used to prepare water protection plans and organise their implementation, monitoring and quality of water quality and to take measures to protect them, finance state-of-the-art buildings, public disposal of waste water. For the protection of water, the change is that the basis for the collection of compensation for persons who release waste water, the amount of waste water or persons who affect or deliver water to public water supply buildings in the areas of the settlement without the construction of wastewater disposal and treatment facilities, the amount of water affected, instead of the quantities delivered through the public water supply system. It is also envisaged to systematically implement the principle of wage polluter for scattered pollution sources introduced in the already existing law. However, without providing for sublegal acts to implement it. The funds for gravel and sand compensation are used to finance jobs and measures to prevent flood defence, finance and recovery of water conditions of good water and water buildings created by the illegal extraction of gravel, sand and stone. Funding of maintenance of buildings for detailed Melioritional Disposal of Units of Regional and Regional Self-Government Units. The revenue from the Melioration discharge fee shall be used in accordance with the principle of solidarity and championship in the needs of the regional and regional self-government units. The fee for the melioration drain has not been charged so far and has not been charged, as the system of detailed melioration disposal over the past ten years has been devastrated, abandoned and still partially in mine suspected areas, and originally needed to bring it into functional condition. Since over the past two and a half years almost 40% of the system of detailed drain mellioration has been brought into operation, it is expected to continue regularly. The fee for the melioration disposal and the revenue of the budget of units of local, regional and regional self-government, shall be determined by the assembly of the units of the regional and regional self-government by its decision. A rule which will be provided for in more detail in the calculation and payment of the fee. The irrigation fee is used to finance the maintenance of buildings, to irrigate units of local and regional self-government. The revenue from the irrigation fee shall be used according to the principles of solidarity and championship in the needs of the built-up irrigation system. The irrigation fee has not been set yet, however, by implementing the national irrigation and management programme for agricultural land and water over the past three years, delivery conditions have been created for watering end-users to irrigate approximately 15,000 hectares, which is an increase of almost 67% compared to 2004 when only 9,000 hectares were irrigated. Compensation for irrigation and revenue of the budget of the units of the regional self-government. The bill provides for decentralisation of funding with clear competencies in the national, regional and local sectors. The units of the regional and regional self-government shall, by their decision, determine the amount of compensation for the melioration disposal and irrigation fees, and the resources of the compensations made shall be the revenue of the budget of the units of the regional self-government and shall be used to maintain those buildings. The community of the service area can introduce development compensation, and the same income is the community of the service area and is used to finance the construction of public water supply and wastewater. Finally, the local self-government unit can introduce a connection fee and is the same income as the local self-government unit and is used to finance and build public water supply and disposal and treatment of waste water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23666	Thank you very much. Furthermore, on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23667	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. They say that by entering the European Union, those who have already entered there are our neighbours and that is, from this close environment, the region, the Western and eastern Balkans, they say that everything has been accumulated. Well, it seems like it's our turn to say that we are ahead of the European Union's direct entry to make water more expensive for us as well. In which way and how this law is set out, it is European law and explained. "Run Savo, Dravo run, neither does the Danube lose its power." And I come from Slavonski Brod. Someone here mentioned who was having this regrettable affair with water pollution and heavy washing, etc., and the water is rolling, and the water is not good where the water loss in the water is 40%, and besides, the shopping company leads in Slavonski Brod to a city-owned business is positive, and more than positive. Despite the fact that the results of this business are positive with drinking water and today the grasses of the football stadiums in the city are sprayed and the streets have been washed and filled with drinking water tanks, a drinking water that can be praised by a small town in Western Europe. We know that in the German cities, I've been in a lot of them too, simple water from the water line is not recommended for drinking, but they're buying water and we're going to talk about it in that other law 214, but this time I'm talking about what it says here, and it's actually that I understand this law and the bill as water fees, like something about paying toll. We pay for the roads in the price of fuel, we pay for the registration of the vehicle, we pay when we get out on the highway again toll. Citizens, therefore natural and legal persons of the Republic of Croatia, and above all here I am talking about citizens, so they pay water contributions to natural persons. The water contribution in Article 6 shall be paid on construction of buildings. And now I wonder why. What is it that the water economy contributes to building a house? What gives a water economy to an investor who builds a house, and who builds a house knows how real it is and how much it costs, maybe except for some. It is explained in Article 12 that the revenue from the water contribution is used to finance the construction of regulatory and protective buildings, the construction of buildings for the basic melioration disposal, the implementation of jobs and measures of preventive, regular and extraordinary flood defence. And all of that also applies to the water treatment fee. There's no new explanation for paying these two fees. The same reason for the payment in point 1, i.e. the water contribution and in point 2 of the water treatment fee. And in the end, two new points were added, two new charges on the villa and this is a development fee and a view of the accession fee, and so far we haven't had a communal fee that included actually a water connection. In any case, I support the proposal of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce when it comes to ponds, therefore freshwater fishing, and to be added in water fees after point 9 of Article 5 and point 10 and supported by the Committee for the Use of Water for Water Protection in closed waters and that the height and method of payment of compensation is determined by a special regulation. Someone here said there are 100 water distributors in Croatia today. The following law, which will only come in line and I must mention Articles 83 and 89 in this law, will allow for more and more, and private water distributors. In charge of water treatment, the second fee is said to be paid on the surface of the land under buildings and temporary buildings if these buildings and temporary buildings are paid compensation for water treatment other than agricultural land. It's interesting that the water contribution is paid on the facility, so the house or the shed or I don't know what. And even if you have a yard, you have to pay a special fee again, especially for the house and especially for the yard and all that for flood protection, meliorization, etc. It's really like a citizen if every citizen reads this stuff, he'd have to ask himself why. Article 12 and Article 21 are therefore entirely identical, almost identical. Re-financing of operations, preventive measures, regular and extraordinary flood defences. And you see, this summer I was flooded in Slavonski Brod, 25, 30 centimetres of water broke into the basement after a lot of rain. I didn't call the water company to get that water out, I called the fire department and the utility company. It didn't occur to me to call a water company. I mean, I didn't know. And he says that this fee is enjoyed by the water economy of the Republic of Croatia, and I will call again when the law is in place, for sure, by a municipal enterprise or by a fireman. In a water protection fee, Article 29, 30, 31, I am surprised that here in that article, which states that bonds provide protection to persons who release wastewater and persons who produce or import mineral fertilisers and plant protection products. The companies involved in river shipping here are neither included in the saying nor in any reference. They weren't mentioned to anything. Thank God, they obviously do not pollute the ship’s rivers, nor do they release any wastewater, and perhaps it is good for their business that these laws are not covered by the article of this law. I don't know if they're elsewhere, but I read it, so I couldn't find it. In Brodo-Posavia County which is one of the major food producers, and in fact Croatia is happy, should be a happy country, should be because it has three world strategic products, which is food, water and energy. Oil and gas. So we have two, two wells in Slavonia, one in Podravina, one Djeletovci in Eastern Slavonia, and here as a region, and as a state, we don't actually have such an attribute of a rich and successful state, especially judging by this budget as dramatic as they like to say it has already become the modern wording, but indeed, a country that boasts and according to statistics is one of the wealthier countries in Europe and in the world of water capacities and Slavonia, in particular, unfortunately here we will experience that, given these to say the accusations of how it is called fees, contributes to Article 5 that I don't really want to disturb the public and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but it seems to me that this leads to a progressive collection of water precisely for what my colleague said that this contribution would be collected on the produced and not the water that was delivered. I'm sure there'll be more speakers here. When I said about Brodo-Posavia County, I meant the percentage of watered surfaces, the length of the canals of all categories, and then I have to say that this county, which is God's day for food production, has both a hilly and a lowly part, and it only watered about 0.2% of the surface of Brodo-Posavia County. We also have a pilot project "Davor Orubica" but unfortunately 18 years from the Croatian state's position on this issue was not concerned, and from the 2009 budget of the Republic of Croatia it seems to me that the shifts will be very, very small and to say minimal in this regard. We will clearly hear your answers, Mr. Secretary of State and your opinions after all our discussions, and then we will decide how to vote in connection with this proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23668	Thank you very much. A little late. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, here are the distinguished colleagues of MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23669	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This bill of law is an affidavit and yesterday or yesterday we had a debate on agricultural land, the Law on Agricultural Land and the Proposal for a Law on Golf Course, and then we will see the proposal for a Water Law is an exact example and we will stand up strong against it and inform the Croatian public that here and how to rob state property and how the inn of property belongs to all of us. Croatian waters have long existed in the Croatian legal system and in our organisational administration system as a state in the country. It's been a whole bunch of years. Croatian waters bear the name of Croatian water, and fewer are Croatian. And you need to know that and it can't be done without you. But we'll talk more closely about this at the next point. Now I want to tell you very precisely that this bill as our colleague said on behalf of the club we will not support and of course I will not personally, but for very concrete reasons, because the whole law is inconsistencies, unacceptable, introduces dangerous dualism and other legal systems. You are obviously not concerned with the Mining Act or the Law on Property and other real rights or the whole other set of laws because obviously Croatian waters have a special legal system that must obviously work and charge for it. But it won't work the way you imagined, no matter how many in this proposal, and I believe that they will soon see what it is about to oppose the adoption of that law, there is a constitutional court reaction waiting for us, but also those responsible, who are persistently alerted, must bear adequate responsibility. Because we have to affirm in our work an individual responsibility. There's no one behind any collective bodies to hide. We'll start institutionalizing this kind of responsibility because... bodies and within the work within individual bodies are well aware of whose responsibility it is because Croatia, apart from the economic crisis, is deeply shaken by the crisis of personal responsibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see, in the provision of Article 11, if you're talking about... You are demeaning the government because this has been planted on the government, we must now say in favour of it, it is prescribed that the Government will determine the compensation and then that the correction of the coefficient can also be made by the minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, you absolutely have a value disturbance, the minister is now above government, above Prime Minister Sanader, so what is it? And it's not just in one of those norms, it's in the other. Obviously something needs to be done that doesn't even know the government, it's absolutely unacceptable. We must be very careful to narrow down the space of possible corruption everywhere,... Then where are the great values. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the only thing left for Croatia is its forests, its waters, its agricultural land. And we won't let what happened in the '90s with social enterprises happen again with our most valuable and non-renewable resources. The example and how the Croatian state is peeled should be put to rest. And you've been personally warned about what's going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Furthermore, the water treatment fee, the government will also prescribe the amount of compensation but also the exemption. Here, there's no Minister's intervention here, but again at the water use fee again the same thing. The government regulations the amount of compensation, and then the minister corrects the government, from case to case athok, we can think by which criteria it does so and for whom it does so. It's inadmissible, I don't know who this came up with, and someone has to be responsible for this. You know? It's not that, the law didn't pass, it didn't pass. Well, these are dangerous things. It's not like that, as other laws, somewhere the deadline is like this, so you can get rid of it like this, you can get rid of it like that. Well, let the political option have this vision, that's just fine. A certain criminal political view, of course, depends on the party that is in power, we are absolutely different. But by this we can't distinguish, this is written in the Constitution, you can't, you can't set things differently. Now we're at that pearl, the gravel and sand fee. We recently passed the Law on concessions, Minister Schuker, those are his words when the law was passed, even incorporated in the evaluation itself, in the assessment of the state of the law. There will be no compensation, no concession will be made under this concession law, which is a roof law. That's how we brought it. There were several of our amendments that we asked for transparency and concessions, we partially succeeded, and we all voted unanimously. And now, after that law, we pass a whole series of laws that are contrary to the concession law. We have been particularly pressured by the European Union to pass this law, that this law is the most important thing in countering corruption and these other problems that are pressing us. And now there's a whole series of laws that don't matter let that law stand there alone but this whole lot specialises. No, I don't. In this law, something even more than that can be prescribed, which is not prescribed by the concession law, rather than by adjudicating the basic provisions. And what does the concession law say? And the fee for gravel and sand, and what's that? As some kind of well-intentioned reader of this manuscript, you might think it's some sort of fee, so it's usually being carried out. Pebble and sand are ore treasure, by definition, falling under the Law of... fall under the concession law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not possible to exploit the water in a different way. This would mean that we, ore treasure, when we dig in forests, will be the Law of the Forests, on agricultural land, because the treasure of gold can be found everywhere, therefore, all that is beneath the earth, so what will the Law of concessions do to us? Therefore, as it says, to read the whole provision, "the compensation for gravel and sand, the amount of compensation is prescribed by the administrative council of Croatian waters by its decision, with the consent of the minister, and according to the provision of Article 42, the income used for the recovery of illegal extraction of gravel, sand and stone. This provision is urgently to be thrown out of the law and we'll act like she's never been found. It's a minimum. Because there's enough theft of the mine treasure, we have a deficit, we wouldn't have it if we'd charged everything that's being exploited wrongly and how it's managed by state land that's illegally held by certain tourist companies in their property for 18, 15 years without the kuna and the dinars and the money and the kunas and the lipe, and now it's gotten into the mining treasure and here it's well-intentioned compensation for gravel and sand. ... It's another thing, that some fee is paid for it and after the concession, but you can't charge for gravel and sand to go past a public tender, past the law says which one says. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 86 provides that administrative supervision of Croatian waters... The Agency for the Regulation of Water Services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the exercise of public powers and under the laws and regulations adopted on the basis of which the Ministry is implementing. It's against the Law of Civil Service and Regiment. And, of course, the opposite is both the EU's state and legal gain, and this law bears exactly that mark. In addition, the provision of Article 87 provides that inspection supervision of legal and natural persons subject to the provisions of the Water Economy Financing Act shall be carried out by the Ministry’s horizontal inspection. This means that a horizontal inspection would monitor the collection of Croatian water revenues, however, it is also not acceptable because it is contrary to other regulations. So I won't vote for this law, this is still the first reading, if most will accept it, but in case it goes into second reading, it would be good if these provisions were no longer found. So we don't meet anywhere else, thank you very much. Because we will take all legal steps other than a constitutional suit and seek criminal legal protection for this attempt to take away what is left in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23670	Thank you very much. We should not threaten colleagues, some other places, this is the main place where laws are passed, where each of us has both the right and the possibility and the obligation to make his views known. And it's normal for most people to decide according to positive regulations. We have two applications for replicas, a distinguished colleague of the Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23671	Comrade Antičević, to your point that Croatian waters are state-owned I would add one more. In this line of work, they have a fat support of the logistics of the ministry. And now I'm going to tell you an example of what it looks like. Thus, the water supply of Kosnica along the Sava in the area of the town of Velika Gorica is one of the most important springs of drinking water to be exploited in the future. Zagreb County has not recently had any business dealing with it, because it is not in the description of its work. However, at the address of Croatian Waters, individuals from the Croatian Waters Zagreb County establish a municipal company that has no conditions to obtain a concession, because there is no technical, spatial, or human resources, nor any other conditions, and on the other hand a municipal company from Velika Gorica which distributes water, which already has a concession to extract water appears neatly on the concession and does not get it, but the state secret and no less than the director of Croatian Waters, which is also a member of the Zagreb County's Headship, announces that Croatian waters and the Ministry of Water Economy in October of this year gave a positive opinion that the non-existent phantom company is a concessionary at the Kosnički Vodakrpište. From where? How is that possible? It's a lawlessness, because a concession is granted to someone who doesn't meet even the basic conditions, and we have a conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23672	Thank you. The answer to the replica, please welcome fellow Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23673	Yes, I know, I'm familiar with this case and I'm surprised to believe that the authorities are competent to know about it and that in an adequate way they will react especially if the government really means what it says we have to end corruption and organised crime. Here we are today, or at the beginning, today is something that has recently been published by our media. But as early as this year was reported, the media reported 11 gravel thieves. But you see, there is only one mining inspector in the entire Zagreb County, along with the City of Zagreb. Last year, three criminal cases, six criminal charges were filed. In fact, the fact is that only in one area, so the hill in Jankomir, Lučko, Blat, Novi Čič was dug up by 110000 cubic metres of gravel, although the penalties for the illegal extraction of gravel from the company, I am talking about, I answer to you and the persons, therefore legal amounts from 40 to 250000 kuna data on the perpetrators whether they paid the fines the public failed to find out. Namely, by digging up mineral raw materials as the media reports and what we all know here is the second economic branch in Croatia right behind tourism, and certainly the first of the illegally acquired property of individuals. The illegals dig up about 300,000 cc's of gravel a year. From what? As the annual earnings are estimated at 200 million kunas, and this is another pebble on the rivers where it is now intended to legalise this bountiful and clean water either past or make it possible to pass the concession, past the positive regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23674	Thank you. Second application for the replica, dear colleague Hanzek. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23675	I will briefly just replicate actually to my colleague Marinović, and since I was late to present my colleagues when he talked about the water contribution, I will actually rely more on it. In fact, the Constitutional Court announced yesterday a decision on these phantom fines or any parking tickets. This leads to the fact that the Constitutional Court will obviously begin to deal with some of these things where we pay taxes. When a colleague talks about water contribution is really tax tax, it will indeed be a problem with water systems that have been built for 50 years and have been built with the parlour pipes that have lasted. But until we make substituting lines, we can't replace these waters. I won't explain it further to those who know. It's known where we are and what it is, and it takes time for those who don't know to explain themselves. But I'll tell you next. The water contribution the government passed to the vice president signed, probably did not dare let the prime minister sign the first version, so it was reduced by 50%. On a facility of 3 and a half thousand square meters in the city of Zabok, a municipal contribution to the city, to ensure that the city provides all infrastructure, to develop an economy. The investor will pay 120,000 kuna, and a water contribution from which he won't even get a canal closure and stretch his legs, tear his legs off to get the right to shut down a channel that is no longer in service of 840,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23676	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague colleague, Dragutin Lesar, also applied for the debate. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First, I must express regret that, together with Mr. Krmek, the secretary of state here today, there is no Mr. Husarić, director of Croatian Waters, because this law is written about Croatian Waters. And this law here was supposed to defend and explain the author of that law. If I'm wrong, then I must refer my criticism to your address, but it seems to me that this came from Croatian waters. In the light of the law on page three, the papers in the law are a fee for development and compensation for accession. It's been paid so far, only something a little different has been called, they've been subject to other regulations, so they're not newspapers in terms of obligations. But there will be newspapers in increasing the amount, so it is indeed a pity, Mr. Secretary of State, that you did not force gentlemen from Croatian waters to simulate their impact on the average price of drinking water for the public after the adoption of this law. Namely, I know that all distributors don't have the same price of water, that it's terribly different. But you could have taken one with the lowest, one with the middle and one with the highest price to get a review of what would happen with the price of water cubicity after the adoption of this law. This is the most important information, and everything else is the lamentations or hidden moves that will lead to the collection of the price of water, as well as some terrible monopolies. Article 5 sets out that water contributions, water treatment fees, water use charges, water protection and gravel and sand charges, such as revenue from Croatian waters, are to be entered into the water charges. Take care now, the fee on gravel and sand are the revenues of Croatian waters. Therefore, gravel and sand are declared by the ownership of Croatian waters. It goes on, the compensation for the melioration drain and the irrigation fee are the revenues of regional self-government, if I read it correctly, the development fee is the income of the community of service area, whatever that means, međimurje's water, for example, is it with me? Or toothpicks, you got water in Zabok, you got it? And the ninth is the fee for joining which is the municipality's or city's income, local self-government. Now, how many municipalities and cities lose by losing part of the revenue from the title of the Pebble and Sand fee that has gone so far, and now goes to Croatian waters. Not a word of reason. Easy, easy... Take it easy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know how to do it. In order for us to have peace, then you've pegged the Polish roads and calmed the captains so there won't be a rebellion against those procedures in the waterways that are, I won't use too heavy words. Article 6 Water contribution shall be paid on construction of buildings. Water contribution is paid on construction of buildings. Sports hall, hospital, manufacturing hall, parking lot, playground, handball playground at school, all these are buildings. Is the golf course a building? Is the golf course a building? It's not. It's not. If you don't mind my debate, colleague, go smoke one on the terrace. Article 13 of the Water Regulation fee shall be paid on all real estate, except for agricultural land, so to school playgrounds and playgrounds. I'm just quoting the provisions of the law. In local self-government units that account for communal compensation. The charge for water treatment can be entrusted to local self-government units. Later in the provisions, he says he gets 5% of the bill. How can definition be trusted to interpret? Who decides that? Who can believe that? Does the municipality have to? Does he have to take it? What is this provision in the law that can be trusted? If the unit of local self-government wants, then Croatian waters can be trusted. He can't be trusted. You have to be clear because you can't make such a provision into the authority of local self-government, and who makes that decision, and why do you prescribe in the law that the fee is 5%? Why don't you go to the IRS? What, there's a more expensive charge? So if your taxpayers are taking more, you're not asking them to do it for 5% on the same terms. So give it to the IRS to collect that fee for you then. Why are the municipalities harassing with that? With a definition that's arbitral. In addition, the water use fee shall be paid by covering, drawing and using water and using water forces, except for the general use of water, but the deposit bonds shall also be those using drinking water, Article 23. Does the owner of a private well in his backyard that draws drinking water have to pay for the use of water? The basis for the calculation is the amount of water used, the wells must be placed on the wells if they want to. Article 40 of the basic Regulation for the calculation of the duty on gravel and sand is the amount of the spatial meter taken out of gravel or sand. Peasant fee and sand are charged and charged by Croatian waters. This is the arrival of Croatian waters. Now explain this to me. In the area of Međimurje County in the next 6 months, Croatia's waters plan to dig up a million cc's of gravel on Mura and on the Drava to the mouth of Mura in Drava. For God's sake, flood defense. Who's going to control the billing of the amount dug up? And you're telling me that Croatian waters will pay themselves that fee for that gravel? Of course not. Of course not. By this law, you have allowed some part of Croatia's mineral wealth to be declared by the ownership of Croatian waters, you have given them the right to use the price on the market without competition and without concession alone by determining the amount of compensation to exploit this mining wealth, when gravel and sand are sold by means of a monopoly and you are fighting against the "mother of the mafia". I know that competition does not like these in Croatian waters. The Shoder Mafia is a colleague of the gang, the Schoder Mafia. So far, Croatia's leaders have been fighting the mob's brother-in-law with inspections, and now they've settled it by law because they don't like competition. There's no way two mobs can make a deal. That's the consequence of this law. And so in the second reading, I ask you nicely, Mr. Secretary of State, let the Director of Croatian Waters come here before the Parliament to answer our questions. I know that much of it you don't know and you don't have to know. It's his vault, not yours. He's responsible for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23678	Thank you. We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here are my fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Lesar injured the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and that is Article 214 paragraph 5 and 6 because in his speech he defamed the other MP and by this injury I ask you to give him a warning because he has already done so on several occasions and... /The speaker has been turned off, so it is back on. Don't shut me out, 'cause it obviously doesn't suit you. Because when there's an insult on the other side, it's not right, and when something's said on this side, it's supposed to be okay. I ask you to give him a warning, because all the conditions are obtained by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23680	Can't hurt the Rules of Procedure on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm... Well, I've actually warned you about my colleague, Lesar, because indeed one lady is sent out of the assembly bench to go smoke, and I don't think the cavaliers are supposed to let me, but the grill of the debate can also at some point bring the same as now in the adventure I believe that she'll forgive you because it's also a time of forgiveness. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's not argue any further now. Branko Box, go ahead and discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23681	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Any cash expenditure which charges a spatial meter of water supplied to end-users and which is in direct or indirect connection with the protection of its quality and quantity and which is made possible by the construction and management of water infrastructure that enables it to be exploited or released in accordance with an ecologically acceptable standard, shall be the price of water. The prices of water in Croatia range from 2.5 to 16 kuna per metre of cubic water delivered, resulting from different approaches to price formation. Within that price there is a constant fee for the use of water and water protection fees, which together amount to 70 per metre cubic and are equal for all citizens. Water prices must be formed according to the same economic criteria that allow compensation for all maintenance costs, system functioning, necessary development and should not include irrationality in municipal activities and components which are neither directly nor indirectly in the water management function and water services. In the water sector of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the vast majority of European Union countries outside the water price, protection from harmful water action, melioration and meliorative irrigation are financed. The adoption of the Water Economy Financing Act is primarily necessary in order to bring legislation in the water economy into line with European Union legislation and to ensure sufficient resources to ensure the implementation of water protection measures in order to achieve the good state of all water in water areas. The new Act on the financing of the water economy retains all existing water compensations but is partially complemented by the purposes and partly modified accounting methods. The papers proposed by the adoption of this law are development and accession fees. The development fee is used to finance construction of public water supply buildings and public sewage buildings, treatment of waste water. It must be used to ensure uniform development in the service area, the development championship in accordance with state investment programmes in the construction of public water supply buildings and public sewage and wastewater treatment buildings, the development championships according to the degree of preparation of documentation projects and other preconditions for the start of investment in the construction of the system. Where, in order to protect springs in sanitary protection zones, specific increased investment is required in public water supply buildings or public wastewater disposal buildings, the community of the service area may introduce development compensation in the service area to meet these needs. The development fee shall be calculated by means of a water service account and shall be the income of the service area community. A connection fee may be introduced for the connection of buildings and other properties, if the connection of other properties is permitted by general conditions of supply of water services to buildings and public water supply and public disposal of waste water. The investor or owner of the building or other real estate and the connection fee shall be used to finance the construction of public water supply buildings and public sewage buildings and to clean up waste water in the unit of local self-government that makes them available. The opening and income of both fees was possible and so far in accordance with the existing Law on the Communist Economy, however, they were not explicitly legally defined but prescribed by the will of the operatives, with the consent of their founders. The same led to an uneven calculation of water prices in the distribution area. As the reform and establishment of the municipal sector under the new Water Act provides for a transitional period of three years for the award of development and compensation for accession in accordance with the new Water Economy Financing Act is foreseen for a period of 6 months from the establishment of the service areas. The adoption of the Water Economy Financing Act is necessary in view of the introduction of new provisions necessary for the provision of resources to achieve an effective, economic and guaranteed standard of water services in public water supply and disposal and wastewater treatment activities, which have been taken over in accordance with the adopted Water Management Strategy under this law under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23682	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague representative, Nevenka Marinovic, also applied for the debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23683	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have already heard on several occasions the need to adopt this law, which means harmonising legislation from the water economy with the legislation of the European Union, as well as providing additional means to ensure the implementation of water protection measures in order to achieve the good state of all water in the water area. And it doesn't work without some new and old and larger fees, because it's simply impossible to achieve all of this without the price staying the same or lower. The proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy lays down the sources of funding resources and, in particular, the water compensation including the obligation to pay, the obligors, the base, the method of accounting, the determination of the height, the purpose of spending those funds, the exercise, the statute of limitations and other issues related to the implementation and use of these funds shall include all that is necessary in order to achieve the objective of this law. The proposed law retains the meaning of all existing water charges, they are partially complemented, their purposes are complemented, but partly and changed the method of reckoning. As a result of the takeover of public water supply and public sewage and wastewater treatment in the water economy, the proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy provides for two new, i.e. two fees, and I will say something about them. The opening and income of both fees was possible and so far in accordance with the existing Law on the municipal economy, however, they were not legally defined but prescribed by the operator's will, with the consent of their founders. For this reason, there was an uneven calculation of the prices of water services in the distribution area and in order to avoid this, this part is changed. The provisions of the new Water Act relating to public water supply, public sewage and wastewater treatment shall enter into force on 1 January 2012, and a transitional period of three years for the reform and establishment of the municipal sector and a time limit for the regulation of development and compensation for accession on 30 June 2012. The development fee can, therefore, be determined that the community of the service area can be determined to at the price of public water supply, the price of public disposal of waste water and the price of cleaning of wages and development fees. Where, in order to protect the springs in sanitary protection zones where special needs are required, where specific increased investment is required in public water supply buildings or public wastewater disposal buildings, the community may not but may introduce a compensation for development in the service area to meet these needs. Income is used to finance construction of public supply and public wastewater disposal buildings. The development fee must be used to ensure uniform development in the service area primarily in the development in line with state investment programmes in the construction of public water supply buildings and public draining and waste water treatment primarily in the development towards the readiness of the project documentation and in the state of property legal relations. This is well defined because of the potential braking of certain projects that are ready and are waiting, or waiting for priorities. This fee shall be calculated by means of a water service bill and shall be the income of the community of the service area. The amount of the development fee per unit of water service delivery and the rate of water price shall be determined by the Community of the service area by a decision on the calculation and collection of the development fees. A connection fee may be introduced for the connection of buildings and other properties if the connection of other properties is permitted, of course, by general conditions of supply of water services to public water supply and public disposal of waste water and income are units of local self-government. The amount of compensation shall be determined by the representative body of the units of local self-government by its decision and that is the detailed way in which this is determined. Here you would mention these eyewitnesses' fees are said to be public books. Although Article 83 provides that the Minister of Rules is more detailed in this area, this public is not clear to me or to me. Which means the eyewitnesses are a public book fee, so here's what I expect from the secretary of state might be a little clarification. Article 17 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 provides for the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Maybe that part of why at least once a week and whether it's common and how it's feasible and whether it's a particular problem for local or regional self-government units. Since this law is also in the first reading, there is room for repairs of certain provisions, but I certainly support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23684	Thank you very much, colleague. Further to the debate, distinguished counterpart Kreso Filipovic applied. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23685	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we can see from this part of the debate that it really is two extremely important legislative proposals. It is one that regulates the legal status of water, water goods and water buildings, etc. and the second is the one that regulates the sources of funds for the financing of the water economy’s operations, in particular water compensation, payment obligations and obligors, the basis and method of accounting, the determination of the amount and the purpose of the spending of those funds, the performance and limitation, and other issues related to the achievement and use of those funds. It is therefore a proposal for a law on water and a proposal for a law on the financing of a water economy currently under discussion. The current Water Economy Financing Act was adopted in 1995, so at the same time as the Water Act, which is quite understandable and logical, and during the next period it experienced several changes and additions that were published in the "National Journals" that I do not now list them in order. The principles on which the financing of the water economy is based and under the applicable law, but also under the proposal of the new law, are clearly laid down in Article 3(3). The proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy is based on the basic principle of user pay pollutants. This principle, which is also highlighted in the Water Law proposal, specifically means that funds for the financing of the water economy are provided from water charges paid by water system users, i.e. water pollutants and from the price of water services paid by the users of those services. In accordance with the applicable Act on the financing of the water economy, water financing funds are provided from the State budget from water charges such as water contributions, water use fees, water protection fees, water management fees, sand and gravel drawback fees, Melioration draining and irrigation fees, then the budget of the units of the regional and local self-government and other sources of funds. It is important in this section to mention that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2005 Water Economy Financing Act created assumptions for the adoption of a series of implementing rules that circle the formal legal whole and thus created the preconditions for the regular and stable financing of the water economy. The basic reasons for the adoption of the new Water Economy Financing Act are, on the one hand, in the need to bring national legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union and the need to provide sufficient resources for the implementation of water protection measures with a view to achieving the good condition of all water and in all water areas, on the other hand, due to the reform of the municipal sector provided for in the proposal for a Water Law. The proposed Act on the financing of the water economy establishing the sources of funds for the financing of the water economy and other details relating to their collection and use, which I have already talked about, retains all the sources of funding prescribed by the applicable law and any existing water charges which have only been partially supplemented by the purpose and the partially amended method of accounting. However, due to the takeover of public water supply, public draining and treatment of wastewater in the water economy area, which will take place as part of the reform of the municipal sector provided for in the proposal for a Water Act. The proposal for a Water Economy Financing Act also provides for two new fees. So, development and accession fees. Development fee may be introduced by the service area communities to be organised after the Government of the Republic of Croatia has established the limits of a particular service area in accordance with the proposal of the Water Act and would be paid at the price of public water supply, wastewater disposal and treatment prices. Compensation will be introduced in cases of increased investment needs in public procurement systems, public disposal of waste water, and with the aim of equating, or even development in the entire service area, when it comes to the possibility of using these services and developing fees shall be calculated through the accounts for water services and revenues of the community of the service area which, at the same time, determine the amount of compensation. Next, the accession fee under Article 66 of the Law will be able to introduce units of local self-government for the connection of buildings and other properties to public water supply and public sewage. This fee is the income of units of local self-government whose representative body, by its decision, determines the amount of compensation and how it is calculated and charged. The funds resulting from the accession fee shall be used for the same purposes as the development fee. These two fees could, it is important to stress this strongly, even so far, in accordance with the Law on the municipal economy, but they were not explicitly established, so they were prescribed by the operator's will, of course, with the consent of their founder, which led to an unequal calculation of water prices in certain distribution areas. Since the provision of the law, the new Water Law which regulates this area, and due to the high requirements foreseen by the reform of the municipal sector, enter into force only on 1 January 2012. Therefore, a transitional period of 3 years is foreseen. The new Water Economy Financing Act set 30 June 2012 as a time limit for prescribing development and accession fees. I will only briefly refer to the compensation for the melioration drain and the irrigation fee that the income of the units of the district, or regional self-government, has not been called for justifiable reasons so far. These fees shall be paid to agricultural land of the units of the regional self-government in which the buildings for that purpose have been built, and shall be paid by the owners or other legal owners of the agricultural land. The reasons why these fees have not been paid, on the one hand are the degradation, the devastation of the system of detailed melioration disposal, and on the other hand because there were no more significant watering options... on systematic buildings for that purpose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, however, opportunities have changed significantly. Since almost 40% of the system has been incarcerated in the past few years and work continues, as well as the implementation of the national irrigation and management programme for agricultural land and water has created preconditions for the delivery of water for water supply to end-users by about 15 thousand hectares of agricultural land, representing an increase of 67% compared to 2004. I would like to give a sort of commendation to the minister and his team here, because there have been different opinions here, but every project needs to start to end it and to finish it. And finally, I hope that there won't be that black scenario as well as here on many occasions highlighted, after this law comes into force, because I believe that the proposer of this law will also accept all the constructive and correct proposals that they could hear through this debate. And for that I will personally support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23686	Thank you very much, colleague. It is up to the debate to discuss the application of the distinguished colleague, Vlatko Podnar. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I will start with another law that covers 46% of the Republic of Croatia, and it is the Law on the Forests, and Article 3(2) says the general useful functions of the forest are, among other things, these are the most important protection of soil from erosion of water and wind. These are generally useful functions of the forest. Balance of water relations with landscapes, and prevention of floods and high water waves, water purification, deforestation through forest soil, and supply... streams and springs with drinking water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't want to pick up the other ones now. And also Article 47(4), which says and says that forest roads must be maintained and used in such a way as not to pollute the waterways, cause erosion, preserve the sources of drinking water, etc. And that's also the regulation on forest regulation that the sources in the forest must be marked and maintained. Therefore, I am interested in the fact that in Article 13 of this law, where the compensation for the regulation of water has not been left out except for agricultural land and forest land, because while we are already talking about compliance with the European Union, I know that, for example, in Austria, this water compensation is paid to the Austrian state forests to which it comes. When, again, when I attach myself to this Article 13, it is said that agricultural land will not be paid for water treatment, because it is paid for all real estate, except for agricultural land, which is fine, because when we look at our farms that are costing them, then this additional cost of water compensation, water control fees must have increased and accumulated production. But now that part of maintaining a third and fourth-row channel belongs to local self-government. What about those municipalities that are large on the surface and have a large agricultural land, a large length of canals. From what source will he solve it? There is no compensation for the arrangement, except for the 5% you have made there that local self-government has the right to retain, i.e. after returning Croatian water. I don't think that's gonna hold. And again, there will be floods and we will talk again about how no third and fourth-row channels are being maintained, because units of local self-government except for what little they get for agricultural land fees simply won't have it for this activity. State representative Djakic corrected that one incorrect allegation where he said it could all be solved about water supply systems, that there was no loss of 50% of water. It can be solved where there is will and understanding, but in particular in this city I know that about 400,000 cc's of water are lost that go somewhere else. Probably because water supply is old, or old pipelines, but that's why it doesn't stop the mayor from walling up some walls by the river and not taking care of it, so I don't know how it got Mr. Agent information that everything in the Virovitic-Podrav County was arranged when I know it wasn't. Is now my correction to an incorrect quote which, unfortunately, is not true. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23688	Thank you very much. We've got two more applications to discuss. First of all, dear colleague Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23689	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is this law that we have today on the financing of a water contribution that we see that it aims to establish exactly the sources of funding for jobs and purposes that are related to the Water Act. As the sources of funds are visible, either from the state budget, through those water charges that were listed here, 7 are now 9, through the budget of the regional and local self-government units. We see that this is a compliance with European laws, so it is necessary to bring it in line, and with the goal of achieving the good condition of all water in water areas. Why does it matter? So I think it's clear that today in the world there's a little water, especially water that's drinking and healthy, although when you look at our country from space, it looks like a blue ball and it turns out that the water has a lot of it. Waters are many, but we must say that water is mostly seawater, therefore it is not usable, and what drinking waters we have in the rivers and lakes is mostly the water that is drinking and healthy in the glaciers that are in the poles. Thus, water is one of the essential elements, normal for life's most important. Croatia is a relatively rich country with water that we must preserve, but at the same time we must preserve the economy used by this water, which exists and which generates that income from that water. In this particular work, I would mention about one of the important economies, which is freshwater fishing, which in today’s time as media is exclusively used by rainwater, snow, for its production. It is then returned to the water system in the same or better condition. I think that this is exactly what we have some ten-year analysis of the competent state institutions, and that is why I believe that this water used by this freshwater fisheries and these fees should be discussed in a different way. I therefore believe that the second reading should be corrected for these water fees in the sense that freshwater fishing is free from these water charges. What's that about? For this reason, primarily because the countries that are competing with us in the production of freshwater fish in their countries are exempt from paying water compensation, because this sector cannot bear the burden of paying all these fees. With us, these loads are constant and very heavy and that's exactly why and since '90. The years when we had 12,000 acres, it fell to the use of these ponds at 6,000 acres. Thus, the fish area where that fish was produced was reduced by half. And what normally affected the biodiversity of protection as well as the disappearance of certain swamp birds that had particularly valuable habitats in such poly-intense economic ponds. This should also be done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period of office of 2008 to 2011 forecasts that it will be working to reduce the water costs for freshwater ponds. Therefore, in addition to this national strategy that we recently had related to the biodiversity of the Republic of Croatia and in such a document is also done. Normally and certain international obligations undertaken both by signing and ratification of a number of international conventions in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia indicate that such spaces should be maintained. freshwater fisheries also have one perspective of greater development, regional development, rural development, hence sustainability in areas where we want people to be, to deal with production and to live. What's also interesting is that we, especially before, and now through fishing, have been able to achieve a positive net foreign exchange inflow through freshwater. So in this work we have a great perspective, we have people, we have insurance and the market, and that is why we think that such one production should allow it to develop better, because exactly the countries I talked about, such as the European Union, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Germany, the Netherlands, Bulgaria, Romania, do not have these water benefits, and they are our direct competitors. Even in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, these fees are not paid. And another thing that is related to these fees and which are also spoken of, these are compensations for melioration drains and melioration fees and irrigation fees. I think that both fees that should be charged as such are also important for the development of this economy. Here is Mr Filipovic earlier said that it is said that 40% of the network of this canal is arranged, I think it is unfortunately not true, because what happens in a slightly larger rain is that our Slavonic fields are swimming and when there is no rain then there are great droughts. Therefore, this canal network and irrigation net, for meliorations that are timely at the time and combinations that have maintained it then and the large surfaces that were it was still abandoned and not put into operation and which is very important. The second thing is the question of irrigation fees, the state and colleague of Hope said in the introduction that we do not say it is almost invisible to us because the percentage that is irrigated is so miserable and small that we do not need to mention it. And I think in the end that we have here just in one case and another a lot more work to do before we start charging. Therefore, it is good to charge and ask for your fees but it is necessary to see that we make those who will be able to charge you and pay you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23690	Thank you very much, colleague. And the final application for the hearing, the distinguished colleague, Agent Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23691	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. I would just like to briefly point out one illogicality that happens in financing water supply on Croatian islands and for which more than 10 million kuna is foreseen in this year's budget, slightly less than last year but still about 10 million kuna. Thus, the Island Law mentions the possibility and so far has been exploited by subsidising water for those islands that are not connected to the land’s water network, so that they do not have their own waternet but rather water is driven by tanks in some way. And since this is about first reading, I would suggest that these special provisions be included in this law, so that they be rewritten because of this. However, there is a situation that we have three types of ways of resolving this issue. One thing is that the water has merged with land water, which is a quality solution. We have the possibility of delivering water in some other way to the tanks. However, we have some islands that have their own water supply network sources on the island and they have been brought in, in particular, about Vis Island which has been brought into an unfair position because it has no right to subsidise this from the Island Act like those co-financed islands, so what water they get from the tanks. I asked what your difference was to land, so what makes you special to other units of local self-government on land, and I got an answer that makes sense to me. So we get water from the river Cetina for example and the river Cetina is as known is located on the surface of the ground, while on the island of Vis the water draws with 150 meters deep, it is the only possible source on that island. And only for electricity so that these pumps can work annually is spent about a million kunas, which I find unfair that it is carried by a municipal company or local self-government. So, for drillings with 150 meters deep, only electricity is paid a million kunas. This is about 4 thousand inhabitants, as if they were paying 250 million kuna in the city of Zagreb. This is paid through increased water prices, paid by guests and the highest domestic population. I think, Mr. Secretary of State, that this could be introduced, the local self-government has already written it, and maybe it could be incorporated into this law in a second reading. Thus, the solution is that this type of water supply is co-financed in accordance with those units of local self-government in which water is co-financed under the Island Act where there is no water network from its sources. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23692	Thank you very much. Does the Proposer want a final? Here you go. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23693	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I want to start by saying given a series of very high-quality and constructive discussions we will normally get them, we will also analyse them and prepare meanings and answers and possible alternatives related to the next reading. But I want to look back on a few important things where I find misunderstandings in my view. First of all, I would like to say something about these fees that are the income of cities, municipalities, or service areas, or county. I'd like to say that the Water Economy Financing Act, so it was passed here in this High House in 1995, and by 2005, there was no need for its additions or amendments. In 2005, we adopted amendments and additions to comply with the European Union Water Framework Directive. I'm here to say that these three fees, so their purpose is extremely important. It depends normally on the size of cities and municipalities' budgets, how many end-users and citizens are in these areas. But what matters most is their purpose, so where these money is spent on these fees. Here I want to say and attach myself to this second point which will be behind the Water Act is an extremely important agency for the regulation of water services precisely for the purpose of controlling these three fees, meaning what the revenues of the county, cities and municipalities or service areas are to control their purpose. Why? We heard here today the great Gorica was mentioned. We know that the municipal company in Velika Gorica went bankrupt. Why, for what reason? For reasons precisely because they purposely spent money intended for a specific purpose, or for the construction of a water supply system or for the construction of a disposal system. I also want to say here that control of all water services and regulation of standards which is very important we will introduce order and what we have also heard here today will not happen that we have the price of water from 2 kuna to 18 kuna. I don't think that's logical, and that's exactly the part where this law clearly defines it. I want to say the same thing here about the topic that was used here today and that's the water use fee. I would like to reiterate the compensation for the use of water as regards public water supply is in line with the Water Framework Directive. We have to take care of the water. So we can't let hundreds of thousands of cc's of water drain from the underground and normally go further underground or anywhere else without normally taking care of it. I want to make it clear here that citizens, users, will not pay more compensation for the use of water or for the protection of water. Why? For what reason? Because in the model that we have made, the transitional period of 5 years will be offered and money will be provided means that the losses in the waterway and also I have to say in the sewer systems. Why? Because taking care of the water that is our future means we must simply take care of water in accordance with the Water Framework Directive. I also want to say that the average losses within EU countries are somewhere between 10% and 12%. Unfortunately, they are much larger, and these are justified because of the fact that we have both war destruction and various other difficulties, so that the water economy in that part has been in a particularly watery or sewerage network in a state that needs to be properly reconstructed. To this end, the government of the Republic of Croatia launched 22 regional projects. Of which, 8 regional water pipelines where we have provided 2.45 billion kuna to build public water supply systems. These systems are designed precisely because all of these areas, all of these small plumbings that have so far had their own well, their pump facility that has a lifetime means that it must be re-adapted after 20 years or 25 years and absolutely know what that means for a small municipality when it must provide money means for the drilling of a new well or for the construction of a new facility. I'm here to say that just by building these regional water lines we're going to solve and the question of water loss that have been really big, huge so far, and also through the programs, we're going to actually provide money for the resolution of losses that I'd like to add that so far we've made 12 pilot projects out of 127 municipal companies and here for you and for yours, and actually for the general public, I want to say that in those 12 means the water lines that we've been working on the recovery of losses that we've come to data that with minimal investment, it's about anywhere between 500 and 600 thousand kuna per system, which we can say is really not much. So we've come from the control system that the losses are down 18%. I also want to make it clear here that in these 12 pipelines we've come to the data that about 15% of the water is being stolen. So it just doesn't, actually it doesn't charge. So there are illegal connections and water is not paid, and in this way we want to make it clear and encourage municipal companies to actually secure money for the resolution of losses and they are also normal to ensure that, in accordance with their plan for the resolution of losses in their utility, they have to resolve all these issues. We also think that it's consistent with the plan that we've made that in the next five years it means that the losses can be reduced within 15% to 20%. There's something else I'd like to say about the sand compensation or the gravel. I think it's absolutely clear that if something positive was done somewhere then it was done here for a reason because now all these competitions are done through public competitions or concessions. It is therefore also necessary before the publication of the concessions all that is necessary for that purpose to include an environmental impact study, i.e. complete documentation relating to the concession given to the exploitation, use of sand or gravel. And finally I want to add here that we have made a simulation of how much this law will affect the price of water or water services and here I want to make it clear that there will be no increase based on the provisions of this law that are in your benches today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23694	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23695	Proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 204. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law.". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find this conclusion accepted by the majority of votes, 72 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 27 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23696	We move on to the following law, which is: - Water law proposal, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 214 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was held: the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on the Economy. We received a report from the board's meeting on the benches at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23697	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's a brief explanation of the draft law on water in front of you in your assembly benches. First of all, I would like to say that we fully comply with this law with the Framework Directive on the waters of the European Union and the other nine relevant water directives that are important for the water economy. I'm here to say that this law defines our activities with regard to public water supply, disposal, wastewater treatment. Also in the part of the protection against the harmful effects of water or irrigation. This law fully implements integrated water management. At first I want to say here are some basic features of this law. First and foremost, this law excludes the possibility of privatising water, water systems, or water resources. Also, this law of the Law on the municipal economy brings part of the public supply, i.e. disposal and treatment of waste water, and thus creates conditions for implementing the two most difficult directives. The first is the Water for Drinks Directive, which weighs 1.8 billion euros and is also the 3 billion-euro municipal waste water directive. Also, as I said earlier, we will also establish a water regulation agency that will control all water services in the Republic of Croatia and also guarantee their standard and their quality. I want to point out here that this law will set up the Water Institute. So far, Croatia has not had an institution dealing with water issues and what I want to say is that here we will finally get the Water Institute, a scientific, professional body, and an institution that will deal with all the issues that are important for the water economy. Finally, I would like to say that this Water Law fully implements the water management strategy, that is, everything we have brought in it, and especially what is most important. It means that it is provided together with the Water Economy Financing Act somewhere around €53 billion for all the activities that we need in the matter of water, and to come to the average that is now within the developed EU countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23698	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. Regional development? There isn't. Protecting the environment? The economy? Thank you very much. Then we'll go to the debate at the MPs' clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished colleague of MP Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23699	Thank you, dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, or representative of the government. At the very beginning of the presentation on the Water Law proposal, I would like to say that the club of representatives and representatives of the SDP will not support this bill in the first reading. The reason we won't support this bill has much, and I'll try to highlight some of them. First of all, although Article 3 of the Law we are discussing today says water is a common good that, because of its natural properties, they cannot be owned by anyone. Waters as a general good have special protection of the Republic of Croatia. This provision of the law in the later text of the law has been perverted and denied several times and it is therefore evident that the proposer, which is the Ministry of Regional Development and the Government towards water and water wealth, which our country is abounding with our great happiness, does not relate with the due respect that water as a strategic resource, as a fundamental prerequisite for life without any doubt deserves. To illustrate this, I will remind you of the current water and water management situation in Croatia. Unfortunately, inadequate treatment of waste water is the second biggest problem of environmental protection in Croatia. This specifically means that we have an inadequate system or even a lack of wastewater management system. In Croatia, 60% of the population has no sewage connection, and sewerage is a basic prerequisite for the construction of wastewater treatment systems. Uncleaned wastewaters both those communal and those industrial cause major and permanent soil pollution, and the pollution of extremely valuable sources of groundwater that are our strategic resource, or should at least be. Although research has been carried out in continental Croatia has proven the presence of a large amount of high-quality mineral water, some of the sources are thousands of years old and the export of water from Croatia is negligible, and when there is water it is exported as raw materials in tanks and tanks, and not as a final product, the brand by which Croatia should be known in the world. However, the state's irresponsibility towards water does not stop as a strategic resource, so in many cities in Croatia, the losses from the water network amount to a scandalous 40%. In addition, the population of Croatia is horrified about the importance of water protection as an extremely important resource, and this is seen from the daily conduct of the vast majority of the Croatian population. The population, despite the existence of taps that are easy to stop the flow of water when washing hands, teeth, dishes, etc., does not use that possibility. Many citizens and citizens today produce various waste oils that irreversibly pollute millions of liters of water. It is regrettable that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not recognise the importance of education of the population on importance and responsible behaviour, and responsible water consumption as a priority political issue. Under HDZ, no public campaign has been implemented to draw the public's attention to this extremely significant problem. What we can expect because of this irresponsible behaviour of the government is a recent blow to the budgets of the population, i.e. a major increase in water prices. It is unfortunately a modus operand of this government, i.e. financial discipline of the population, not education and resource savings. In addition, should we mention daily examples of unscrupulous extraction of gravel from the troughs of our rivers that irretrievably pollute our underground waters, so - called underground waters. the strategic resource of the 21st century. The fact is that we are constantly witnessing the urban development of cities that are constantly increasing and now 50% of the Croatian population is living in them, and thus the need for building materials taken from nature is constantly increasing. A harmful effect on the environment that causes so-called gravel and other practices are almost always large scales. Unfortunately, it is not crucial that such practices are made more or less advantageous by unconscious individuals. It is the opening of early water layers in this way, a horizon allowing direct introduction of pollution into the underground, with the help of state structures that are lurking in both eyes of such illicit practices. Unless there is an actual political will to effectively inspect by stopping looking through the fingers of different concessionaries and those who illegally extract sand and gravel, unless there is a will to conduct thorough and uncompromising investigations, monetary and prison sanctioning crimes that are wrongly applied to the environment, local populations and the national economy, which is unfortunately evident from this Water Law proposal, I fear that we cannot look at the future with optimism. For all things previously said, unfortunately in the SDP, we need to conclude that today the state is treating the water as a mother, and this maternal relationship with the waters will continue in the future, and even worsen, according to the bill we are discussing today. Because of our awareness of the strategic dimension of water in the SDP Club, we are committed to passing a quality law that would regulate water protection and management. We also advocate the development of quality environmental impact studies that would truly protect this first-class Croatian public interest, not in order to make studies, and what the situation has today favoured the interest of investors, whether it is private or state capital. In the SDP, we also consider it necessary to control strictly the exploitation of groundwater and drinking water and to change the trend so far, i.e. to increase water exports as a final product, not as raw materials. In order to effectively protect this extremely important resource, it is necessary to increase the number of inspectors, inspection of water in strict application of laws and legal standards, including with the help of newly formed environmental police. The SDP also advocates the systematic education of Croatian citizens on the importance of water conservation and possible harmful effects and ways in which prevention can take place, for example to warn about the harmfulness of the spilling of motor oil into sewers. The law that lies before us is confusing, contradictory in many provisions, incomplete and inaccurate, lacking the necessary criteria that must contain quality laws. So the law instead of protecting water as a public good that belongs to all, as our most valuable resource, it wide opens the door to privatising water. In fact, the bill defines water as a common good, but the properties on which that water lies will now be able to be privately owned. This is unequivocally stated in Article 10 of this bill, which reads: "Regulating and protective structures are public goods in general use owned by the Republic of Croatia. Exceptionally, in paragraph 1 of this Article, the regulatory and protective structures of an investor who is a private person are owned by those persons." The end of the quote. This is contrary to the provisions of the Property Act and other real rights which under real estate implies land, and all that is on that land belongs to that land. So the fundamental principle of property unity means that whoever owns the land is also the owner of everything on that land. The ownership of the land can be exceptionally excluded from the property of the facility only temporarily and on the basis of the right to build. The separation of ownership of land from the ownership of the building is possible only exceptionally and temporarily, based on the right to build in a certain period of time. According to the proposed Water Law proposal, there is a separation of property of the facility, i.e. water buildings and land on which these buildings were built, i.e. buildings would no longer belong to the land, and the owners of the land would also be owners of water buildings. Or in other words, in practice, this will mean that the owner of the building of the accumulated lake is the owner of the lake’s land, then that he owns an artificial riverbed or melioracian canal of land on which the river is located, i.e. the canal and the like. Therefore, the separation of ownership of water structures from the ownership of land particles, and as defined by this proposal of the law, is a violation of the legal system of property unity and the Law on ownership and other real rights and the creation of complete legal confusion. This proposal for a law is contrary to the concession law because it contains a series of provisions which provide for the award of a concession for the use of a public water goods without a competition, i.e. by direct contract, for example on the basis of a water legal permit which, under its content, is the right of concessions under a decision or sublegal act to be prescribed by the Minister or by the transfer of concession to another person. To say, these provisions open doors wide to corruption. This bill is also very liberal to those who profit enormously from the extraction of mineral raw materials in the area of importance for the water regime, and even to those who do so illegally. Thus, in Article 61 of the Law, the bill states: "A legal, i.e. natural person who is in the area of importance for the water regime and sanitary protection zones draws out sand and gravel without a concession agreement, that is to say, extracts a stone without acts prescribed by special rules in mining and water law, it is necessary to compensate for the damage done according to the decision on the level of compensation for gravel and sand that is made in accordance with the law governing the financing of the water economy." This provision of the law will surely scare very much the unscrupulous criminals who make enormous profits on these unorganic uses. In other words, criminals dealing with illegal gravel continue to be free, as far as the state is concerned, and will not fall off their heads. In fact, if they're caught, they'll just have to pay for the gravel, sand and stone at the legal price. We also consider the article 59, which represents nothing but an excuse for over-exploitation of gravel and sand quasi due to the work of editing and maintenance of inland waterways, maintenance of port and port aquariums and so on. Croatian waters are already implementing such projects, and in this sense I will mention a project which Croatia is leading under the alleged alibi of flood defences, measures of technical and economic maintenance of the Drava and Mura troughs at 9 locations plan to extract a million metres of cubic gravel, which will devast extremely valuable habitats. Namely, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, which is proposed by the proposer of this proposal in September this year, issued a solution on the measures of technical and economic maintenance of the river Drava and Mura, which Croatia's waters are required to implement within 90 days past Croatian laws and public views. These locations are of exceptional natural value, they are listed on the list of European important habitats for wetlands and certain types of mammals, fish, reptiles and plants. The planned work would significantly disrupt the entrenched migration routes of game, as well as the migration pathways of fish at the time of deforestation, but it does not care about the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which in this bill is in Articles 114 and 115, stipulates that the interest in protecting human life and health and their property is stronger than the interests of an ecologically significant area, i.e. preserving biodiversity and the protection of natural values, thereby giving incredible freedom to build new regulatory and protective structures, building new buildings for water melliorization and maintenance. We would also like to stress that the proposal for a Water Law gives unlimited powers to Croatian waters in deciding on the acquisition of real and other rights on public water good, and these rights can only belong to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In this proposal, Croatia's water law is defined as an agency with just the most amazing beauty of the area of action. This bill establishes another agency, the Water Regulation Agency for which the bill does not show at all what it should do except to catch new HDZ personnel. Similarly, we are afraid to plan another new body of the Water Institute that should be engaged in scientific and professional and other similar activities. When we add the two agencies and the institute to both the RES and the National Water Council, I'm afraid we'll get total confusion and chaos where we won't know who's drinking and who's paying, which we'll be sure to have tragic consequences for water protection in Croatia. The weaknesses of this bill are also a whole series of provisions which are provided that the sublaw, the Government Regulation or the Rules of Procedure of the Minister will regulate issues which cannot, by their nature, be prescribed by a sublegal act, but must be governed by the law. One of the stupidities of this law is Article 30 of the Law, which determines that the minister will prescribe the content, procedure and methodology of the production of the Water Management Strategy. Which is why the minister must prescribe how the strategy will look really unclear to us, because it is known what structure must have any strategy and so does the water management strategy. In other words, a completely pointless red tape that is definitely not the place in the law. And at the very end of this presentation on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to say that I oppose this bill because it is unorganic, it does not recognise, it does not protect water as a strategic national resource because it is not in accordance with our legal system because this bill wide opens the door to privatising water, which is for us as parliamentary representatives and advocates who must protect public and not private interest absolutely unacceptable, and because this bill encourages corruption and unnecessary awakening of a politically similar administration. Unfortunately, we must conclude that in the last two weeks, by ruling with a visibly and completely eyeslessly, they only care about the protection of the material interests of lobbys close to the top of the government, not the protection of public interests, which should be their job. This is visible not only from the proposal of the Water Law, which we are discussing today, but also from the Agricultural Land Act and the Golf Courses Act. Since we have put all these privatisation laws that remind the law on conversion and privatisation from the 1990s into the parliamentary procedure, and the Law on Golf Courses even in an emergency procedure in the holidays when people, or the public, are not quite up to politics, it speaks sufficiently of the right intentions of the promoters and this is the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23700	On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23701	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first I will say that the Croatian People's Party club will not support this Water Law proposal because we have not found any valid good reasons to do the opposite. The debate on the Water Act is good to start by finding out from the law that the construction and maintenance of regulatory and protective water structures, meliorating water buildings and public water supply and disposal and treatment of waste water is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. That's how it was under the 95th Waters Act, and it should be today. What changes this law with regard to the state of affairs so far? A new name, i.e. a new institution called the community of the service area, is being introduced into the water economy. However, although Article 4 of the Law explains all the significant concepts of the text and also the general terms known as streams, floods, surface waters, rivers, troughs, shores, springs, the lake does not explain the institution of the community of service. And it is a special newspaper and will probably bring about a special confusion between current water distributors and their owners, municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the existing law states in Article 34 that the water supply activity is carried out by legal persons in accordance with the law governing the municipal economy. We all know that these are mostly municipal enterprises owned by one or more municipalities or cities. This provision is now lost and remains only a formulation in Article 41 of Chapter 4D of public water supply. The water used in the use of spring water within the range appropriate to its needs shall have a service area in which the springs are located. The term "public operators" which carry out the public water supply activity is used below, which would be our municipal enterprises under the Law on the municipal economy. However, if we look at the explanation of this term in Article 4, we will see that these are companies or institutions in which units of local self-government have a majority share or majority decision-making right and which are entrusted under the provisions of this law to carry out one or more public water supply and public draining and wastewater treatment activities. From this point on, we conclude that the proposer of the new Water Act believes that water distributors will no longer be able to be utility companies under the Law on the municipal economy which, apart from water distribution, engaged in other municipal activities, waste disposal, care for cemetery, cleaning and maintenance of roads, horticulture, markets, etc. but municipalities and cities will have to start a new company that will deal only with water and sewage. Thus, after the decommissioning of gas distribution from utility companies, it moves into another decommissioning from utility companies, water distribution and draining and wastewater treatment. If so, we can conclude from Article 220 of the Law in which public water supply and disposal and wastewater treatment are now referred to as over-communal activities, whatever that means. We believe that it is unnecessary and inappropriate to formulate these activities, these are municipal activities and should remain and be called, regardless of whether the legislator insists that they be carried out as clean activities in a new company without mixing with other municipal activities in the municipality or city. Such a formulation makes for unnecessary degradation of certain activities. One's worth more than the other, please tell that to those poor people in the utility companies who breathe the stink out of our garbage cans every day or picking up dead people's bones in the cemetery. Interestingly, we do not have this new word formation explained in the opening part of the Law in Article 4 and we have a stream of floods, floods, rivers, troughs, shores for small children. I consider the notion of over-communication to be unnecessary and harmful news and should give it up. However, it is obvious that the proposer insists on the need to establish a new private clean water distribution and wastewater supply company. My question is whether such water supply companies will continue to have the right to carry out investment works in water supply and disposal in their own direction for their own needs, of course, according to pre-determined calculators, which is a good practice of the current relations between Croatian water and utility companies. Experience has shown that the quality of such contracted and executed works is better than when they are placed on the market. No external contractor can have such a sense of responsibility for the quality of performance as a communal who does it for himself because he knows well that soon he will have great problems and costs if he performs the work in a way he holds water until the masters leave. From further provisions of the law, however, it follows that municipalities and cities together will have to establish communities of service areas that will constitute a technical and technological whole and logical area of water supply and disposal, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will set the limits of the service areas. The process of working in community service areas should begin in 1.1.2012, so for three years. If the municipalities and cities do not respect that deadline, they will not be able to obtain money for water supply and disposal from state funds. So, let's recap. Water supply and disposal will no longer be able to be operated by communals, but by private companies only for water and disposal organised on the principle of several municipalities and cities or even one or more counties representing a rounded whole. But as has been seen many times before, they do not have the municipalities, cities and counties to decide on their connection in the water supply and disposal sphere, but rather the borders of the new community institutions of the service area will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why on earth the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Do you think the local community alone isn't capable of such a thing? This is an example that the Government of the Republic of Croatia speaks one thing and the other works. It's about decentralisation, but it's about centralization. In addition to being in the form of State money hitching, for those who will not establish the communities of service areas of water supply and disposal until 1.1.2012, unobedient municipalities and cities or better said their utility companies will lose their concession on the capture of water from the source because, under the new law, the concession for water capture for public water supply needs will be granted exclusively to the community of the service area. And now something about motives, content, the effects of this state plan of rounding water distributors with the goal of getting a hundred from them on 30 distributors in Croatia. I would like to remind you that even in the argument of gas separation from communals and the target creation of 10th instead of 50 gas distributors in Croatia, it is said that this is done because in a larger system the gas will be cheaper and the larger distributor will be able to achieve better purchasing conditions in the INA, etc., etc. The gas was separated from the communals, nor was gas cheaper for the citizens, nor was INA looking at them differently than before. They only have bigger problems, because they need to hire privates with trucks, working machines and construction workers who usually do worse work than when workers and techniques were in a joint venture, and they always did quality work, because they knew they worked for themselves, for their safety and reputation. And now, in order to reduce the number of water distributors, it is said that the quality of supply will be better and the price of water will be lower. Today's legal water distributors who have a license to catch water, employed qualified experts and operatives with the necessary hygiene training and to work with poisons have a quality water distribution. It is not related to the size of the distribution network and the number of municipalities and cities it covers, but to the responsibility of business directors and mayors and mayors. The size also adapts to the structure of the terrain on which the water is distributed, the yields of springs from which water is drawn and the will of certain municipalities to enter the water supply system. Why should the Government of the Republic of Croatia define some new borders, establish some new institutions beyond the will or need of a local community? Well, they'll do it themselves if they think they do, and they need to, when an existing distributor doesn't have enough of its own water at the springs, so they have to connect into some wider system. It's a natural, technical and economic logic. But it doesn't make sense that an existing distributor has to enter some wider system because it's conditionally small and has enough water and has all the technical and personnel conditions for water distribution. If it enters a wider system, no pump station, no water storage, no meter of water nets will be excess or savings. Everything will continue to function because the nature of the terrain requires it. He'll be just the new director for a few dozen or a hundred miles away. And most of all, I'm fascinated by the claims that after we've made large distributors the water supply prices will be lower. This should mean that today small ones have high prices, and large ones have low water supply prices. Of course that is not so and I'm surprised that the promoter uses this thesis as an argument for circumnavigation when you have countless examples in Croatia that it is exactly the opposite. Of the larger Croatian towns and their water distributors, only Rijeka and Split have a price below the Croatian average of water supply and sewage, which is around 8 kuna per cubic metre of spent water. Pula has over 13 kuna, Sibenik over 12 kuna, Zagreb and Varazdin over 11 kuna, Zadar 11 kuna, Osijek and Čakovec more than 10 kuna, Sisak, Koprivnica, Delnice and Virovitica almost 10 kuna, Karlovac, Bjelovar, Dubrovnik over 9 kuna, etc. Many and many small distributors are below those prices. A lot below. And the truth is that by joining them into a larger system, their current water price will increase. I'm not saying that their water price is real today. It's not. It should be higher, but the fact that the price of water in the system of municipal activities of municipalities and cities is a kind of social shocker for the mayors of municipalities and mayors of cities, because of the fact that of all levels of government closest to citizens, they see and feel all their daily existential problems and, at least, lower prices of water and drains amortise their dissatisfaction. Many water distributors or better say communals this leads to major problems, to the inability of adequate technical equipment, to the inability to invest in the construction of new water supply facilities and the rehabilitation of existing ones, in the recovery of the derutic water network. That's where I have to correct you Secretary of State. Well, it's not a problem with those pilot projects and those 600 thousand kunas that you're giving for it to buy devices for the detection of malfunctions and things like that. Well, that device just finds out where the water leaks, and it puts it in the motherland, and it's going to let it go tomorrow. That device only detects there's a malfunction, and there's communals you need to jump, open and close, and it's going to crack again 10 meters away tomorrow, because there's a problem in the whole network. As a result, it is also necessary to add to this the general inability to collect part of the water delivered to people who are unemployed and social cases and to somehow reconcile the missing revenues from the base of the goods sold and the need for the profession in order to deliver medically correct water, the communals must partially deal with commercial affairs. We believe that the state should not set certain limits in terms of the quantities of water sold as a logic for joining into a larger system. The logic of association must be of a technical nature, so the quantity and quality of the water delivered and the interest of the holder of local authorities. We also have a question regarding Article 59 of the Law concerning the extraction of mineral raw materials in the area of importance for the water regime. So he says that the collected gravel and sand will be able to be installed in public buildings of interest for the Republic of Croatia. Since water supply facilities, means pumping stations, water storage, pipelines and disposal and treatment facilities at local level of buildings of interest to the Republic of Croatia, the question is whether local companies will be able to seek and obtain this gravel and sand for their buildings. We believe that at this time of recession it would be a desirable aid to the local community in reducing the cost of construction of water supply and disposal facilities. If the answer is confirmed to whom and when the local community will be able to address for the extraction of sand and gravel So, I would ask you for concrete answers for these few issues of importance for local companies, the implementation of works in its own direction for your own needs and the right of the local community to extract sand and gravel from the aquatic goods. And here's to conclude, as far as your statement is concerned, that the large-scale municipal company went bankrupt, you seem to be in a great delay, and you are knowingly misleading the public, because the concession on water draining at the "Kosnica" water station has requested a utility company "VG Water supply" that has existed for 5 years and has nothing to do with "VELCOM" in bankruptcy. The municipal infrastructure according to the court decision is property of the town of Velika Gorica, and "VG Water supply" successfully operates and carries out the activities of water supply and disposal. Please do not deceive the public, and do the opposite of the law because in any case the concession must be awarded to the public water supply distributor if he needs it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23702	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS club, Honorable representative of colleague Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23703	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Since this law is in the first reading, I will only bring some thought and some suggestions here, hoping, of course, that it can be useful and that it will eventually be appreciated. I will first start with this to be measured in this domain, so when it comes to water and water management, it is a large and important national resource which you yourself know is measured by quite a large amount of money and a rather expressed public interest that must be protected. On the other hand, when it is of great public interest, when it is a great benefit and a great deal of money, then it seems to me that it must be such a vertical guarantee that this interest will be protected and there will be public control, and that it will contain, say, any possible corruption in all of this. It's the starting point where I come from, and here I'm going to make some proposals about the specific provisions of the law, and only some of the following. First of all, Article 25 discusses some kind of decision-making authority, and here I think quite well and properly set. First, you have an article 24. The Croatian Parliament brings the Water Management Strategy. Then behind that you have at 25. The Water Management Plan is adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, before the plans and programmes involved in the whole area are also brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This, of course, says that this is exactly what I said, about the important interest and therefore important documents are brought at such a high level. Now, I'm adding here something that says here in Article 29 also concerns this issue of jurisdiction in deciding on important matters. Here in Article 29, it ends with a water management plan, and then there is one section in which it writes, in accordance with the conditions and criteria laid down in the decision on the implementation of the water management plan, the Administrative Council of Croatian Waters shall adopt. And I suggest that in this provision, too, in accordance with this need, important decisions are made to say with this vertical public control, that an article 29 should be incorporated into the provision in which it will be written. Water management plan with this supplement inside or not brings the Administrative Council of Croatian Waters, but with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am saying this because it seems to me that it is important matter, that it is a matter of being quite rude, a large amount of money, jobs and money, and that it should not be missed or left to the decision of the Governing Council of Croatian Waters alone. That's what I'm saying for another reason. The perception may be guilty, but Croatian waters, Croatian forests have resources in which they have significant autonomy and may have some. But there's also a potential danger of being born in that autonomy or the result of corruption. The next thing I suggest here is Articles 16 and 17. Here's the thing. There's two things, it's a construction program and it's a maintenance program. Article 16 states that for the construction of regulatory protective structures, etc. a multi-annual development programme is adopted. I think it would be good if it were not a multi-year development programme, but to be a construction programme, because it's about building regulation safeguards, etc. So investments going under construction. Therefore, let it be a programme of construction, and let it not be a multi-annual one, but rather a program of construction for a period of four years. For four years, it's a normal period and a mandate, and as I would say, it can be monitored, eventually and for the sake of this vertical control. And I can't see, and I think it would be very important if it wasn't under this title of a general type of multi-annual development program. It's a title that allows a variety of divorces. In Article 17, as mentioned above, the construction below is about maintenance, for regular maintenance, etc. I also think that it is necessary to adopt a maintenance programme and also for a period of four years. And what I think is important is that both of these programmes be brought forward by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry because of the importance of the matter and I repeat for the control of behaviour and enforcement. The third thing that I'm proposing here is Article 59. In Article 59, this is a question of gravel, sand, today it was in an interesting way of speaking, gravel, sand extracted during works, etc., and then it reads "it can be built into public buildings of interest for the Republic of Croatia". It's actually about what gets taken out by cleaning the canals and now simplifying the story will be built into public buildings, what's too much to sell by public competition. It seems to me that it would be good for this 59th place to be installed instead of this so that it could be defined as primarily to be used to build or install public buildings of interest for the Republic of Croatia. So, first of all. It's a state resource, let it be used for buildings that are of the state's interest, and that's where you get to say money gains. And what's extra and that's regulated by this item 2, the rest of the gravel, etc. Let it be sold through a public tender, but I suggest that there be then what the Commission for the Property of the Government of the Republic of Croatia decides. My position here is because I would like to say so so that responsibility and control for the availability of such an important and large resource is strengthened. In Article 60, this is the next proposal I make here. Now it says there's an eyewitness. So keep an eyewitness on the amount of material extracted and data on this, so legal and natural persons who do this are led by an eyewitness and delivered to Croatian waters. Content and method of keeping an eye on and manner of deadlines and data delivery, etc. He's prescribing a minister. I join the thinking that has been said here today that this should not be left in the power of the minister, but that should also be done by the Minister but in the prepared opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm here to compose the commission, and the Office of the Government of Property simply to put this thing under complete control. It seems to me that, of course, I admit it may look petty, but it seems to me that when it comes to such big things and when it comes to building or trying to build a more honest practice that nothing is relevant. I'll stop there, too. I didn't admit I had time to cut this into more. I would like what I propose to be understood as a good solution and a better solution and built in, and in the second reading, I hope that we will get if I can say so about my taste better proposal. He would seem to be of interest both to us and to the proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23704	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23705	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, the Water Act, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted to the Croatian Parliament in the time provided for by the National Plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. The water crisis felt by a large part of the world is not caused by too little water, but by an inadequate way of water management that results in billions of people suffering from water shortages. Some estimates suggest that in the near future, some 3 billion people will have less than a thousand hundred cubic cc's of renewable water resources per capita per year. That amount you'll agree to is insufficient. Croatia is fortunately listed in a group of water-rich countries where water and water problems have not yet been tightened and water resources are not a limiting factor for the time being. Moreover, the Republic of Croatia, by the availability and wealth of water sources, is 5th in Europe and 42nd in the world and has an extremely high potential. The balances of surface and underground waters show that the Republic of Croatia has large indivisible spatial and time-assigned quantities of surface and underground waters. Accordingly, water management bodies have powers, obligations and opportunities to design quality and harmonised solutions sustainable for all parts of the water system and all activities of the water system, depending on the water of the dependent economy. I think it is also an opportunity to remind myself that a water economy has been organised in our area since 1876 and the first Water Law Act was passed by the Croatian Parliament in 1891. The 1995 Water Act was the first step in adapting water management, political conditions after the country's independence and changes in 2005 began to bring the European Community's requirements closer to the declared water management policy in the community. The adoption of a water management strategy adopted by this Parliament in July of this year has paved the way for the full transformation of the water management system in the Republic of Croatia, meaning in accordance with the procedures of the European Union, but the same document also defined strategic provisions, namely that water is a natural wealth of interest to the Republic of Croatia, that the possibility of privatising water resources rights is excluded, that integrated water management and water division is managed, that decentralisation of water management is introduced, the extraction of infrastructure from municipal companies owned by local self-government units, awarded concessions for public water supply to units of local self-government, not operators, but also the reform of the municipal sector. With this seventh edition of the Water Act, the requirements of the legal property of the European Union and all those strategic provisions of the recently adopted strategy are fully translated into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. So a total of 10 regulations have been transposed. It's mostly about directives. A number of new water management instruments have also been introduced in the country but also used valuable national experience gained in continuous, organised water management for more than 130 years. I would like to point out here that the new law has created a successful merger between traditional water management patterns and new management instruments to ensure primarily sustainable water management that reduces and overcomes conflict between human and environmental water needs, but also increases the level of protection of human health and the environment as a whole, as well as an increase in the degree of sustainability of eco-systems and the protection of biodiversity. Further meeting increased water requirements for certain qualitys in the requested quantities, but also reducing water pollution and removing water pollution to dangerous substances, as well as reducing uncertainty related to floods and droughts. The aim is to protect and quality water means to all water, surface, underground, transitional and coastal, with special care for the management of the quality of water for human use. The institutional water management structure rests on the principle of decentralisation with clear responsibilities in the national, regional and local water sectors. At the Club of the Croatian Democratic Communities, we believe that it is good for the national water sector to exercise its responsibilities in water management, in managing public water good, in developing and managing the system of basic melliorative draining and irrigation, and in implementing the national investment policy in the regional and local water sector. Yes to, and that the regional sector is fulfilling our responsibilities in the development and management of the system of detailed melliorative draining and irrigation and the local water sector, which means associated cities and municipalities to exercise competence in the development and management of public water supply systems, wastewater disposal and coastal waters, as well as waste water treatment. The reform of the municipal sector provides for the uniformity and improvement of the quality of services as well as more efficient and quality management of public water supply and draining and water treatment systems. In addition to the development of the water information system, the establishment of a water institute as well as the Agency for the Regulation of Water Services, the implementation of the above will be significantly facilitated. This law also carried out harmonisation with horizontal laws, meaning the Law on concessions, spatial arrangements, environmental protection, nature protection and the Law on navigation and ports. In the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we hold that we are making this law at the right time to avoid the problems that some countries already have, and this is possibly the creation of a water monopoly when water prices, when water prices are rising, water management quality declines, investments are reduced, water, water is less available to many. France has just begun the process of reprivatisation by returning the largest private company under public supervision. In conclusion, I'm going to single out one more time why are we going to support this law first reading? Because there is no privatisation means either direct or indirect water resources or privatisation of water-communal infrastructure. Water management is decentralised. Public water supply and disposal buildings, meaning public water supply and disposal buildings are public goods and in general use. The water-communication infrastructure cannot be the subject of enforcement, cannot be alienated or become part of the bankruptcy mass. We believe that this is how we protect this very valuable resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23706	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23707	It is incorrect that a colleague claimed that the water protection policy began with the adoption of the 1995 Water Law. It was just then that we had the arrangement of maritime and military goods and it was resolved in a unique way, so the water well was as good as the marine well-being of the general good. Since 1995, we haven't had water wells as a general good anymore. The door to privatisation was wide open, with various abuses. Since then, we've had that gravel and everything else that's burdening us, and this bill doesn't make it wide open, but it's an invitation to do so. But then.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23708	Thank you. Booth said when they're 10 minutes old. Let's move on. On behalf of the IDS Club, distinguished representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23709	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will say, with the harmonisation of this law with the directives of the European Union, it is certainly worth saying that this law amends existing legislation in order to implement in the water-community economy a model of water-economic circulation and integrated water management within the community of the service area and beyond, at least that's what the law says. The bill sets out a new form of association between the community of service areas. In the law, the bill does not show what is considered a service area. Community service areas are not sufficiently regulated and those provisions relating to them are non-systematic. The proposed law did not territorially define the service areas but prescribed that the boundaries of the service areas, that the borders of the service areas would be established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the bill also does not define the legal form of the service areas, the internal structure, the decision-making mechanism, the scope of the authorisation is already proposed to regulate the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed solutions show the intensiveness of the water utility sector and the uniform arrangement, but without full and harmonised access, the regulation of public water supply and disposal activities, i.e. waste water treatment, and thus the law remains inconclusive. This also contributes to the fact that this proposal puts aside the provisions of the Law on the municipal economy which determine what is considered to be the activity of public water supply, i.e. disposal and treatment of waste water and through which organisational forms can be carried out. Here's what's already been said, it says here that units of local self-government are required within five years to establish communities of service areas. If they do not, they shall be fined in such a way that they cannot be used by means of compensation for the use of water, water protection fees, they cannot use State budget funds, outside of budget funds, etc. that is, if they do not, then the law provides that the Agency shall act or assume the powers of the community of the service area. So, the agency that's being formed also by this law. Here, I would say that it is unacceptable in all, that it is a demeaning of citizens, the demeaning of units of local self-government, municipalities, cities, because I think it is, and it comes from the European Charter of Local Self-Government where we should ask municipalities, cities, counties, and we have the Union of Cities, the Union of municipalities and the Croatian Community of Countys as they think. We directly enter into the authority, jurisdiction and constitution of defined powers of cities, i.e. municipalities that are specified in the Constitution but also in the Law on Local Self-Government. The existing organisation of public water supply and disposal and treatment of waste water according to the Law on the municipal economy allows units of local self-government to decide directly on their construction, development and maintenance programmes, etc. Following this, we propose that the establishment of a community of service areas in this law is not defined as an obligation but as a possibility if there is an interest in some settlements or municipalities with a smaller population. Furthermore, the law also found in the draft law that the decision on disposal for the service area was made by the community of the service area, with the consent of the Croatian Waters. In view of the content of the decision aimed at concrete public draining and wastewater treatment towards the condition of a specific unit of local self-government, it is not clear that one decision will uniformly regulate public draining and treatment of waste water for the service area, given very different technical and technological solutions by cities, municipalities. I think decisions like that can only be made by local self-government units. Furthermore, the proposal for a law provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, by means of a regulation, prescribe the conditions and manner of delivery of water services and the way in which water services are provided, the general conditions of delivery, the structure and the method of accounting, the prices of water services, the activity and the public authority of public operators, etc. etc. It is also foreseen that the Agency will make decisions on calculative elements for the prices of water services to be regulated by water services. In view of the fact that the proposal for a law puts out of force or puts aside the Law on the municipal economy relating to public water supply, disposal and treatment of waste water, it is not clear under which conditions and how the supply of services will be done and which will be included in the water price structure of water services in view of the importance of this problem or must be determined by law. Otherwise, the law is normally unspeakable and untransparent. What is our point is that the law, i.e. the draft law, is not sufficiently regulated by the Institute of Public Operators, and generally this law does not solve the problem of public water supply and disposal, i.e. the purification of waste water in a systematic, whole way, leaving for a period of time for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry or the Agency to solve the same with unclear provisions in which the form is to be adopted. Here I have to say in the beginning, in the end, that we will not support in first reading this law. I say it is only good in this law that it is not adopted by an emergency procedure, especially as regards public water supply and disposal of waste water and I would ask the promoter to deliver us in accordance with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, since this law directly or the bill of law is directly in the jurisdiction of the municipalities and cities, to provide us with an indication of the Union of Cities and municipalities and the Croatian Community of County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23710	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23711	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of colleagues who have said that municipalities and cities are obliged to set up service communities within five years. Unfortunately for me and for him, that deadline is 1.1.2012. So three years. It is true that the proponent in the opening arguments said that there would be a five-year transitional period for these communities, as well as for those financing the water economy. But it's just proof that one thinks, and the other works in law. It's been in law for three years. After 3 years, money must be given, and a community of service areas must be established.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23712	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23713	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Here, the other day a consultation was held here in Zagreb, a consultation that took place since 4 and 5 December 2008. Today, we have heard that 60% of the population of the Republic of Croatia does not have drains, i.e. water treatment. In ancient Rome, the waterway and the sewerage of cities were a normal thing, so then from old Rome to here and the others, to say civilizations throughout the centuries were worried about it. In this proposal for a law on water actually hides something that was here, which is actually a further sale of national wealth, we had opportunities to hear about forests here, we had agricultural land. Here, it seems to me that the water springs are underground, the ground floor is also at issue when it comes to privatization which again is very often there are corrupt elements, and we will regulate it all again by establishing a new agency, the Institute of Water, we establish the Agency for Agricultural Land, the Institute for the Ground, and here the Institute for Water, so the re-invulsion of Administration and employees in the administration. Instead of declaring the waters strategic, as someone said by the resource, I would say by strategic product, by the wealth of the Republic of Croatia, they are listed as common good in Article 3. In my opinion, the strategic resource is a far more difficult word, a more important word than the common good. So they say that water is generally good for that and that, because of its natural properties. So the waters as a general good have special protection of the Republic of Croatia. How proud and patriotic it sounds. But the waters are generally good, and golf courses, 65 in the Republic of Croatia are the strategic interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, tourism, well. That's it. It's a strategic interest, right? Although I don't see who's been playing golf here so far, I don't know who's interested. None of us played golf here for sure. It is a good thing that this bill is in the first reading, and I hope that if there is good intentions and faith in the good intentions of the representatives who speak here, there are significant changes to this law to the second reading. Indeed, one of the colleagues here commented that there is a general confusion in this bill, and in the context of articles 24, 25, 29, and 30, which he did not state about, so who manages, who adopts the strategy, plans, programmes and so on, so the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Administrative Council of Croatian Waters are also in play and finally in Article 30 and Minister. Now, who's in charge of all this, I'm really not enough, maybe I'm not smart enough to figure it out, but it's really one mess. When we go to the sea, to the island of Vir, where Ingrid often comes, then we buy drinking water in supermarkets and department stores, and they wear the name "Vitinka". Well, I think it's from Vitina in Herzegovina, and it's not, it's from Vitina in Kosovo. So we're buying an acid Sarai. We've got Minakvu Newsadian water, all the way to Evian's in France. But the production of our domestic drinking water is in very, very small quantities compared to this imports of water from nearby and further countries. It is interesting how they find it of interest and how regular drinking water is paid for, so to export to the Republic of Croatia. And Slavonia, well I would say Croatia and the wider and Baranja lie on the drinking water reserves, and the Americans who filmed the satellite our area, yes and the oil, but good on that second time, so on the big, big water tanks. And rather than, as I have already said, that water is a strategic interest, to encourage in this sense and part of the drinking water production economy and to be exporters of drinking water and industry, not only water, but also juices and minerals and so on, and we have sources and mineral waters and thermal springs that are clearly recorded, to say in the mining records and which are described 40 years ago and 50 years ago, and where INA has conducted the research. A little one, let me say, I won't say man, not small, he's big for me, and it's called Fr. Grga Willic of Potocan in the Municipality of Odzak in Bosnia and Herzegovina more of his church has one source of drinking water. He caught a liter of drinking water from that spring, sent it to the Royal Institute in London and found it to be excellent, excellent, most excellent water. He didn't do anything with it, but after a few days, he got word from people from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait who would buy it in rinfuze, so to speak, a complete production of that source of drinking water, and he's doing it today. And what are we doing in Croatia? So it's in Odjak, so Bosnia and Herzegovina. We will give and enable some as well as golfers, white-world types with domestics, not to tell traitors to have water sources in the Republic of Croatia. Articles 182, 183 and 189 refer to this. In order to quote these articles, they are not long, so the concession for the purposes of Article 183 is set out in Article 1, paragraph 1, and that is to include water for the needs of public water supply, so it is excluded that a concession for public water supply can be granted. However, in that same Article 189, paragraph 4 states, irrespective of paragraph 1 of this Article, the concession may be granted on the basis of a direct request, if the sole possible concessionary is the owner or other legal owner of a particular property. What does that mean, Mr. Secretary of State? This means that if someone buys land in Kosnica or as they say in Zagreb, Črenkovec does, in some way, write in this conclusion, right next to the water protection belt, then it is not limited to that fence and water in the depth of the country, but it goes quite safely to other parcels around and these parcels have already been purchased, I know that they have been bought for this reason. So he will be able to compete with Zagreb, Greater Gorge and other water lines. It's business business. It's a very lucrative business. And here we swear in Article 3 that water is generally good. Water as a general good has a special protection of the Republic of Croatia, I said that this proudly and patrioticly sounds and finally after these articles of the law that I was talking about is actually the opposite. I hope that the intentions are still good and that there is a good will and faith that these things will be reconsidered once again until the second reading of the ID. This is the very one I'd say would be one perfided blurry formulation here are colleagues who used to be me who hadn't even noticed it, haven't noticed, haven't quoted it yet, have you? But Ingrid's safe. I wanted to do something more by these articles, to see, but I must say that because of the things I was talking about, most likely, not most likely but certainly in the first reading of myself and those who are present from our club, they will not vote for this bill proposal, and from this consultation that was held I hope that you were there, since from your fah, therefore counselling for Zagreb waters, have very great recommendations and solutions, the visions of Zagreb as a town on water. So I'll hand it over to you if you don't have one, and for this bill, I say this is how he's formulated I won't vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23714	Thank you. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. By the way, I'd like to pray that when you fill out your applications, it's clear that you can... Yeah, that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23715	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As I have debated this previous Law on the financing of aquatic goods, I have just announced what I will say about this proposal for a law on waters that I will not support because it is an apparent vision of how people's property is being held. In the '90s, we had in action as the church characterized the sin of structure. This treatment of this package of laws can be called the sin structure of the second part. However, what is the 1990s long-term robbery of social property, this privatisation of a well-lawed robbery, which is why we are particularly sensitive to myself and to this kind of law, which we consider to be a paper robbery, is also the second part, so for the long term, Croatia has traumatized from which to this day Croatia has not recovered. This was also spoken out loud by the Croatian Bishopial Conference through the mouth of the Archbishop of Cardinal Bozanić, who is talking about how the government does not want to fight corruption and is talking about this ruthless intensity in the time of the privatisation crisis, and that is something I say which is particularly dangerous. So they compare it even with aggression against Croatia, with such a danger. So this is the bill's proposal, is this the time to face a constitutional break at 7:00 a.m. somewhere hidden from the public, we're discussing a bill like this, midnight? We like to be covered by the night, but it'll come out, too. Namely, the law is right, the bill of law is an attack on constitutional and legal order, and we here are obliged to talk about it. We're obliged to scream about this. This is where you rob the poor people. You're laughing, we're responsible. Let us because we're company...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23716	Dear MPs, just a moment. Dear MPs, please don't pollute with the other MPs because there's a lot of laughter behind your backs from your ranks and you can turn to them first, but don't pollemize with the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23717	Don't take away my right to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23719	Thank you very much. The basic provisions are contrary to the basic principle, the basic principles of the Property Act and other real rights. Water should be treated as a general good as a maritime well, but in 95, we see this danger, where these waters are no longer treated as a general good. Which means, only as a public good with the possibility of privatising what this bill says on water buildings, and that's inadmissible. The ownership of land is something that is fundamental to the principles and property settings in the Republic of Croatia to give real estate and that the land on which the building is followed by the unity of property, there is no separation. You separated that concept to privatize. It is not lawful under the Law of Property and Real Rights or by the Constitution. In practice, given the possibility of booking in the land book, this would mean that the owner of the building, for example, of the accumulator lake, actually owns land particles at the bottom of the lake, at the bottom where the other water was created. Is that normal? Isn't that absurd? Therefore, the separation of ownership, water buildings from land particles are definitely introduced under this law contrary to the Law of Property and other real rights and leads to complete, complete legal confusion. The law on ownership and other real rights in its Article 3(1) states that they are not capable of being the property facility of all things which prevent their natural properties or legal provisions from belonging to an individual. So you violated that principle. The law on ownership and other real rights clearly states that a special law cannot determine that certain things become a private property object, which is, it is also about water and buildings over them. That's not allowed. According to our legal system, the basis of special laws as a general good are sea and sea particles, sea shores, springs, cliffs, beaches, ports, public roads and surrounding land, urban streets, railway infrastructure. Therefore, for the consistency of our legal system, it is necessary to set up a maritime good for the public water well-determined as a general good, and that the buildings built on the public water well belong to that good. And here's a special mention of the situation that happened in 1995 when it just disappeared the water well as a general good and instead of this water regulation law, to arrange these waters, to calm them down, it cloudes the water. And why is that? For a famous hunt in a blurry one. Giving a concession, that's just a special story. So it comes from one side to privatization, and on the other hand, to the theft of the mine treasure, and gravel and sand are nothing more than the exploitation of the mine treasure, but this law does not recognise it. I don't know how that authority wouldn't be recognised by this law. Namely, chapter 5 provides for the extraction of mineral raw materials. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's an explosion of the mineral treasure. Let's not forget that at the end of the '90s, the crime was lifted, please, the extraction, the exploitation of the mine, the illegal exploitation of the mine treasure. Well, it's not weird what happened, strangely, suddenly there's no such crime. We only introduced the crime in 2000, 2001. So this is not to say that it's about exploitation, it's about extracting mineral raw materials, and extracting mineral raw materials according to the Mining Act, it's about the exploitation of both gravel and sand, and all of this you want to remove with these special provisions, such explicit and coherent standards of the concession law and the Mining Act. The subject of the regulation of this law must therefore be water, not exploitation of raw materials. And for your extraction of gravel, sand is exploitation and must be regulated, it can't be regulated by this law, except for special water protection when such jobs are done, and how these jobs are done, so that's what the Law on concessions and the Mining Act said. The water-registration license holder who is the license to exploit is Croatian water. So what's the real thing? Who authorized you to do that? Therefore, duality is introduced in sanctioning illegality in a way that is sanctioned by Croatian waters, in a administrative procedure. So a legal person owned by a state rather than being held by criminal and litigious courts, which they do otherwise in such proceedings. Therefore, it deviates from the Mining Act and the Law on concessions. In fact, here they are mentioned in the law of concession law, but they also say, or this water legal permit, and that water legal permit cannot be granted. By its being, it is nothing but concessions that are subject to a public competition, and this is how you would gladly give it out of hand. It won't work, it can't be. That's unconstitutional. It's an attack on the constitutional order. It's an attack on property belonging to and owned by the state. It is therefore essential that the provisions on the extraction of mineral raw materials be laid down in past the Mining Act, that the Mining Act apply to both the sea and the sea coast, and in essence there is no difference between sea and inland waters. You deliberately created such a single duality that this law has nothing to do with such a water mining, because extraction is mining. Why am I repeating this? That wouldn't be for agricultural land and forest land either. So everything's left to concessions. Only here can only be reserved for special water protection. The water licence shall be the pan-day of the concession and shall be issued at the request of the contrary to the procedure and the principle of the concession law. Therefore, the law fully deviates from the procedure, documentation and legal mechanisms and has one horror, a paradox that HEP signed up to Lake Peruca, and you told the law who enlisted it is his property. Great. It can't be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23720	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. Nevenka Marinovic is the first to be respected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is not the correct quote from counterpart Marinovic that it is a privatization of the water resource. The law says no privatisation, no direct, no indirect. Water resource or privatization of water utility infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23722	Thank you. The second is the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23723	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here in this evening's glare, Mrs. Antičević said a mass of incorrect allegations. One of them that I want to correct is that it is not possible to extract gravel or sand from the waterbeds of our rivers through Croatian waters. In fact, it is prescribed that technical cleaning is due to the waterway or other activities carried out by Croatian waters due to... fortifications or other operations necessary to protect riverbeds or to make waterways are necessary to make technical cleaning of certain areas, where concessions are not scheduled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23724	The violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23725	So a colleague violated Article 209. Rules of Procedure. He's talking about cleaning up. I didn't say anything about cleaning. But while you're talking about cleaning, cleaning is a way of cleaning up gravel and stealing and peeling rivers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23726	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'd like to ask you not to use it. As an excellent lawyer, you should know that, and don't make a fool out of our Rules of Procedure. He's smart, our Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And the esteemed representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23727	Dear Vice President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the very introduction of the proposal for this law, the Proposer announced the need to bring domestic legislation into line with the Water Framework Directive aimed at ensuring the good condition of water and water-related ecosystems and the mandatory full protection of the environment and the achievement of the general and economic development of the Republic of Croatia. The very text of the law cannot find real concerns about the environment, nature and taking over the work of responsibility for stopping and reducing the biodiversity of the Republic of Croatia. Water systems are known to be the most endangered systems on earth. They are under extremely high pressure and only a single change in the practice of the water economy sector's opinion and actions can stop them from falling further, disappearing from the face of the country. It also mentions a zero sectoral approach for overlapping competences, but this is not read in the articles of this law. Neither is any article recommended, and in practice nothing will change, and will remain a one-sectoral approach. The same applies to public participation, i.e. No provision can be found anywhere in the law dealing with information, consultation and public participation in the process of adopting management plans and their implementation. This bill is very extensive and often vaguely undefined provisions can easily lead to false interpretation or poor implementation. The text sets out a total of 4 terms for water well-being. Water resource, water quality area, water well-being and public water well-being. These terms are partially explained, so it is often difficult to understand exactly what the provision applies, which can refer to a deliberate complexity of the provision to facilitate false interpretation and the creation of black holes in the law. Chapter horizontal harmonisation of national legislation lists, inter alia, the Environmental Protection Act and the Nature Protection Act, and we do not see it through the articles of this proposal. The more the provisions and rules of the Nature Protection Act and the Regulation on the types of attitudes of types,... habitats, endangered and rare habitat types and measures to retain habitat types are ignored. The Regulation states that in order to protect endangered and rare habitats, the extraction of gravel in active riverbeds and flood plains must be avoided, and the exploitation of sediments from river springs is strictly prohibited, and this proposal encourages the excavation of sediments from riverbeds. Article 58 provides for free digging of sand and gravel from water streams and nunciation belts. It's interesting that the previous law of '95. the year is still in force in Article 55, 53 provides for digging out of renewed beds, and from unrenewed beds only subject to the conditions laid down in the Mining Act. There's no such thing in the new law. This is except that it no longer differs from unrenewed beds, and only for the extraction of stone must the conditions laid down in the mining rules be established, which means that the water sector also intends to facilitate the process of excavating sediments from the river. Article 59 also states that the use of... sediments in public buildings of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and the rest intends to sell on the market, and nowhere is it mentioned that it is practically impossible to determine the exact quantity of the recovered sediment. Eyewitnesses often only list one tenth of the amount. As a result of the continuous transmission of material, more sediments are often excavated than prescribed by the concession Treaty, thus significantly damaging the state budget. The unit is quoted in Article 62 as saying: "The area removed is a restricted area on the surface of the ground under water or in water where sand, gravel or stone can be extracted." And that's not serious because it's practically inconclusive. Article 61 even encourages and crime is quoted as saying: "A legal, i.e. natural person who, in the area of importance for the water regime and sanitary protection zones, extracts sand and gravel as without a concession contract, or extracts a stone without acts prescribed by special rules on mining and water law, is obliged to make up for damages according to a decision on the level of compensation for gravel and sand that is adopted in accordance with the law governing the financing of the water economy". In other words, if under quotes inspection does not authorise you to extract gravel or sand without a concession contract, they will pay only compensation for the collected gravel or sand and that is it. I think it's just amazing. The reason I cited the inspection under the quotes in the previous sentence is that there is no mention of anyone controlling the amount of unearthed gravel and sand needed to perform certain works, i.e. There is no mention of the supervision of the implementation of the concession contract which we consider to be one of the key problems in the implementation of this law, and the extraction project itself should be made public. When we talk about harmonising with the Water Framework Directive, a significant difference is that this bill does not prevent further degradation of the water ecosystem situation and its protection in order to ensure sustainability, balance and fair use of water. Furthermore, the Water Framework Directive sets out, as the objective, the specific reduction and reduction of harmful substances in water and the suspension of the release of priority harmful substances into water in general, and the proposal for this law states that concessions will determine the quantities to be released into water, without mentioning the reduction as such. The reduction should be a condition for granting a concession to a company. The Water Framework Directive also requires the law to set water protection targets. This may be mentioned as a protection against purification they must explicitly state in the initial articles of the law as fundamental principles. The basic principles are the most important part of every law in the Republic of Croatia. Article 23 states that the water management strategy, as well as many other strategies, including the Strategy for Biological and Regional Varieties, must be harmonised, and it is interesting to note that, before the end of the adoption of the strategy of biological and landscape diversity, in October of this year, it has been inserted into the text prepared from the Working Group for the Water Economy, and we fully have a procedure to exclude the state flood defence plan from the need to draw up a strategic impact assessment on the environment and assess the acceptability of nature procedures, which is contrary to several relevant laws and regulations. So there's no harmony with each other. In the section of the water-damaged treasurery, I quote in reviewing the public interest: "When the works of the water arrangements are carried out in an area specifically defined by law as an ecologically significant area of interest, the protection of life and human health and their property from floods, floods and ice, i.e. from water pollution, the prevailing public interest in the preservation of biodiversity and landscape diversity and the protection of natural value." It is interesting how this term is easily used and implemented under its auspices by various irregularities, and the non-compliance of a series of laws, the same is regulated by the Regulation on the assessment of acceptability... for nature in Article 14, and the non-compliance of this proposal with the laws on applicable laws and sublaws. A number of activities considered as water maintenance work are also listed, and as such necessary should be in line with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act and the Nature Protection Act, especially in view of the necessary construction of studies and the assessment of environmental impacts and the assessment of the acceptability of procedures for nature, except in the case of incidents and direct hazards for people and property. The proposal is to seek the opinion of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and the Ministry of Culture, as defined in Article 157, as well as to consult the Ministry of Transport and the users of buildings for the production of electricity. And to conclude, this proposal of the Water Act is not fully in line with the provisions of the Framework Directive on the waters of the European Union, because if it becomes valid this way, further delay will be given to the process of adapting Croatia to the European Union and extend the process of becoming a full member of the European Union. This bill continues to promote and legalise by nature and the environment harmful activities such as digging sand and gravel and outdated ways of defence against floods, erosions and other activities of water streaming that are equally devastating for biodiversity and landscape diversity. For all these measures, there are more modern methods less devastating for nature and equally effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23728	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23729	Your Honor, Vice President. I am speaking to you on behalf of the club with a question of what your work plan is to continue this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23730	I announced it this morning, that we would work without a break, that we would work longer. After that, we move on to a set of justice laws, first we have to finish this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23731	In that case, Mr. Vice President, the SDP club is looking for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23732	You can't get five minutes, you can get ten minutes. But come back in five minutes. But let's end this point with a final look at this point, to end this point. When we're done with this point, we'll give you a five-minute break and move on behind that. So we're moving on. The debate is over. In conclusion, in front of the Government, the distinguished Zdravko Krmek State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23733	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I want to thank everyone for participating in this debate today about the Water Law. What I'm trying to say is that we're going to try to install everything that's constructive, that we're going to consider, and that in the next reading, we're going to try to install it into the new text of the law. However, I still want to add only two sentences, and it is obvious that through the debate there was a question first of what is a community of service. Here I want to make it clear that the Croatian government is saying so myself building at this time eight regional water pipelines. They'll eventually be somewhere between 12 and 15. I would like to say here that the Croatian government, which gives money to build these regional water lines and which provides money at the most, will also set the limits of the service areas for these regional water pipelines. I would also like to say here that the existing municipal companies dealing with the work of public water supply or disposal or wastewater treatment will continue to do their job. So it's still going to change the waterways, repair the water network, etc. So he'll be doing what they've been doing so far. However, it will be possible, I reiterate the possibility, because we in the Government programme have said that we will provide opportunities for 400 thousand new consumers, the possibility of public water supply, or quality and drinking water during this term of office. We know that a large part of the cities and municipalities have unquality water and that they have to condition it further. Right through the construction of these regional water pipelines, they'll all get quality and drinking water. And finally, here's just another extra sentence. It's about working in your own direction. Working on its own is intended for emergency interventions. So, if there's a crack in the master's water then there's no need for a law on public procurement, if there's a hoax at the source, etc. Thereafter, work can be done in its own direction and the rest must go according to the Public Procurement Act in the procurement process. So we can't have other businesses dealing with and living off it. The main intensity of both the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Employers' Association is that all major infrastructure projects are done through public competitions. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23734	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we have a five-minute break, so we're going on at 19.35 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23735	Thirteenth, Proposal for a Water Law. First reading, P.Z.E. No. 240. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a water law is hereby adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal for a conclusion was accepted by most votes, 75 votes for, nothing abstentions, 30 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23736	And we move to point 13, point 14. and point 15. and that is: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Land Books, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 232 Final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 233 and Final Bill on Criminal Procedure, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 116 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The Committee on Discussions, discussed: the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. I'm asking you to make a deal, given that we're uniting three laws of significance, that on behalf of the club we've been talking for 20 minutes. Is it accepted? Thank you. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23737	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. As the first of these points in the set of justice is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books in the content proposed by it refers to the harmonisation of this law with the provisions of the Law on Personal Identification Number. As you know, this House has passed the Law of Personal Identification. The law enters into force in 1.1.2009. And last week, we changed the Company Act with the same goal. It means to comply with the provisions of those laws with the I.D. Law. We introduce a slow commitment to instead of a unique...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23738	Excuse me. Excuse me. So now we're talking about the final draft law on amendments to the Law on Land Books. Please don't. I said it wrong. Excuse me. That's not true. I've listed all three of which we're going to discuss, but first we're discussing land books. Go ahead, go ahead. [[Intruder: So later.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23739	I'm moving on. So I repeat this law once again is to comply with the Law on Personal Identification. Since we have brought the Personal Identification Number Act into all public registers where we have a unique parent number we introduce changes and instead of a unique home number, we introduce the parent number as an identification code of the personal identification number. It is this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books that we do in the segment of land books as a register of property rights in the Republic of Croatia. A very short law that regulates that, in fact, all the documents that are the basis for acquiring and making available the right of ownership, which so far had to be marked as an integral part of a single parent number. By way of derogation from this Act, they have an obligation to contain a personal identification number within themselves. We also regulate Article 2 that land-booking court decisions on entries made in connection with the acquisition of real estate and property rights subject to a tax liability must contain this personal identification number. All preparatory actions related to practical application and practical introduction in registers at the Ministry of Justice are carried out and we will be fully prepared means installing this system that requires us the Law on Personal Identification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23740	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23741	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is this amendment and the addition of the Law on Land Books, which we are today discussing the bill with the final proposal, we can actually say that it is an upgrade or implementation of the Law on Personal Identification. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports these amendments and additions to the law, above all, because we believe that this is a contribution to further transparency in the registration of real estate. Namely, the reform, the land-book reform is one of the main segments of the entire reform of the judiciary, and it is this reform that goes towards establishing the unity of land-book and cadastre data, so certainly in establishing full transparency and accuracy of the registration of real estate. It is precisely in this sense that since the start of land-booking reform, it has actually been reduced by the backlog and is fully available on the Internet for any real estate traffic. As a good anti-corruption tool, we have passed the Law on the Identification Number after it is prescribed for reasons of protection of personal data that the use of the unique home number of citizens should not be requested. That is why we are witnessing, as well as in land-booking traffic, that there have been many replacement identities, of course, perhaps on purpose or by accident, especially in rural areas where there are many people with the same name and last name. Therefore, this is a good tool for a better, clearer, more transparent, more transparent registration of land-book traffic and implementation, in fact, of the Law on personal identification numbers, preventing abuse of both rights and avoidance of duties. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will also support the proposed amendments to the Committee on Justice and to the Committee on Law to improve the text of this law, and then provide for one solution to the situation in which an amendment was made before the adoption of the Law on Personal Identification Number, so as such it cannot even contain it. And it is equally clear that these provisions refer to procedures, i.e. do not refer to procedures initiated before the entry into force of this law. Here in terms of supporting these changes as a further anti-corruption tool, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23742	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23743	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. A small but significant amendment to the Land Book Act. Namely, if we know that land books are a system of state records of property rights and real estate and on them based rights and that in good countries old traditions and the rule of law there is a declared principle of trust from the land book, then nothing happens in land books without a solution. This amendment and supplementation proposal only happens on the ownership list. The owner, apart from the name and last name, will receive his identification number from the time of entry into force of this law for changes arising from that time. So, in traffic when something happens. However, this raises several questions. Is this increasing legal certainty in transport or once again raises the question of what is going on with owners who are now listed for whom the state does not guarantee because the principle of trust in land books has been delayed by the law until February of next year, and we are introducing a new important element. I agree that it is an important element and welcome, but it will remain in the land books of most owners or the largest number of owners that will not have the identification number that we are talking about here. And they're going to take out their land-book excerpts and put their rights into circulation without that I.D. number. Only one part of the kid's gonna have that I.D. number. So we're going to have two kinds of land books with and without. This law doesn't solve it. The fact that we have not declared the principle of trust in land books is the basis for investor confidence and security in transport. This should be taken into account when it comes to such a law and set a time limit when landowners will be associated with an identification number for all owners and for all real estate. Without that, we won't be able to connect the I.D. card and the I.D. As far as I'm concerned, I.D.'s and I.D.'s are concerned. The identification number exists in the countries of the European Union and it is not, as I say, available without legal interest, it is neither a secret. But anyone looking for an I.D. number and data related to him must prove a legal interest in why he's looking for it. I specifically studied this and I received such data when we linked our tax number to the property cards in the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest, so we found that our tax cards have 3 parts and that they don't correspond to each other. So let's go back to the I.D. number and get him into the land books. We are for that, we will support the law, but we think that the law has not regulated the problem of entering an identification number into the land books. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23744	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23745	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. In view of the adoption of the Law on Personal Identification Number, which enters into force on 1 January 2009, the need for the normative regulation of the Law on Land Books is indicated. In the light of the above, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council and the European Parliament and of the Council on the basis of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the EEA Agreement’). Thus, the proposal for a law on the issue of a solution which allows the book is bound by the parties to the procedure to provide a personal identification number and from the date of the assignment of the personal identification number. Since the personal identification number determines and assigns by 31 December 2010, the content of the parties' requests shall be prescribed in the procedure of granting a personal identification number. In addition, land-licensed court decisions in enrolments carried out in connection with the acquisition of real estate and real estate rights must also include a personal identification number from the date of its assignment. The proposal for a law also provides for the obligation to identify the personal identification number of all rightholders in the procedures for the establishment, renewal and addition of land books as in land-based and book-based correct procedures. Since the establishment of a common information system is a register of land registers and catastras and in order to ensure the electronic availability of data as well as the way in which these data are used, it is proposed that this material be governed by a sublegal act, i.e. the Internal Design Regulation, the management of land books and the conduct of other business in the land-book departments of courts. These legislative changes will ensure the application of a personal identification number, as well as other procedural issues in the work of land-booked courts, which are related to the application of a personal identification number, which is why I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books, as well as the proposed amendments to the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23746	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. State Secretary, esteemed Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23747	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the support this law has obviously received in the debate. I'd just like to refer to Mr. Lek's esteemed representative. True, they exist in land books recorded as owners of a natural person whose name we have a unique home number and there are others by whose name we have no unique birth number, it is not disputed. And for these individuals who have a unique home number, it's going to be a lot easier for us to do and when we have information about a personal identification number it's going to be a lot easier to coordinate, for these other people, of course, it's going to be harder. However, I would like to say that there is a major project under way of a common information system where, in cooperation with the State Geodetic Administration, we are working on a whole new database that we are entering data from both land books and catasters. We Harmonize these data and then, in fact, in one de facto register, we will have united data and related to the cadastre and related to the land books and in that process, of course, it is not a process that will end overnight, it is a long-term job, but in that process we will actually achieve the clarity that it was about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23748	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23749	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on land books, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 232. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Justice. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. State Secretary Marina Dujmović Vukovic. Here's the Justice Committee. Amendment one to Article one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23750	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23751	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment two to Article three.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23752	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23753	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. I Amendment three to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23754	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23755	It becomes an integral part of the bill. And the Legislative Committee, Amendment 1 to Article 1?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23756	It is accepted in the section because the second part is consumed by the amendment of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23757	So you accept that Justice Committee. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23758	It shall be adopted in the section so that the amendments to the Legislative Committee are adopted in Part 1 of the added paragraph 3 of the article add the words which occurred after the date of entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23759	Does the chairman of the Legislative Committee accept such a formulation?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23760	We accept the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23761	Okay. Second amendment to Article 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23762	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23763	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3. in Article 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23764	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23765	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 4th of Article 4th of the Treaty on the
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23766	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23767	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Thank you. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The Law on Land Books, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books was adopted by the majority of votes, 98 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 14 against the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23768	- Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 233 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Law. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivan Šimonovic, minister of justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23769	Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. The next two items of the agenda are a proposal to amend the Penal Code and a proposal for a new Criminal Procedure Act. These proposals include the key content of the announced anti-mafia package in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. First things first, about changing the Penal Code. Our Penal Code has been completed several times already. We need a more conceptual new Penal Code. I will appoint a task force to make it by the end of the year, and I expect it to complete its work by autumn 2009. The amendments to the Penal Code that I am proposing today therefore include only the most hasty and simplest content. The amendments provided for in the proposal may be systematised in four groups. In the first group, there are amendments to which the Penal Code is brought into line with international law and both the Conventional Laws of the United Nations and of the Council of Europe and the acquis of the European Union. The second group includes those changes that strengthen criminal opposition to organised crime and corruption. The third group of amendments seeks to improve the protection of children and minors against sexual abuse. Finally, in the fourth group, there are several amendments that remove some indetermination of the existing legal text or are nomotechnically modified. The harmonisation of the Penal Code with international law is mainly about terrorism. In this respect, the most important amendment to Article 169 is that of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the The Penal Code in order to comply with the Framework Decision of the Council of the European Union on the fight against terrorism. Article 169 is amended as follows: The Penal Code shall be amended in the name and content to comply with the definition of terrorism referred to in Article 1 of the Framework Decision by removing the distinction between terrorism and international terrorism. At the same time, by eradicating the criminal part of anti-state terrorism Article 141 and the criminal part of the diversion of Article 143, the duality of terrorist incriminations in the light of the protection, anti-state and international terrorism which is in line with the requirements of the European Commission as well as trends in comparative law shall be abandoned. In addition, new acts of public encouragement to terrorism have been introduced, i.e. Article 169a and the recruitment and training of terrorism in Article 149b of the KZ in order to comply with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. In order to comply with the International Convention on the Prevention of Part of Nuclear Terrorism, Article 172, the abuse of nuclear substances has been amended and extended to ban the abuse of nuclear and radioactive material, which is a broader concept. The amendments to the Penal Code in 2007 partially comply with the text of the Convention for the Protection of Financial Interests of the European Communities, but further corrections of the legal text need to be made in order to bring full harmonisation. The proposed amendment to the provisions of Article 15(2) shall also extend to all decisions which have been finalised by the parties to the procedure in another State. In this respect, it is also proposed to amend the transitional and final provisions of Article 190a in order to prescribe that the provision of Article 15(2) shall apply from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The most important changes concern strengthening the instruments against organised crime and corruption. One of the key measures to effectively combat organised crime and corruption is the confiscation of illegally acquired assets. New Article 82. The KZ represents only the heart of the anti-mafia package and therefore deserves a more detailed comment. This Regulation shall enter The KZ is based on the principle that no one can retain the property benefit achieved by a criminal offence. This benefit shall be taken away by a court ruling which determines that the offence has been committed, but if it is a work of the jurisdiction of the USKOK, therefore part of organised crime and corruption is assumed to have been acquired by the perpetrator’s total property by criminal act and shall be taken away unless the perpetrator makes it likely that its origin is lawful. In order to avoid the robbery of property being hidden by its transfer to other persons, it is predicted to be taken away even when it is legally based on the perpetrator’s spouse or extramarital partner, and other relatives. The wrongly acquired property benefit will also be taken away when fictitious legal transactions have been transferred to third natural or legal persons who have not acquired it in good faith. This amendment to the Penal Code creates favourable conditions for a successful operation to remove organised crime and corruption from Croatian society. Jumping departments are also responsible for punishing mobsters and for confiscating their assets starting their work by January 1st 2009. This booth still resonates with the cynic sayings that he's bailing on it. After adopting this amendment, it will no longer be true, but it will be worth who tries to bail again will be taken away from him all that he has ever pitted. In Article 175, trade in human beings and slavery has added a new qualified form of criminal offence, its initiation by the official person. Article 175(2) also criminalises child trafficking for illegal adoption. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Penal Code has been amended in the name of money laundering modeled for parallel law and has been supplemented in content. According to the current legal solution, the object of the store is money, i.e. I quote: "The object or the right of the money provided to the person who knows it was obtained by a criminal act." Such a formulation excludes the possibility of prosecution if criminal acts are directly supplied to anything other than money, e.g. some object, right or some other property benefit. By amending paragraph 1, the facility also extends to items, rights or property benefits which the perpetrator knows was created or obtained by criminal acts. One of the ways organised crime strives to influence criminal justice is an inappropriate influence on witnesses and other persons who may cooperate with law enforcement authorities. Privileges and other forms of influence are most often and not directed against persons who, in a formal sense, already have witness status, but against those whom members of organised criminal groups assume that such status could be acquired during the procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Penal Code and the so-called So-called Penal Code. Presumptive witnesses are protected from illegal pressures. Furthermore, the existing criminal offence of detecting the identity of the protected witness referred to in Article 305a of the Penal Code shall ensure criminal protection exclusively against the person already involved in the protection programme. The extension of this provision and to the person who is or will be examined as a protected witness in the criminal proceedings shall ensure enhanced criminal protection of those persons, as well as the social interest of more effective control of organised crime. I'm moving on to proposals on improving child and minor protection against sexual abuse. According to current solutions of the institution dealing with education, education, care and care of children and minors in the employment of new employees, they cannot obtain any insight into the criminal record of whether the candidate has previously been convicted of criminal offences in Chapter 14, so crimes against sexual freedom and disorder. According to this amendment, data from the criminal record shall be made known to the person who has been duly convicted of a criminal offence under Chapter 14 of the Criminal Code only provided that those offences are involved, that a reasoned and justified request has not yet been made and that rehabilitation has not yet taken place for those acts. The circle of authorising officers to access criminal records is extended to the solution so far, yet limited only to those entities registered to carry out the activities of education, care, care and education of children and minors. As regards other exceptions in the context of the possibility of using data from criminal records, data from the criminal record of the security measure imposed on the prohibition of the conduct of calls, activities or duties on the perpetrator of a criminal offence will be supplied exceptionally to the authorities responsible for keeping a register of persons carrying out the activities concerned. And finally, from the amendments which remove some indeterminates of the existing legal text, an important amendment to Article 308 of the play, a ban on security measures and the legal consequences of the conviction. In contrast to the solution under which the criminal responsibility has been made, only the person subject to the security measure has been able to implement these measures, this amendment is incriminating and avoiding those measures by the person concerned. The other changes are mostly nomotechnical, so I wouldn't particularly comment on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23770	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the club is Honored Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23771	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club, I will say immediately, supports the adoption of amendments to the Penal Code and for us is a bigger problem of what is not there, and what we expected in these announcements that the law will contain than what is being studied, or envisaged in it. But let me say something on behalf of the SDP club before certain provisions, given that this is a final bill. In fact, when a country's penal law is passed as a whole, or at least if it is partially changed, it is causing a great suspicion and great public interest. It's important to one country. Why? Because it's perfectly normal, because criminal law is one way, criminal law, how one society, how one state fights crime. In addition, citizens have the right to know how to regulate their behavior. What kind of social behavior for this political set of things is dangerous, and what will this be meant to be as a crime? These are the elemental things that citizens are entitled to. And see if this is normal, is it normal for murders to happen on our streets in broad daylight in the middle of the afternoon? And we're passing criminal law, we want to be effective against this same mob that's not afraid of anyone and nothing in the middle of the afternoon because of the most severe and most deadly crimes, endangers the lives of the innocent, kills the most innocent. And we don't want anyone to see us at night, so the mobsters don't hear that we're harassing them with these laws. Is that normal in this country? It's not. Something's not normal. That is what yusticia et pax is talking about, a Croatian bishopial conference that says the government does not want to fight corruption. In Croatia, says Archbishop Bozanic, there is no real will of the government and the judiciary to prosecute and eradicate corruption. That's what the Commission's statement of yusticie and pax says. We want to believe that's not the case, because any doubt about it is the courage of our common enemies, and these are the mobsters. But this situation this night, about such an important law to discuss, it's not normal, it indicates that the state is terrified. She almost capitulated before crime, in front of dangerous criminals, in front of corrupters and in front of corrupts. So, the way I'm doing is not good. Otherwise, what is cited and well-supplyed in the proposal is good. But it's not good what's not there, and that's what we're warning you about. Here you can see immediately in Article 2 of the amendment that no one can retain the property benefit achieved by a criminal act, etc. talk about how the existing provision is being developed, how these assets and the whole series of laws will be taken away. This is where we heard from Mr. Minister that it will not be possible for the principle of who has been pitting, it's a pit. Well, look where you're lucky, 'cause the old latins would say I'm going to die where you're lucky. But it's not. Because if we look at the Final Proposals of the Criminal Procedure Act, which states in Article 206 that at the request of a state attorney, police, ministry, etc. all have to provide bank information on the property. And then you have a famous one, except for those who represent the law-protected secret. And it's over. And who are you going to catch? Whose property you'll take away when the bank says, no, that's for us a banking secret. And whose property will you block? And what would a state-of-the-art lawyer ask the bank for anyway? To ask what kind of banking products they offer for the current year. So come on, please. So this should change urgently, if you're serious about what we've done here. So we're not gonna play handcuffs and storks, so don't let them dive in and then put in a big tall bowl with a tight potato throat. Yeah. There's a lot of expression to be made, because it's serious stuff. And there's nothing we can say that we're giving, and there's nothing to do with the other law. So our fight against corruption is really paper. We need to have an open conversation. And to work together to make as good a law as possible, to make us as effective against this common monster as possible. Therefore, in order for this article 2 and for all others who speak in order to take advantage of the property and make any sense, it is necessary to seriously consider what is going on with this banking secret. Bank secret is the main protector of money launderers. And it's no invention whatsoever. It's an alphabet of struggle. I am pleased that in the criminal act of article 169, the government finally prescribed after eight years of terrorism what we had back in 2003. and, in general, a whole series of changes relating to the increase in criminal penalties are on the trail of the 2003 novel. That's good. However, we lost a little time. All the changes to the Penal Code in good deeds that have taken place in the last five years have been a little bumpy from this 2003 novel that was then welcomed to the knife. But it's obvious that good things only have one flaw that doesn't come at the right time. But here's better ever than never. It is good to see that finally money laundering gets its real name, as was the case in the November 2003 article 279, because it really is one of the most serious crimes. And once again, we can't fight money launderers, nor can we declare ourselves a money launderer, and that will certainly be so unless these proposed standards on protected banking secrets come to pass, which, for the first time, brings criminal legislation in a broader sense. That's not allowed. Until we fought so proclaimedly, we had a corrupt and installed banking secret in the CAP. Well, it never was. So it's not going. There's something wrong with that. I don't know if it's a banking lobby or what it is or who's doing it, but it doesn't matter whose lobby it is. Lobby always has, but such abuses need to be resolutely resisted, and in this you will have our full support and alliance. I would like to point out that, finally, here is the basic piece of money laundering referred to in paragraph 1. They're going to be jailed from six months to five years. I have to point out that we haven't had this crime in eight years, because there's no punishment, you know. Zero points, son of a son, lies a zeroum crim, son of a lie. The SDP Club has been waiting for the Constitutional Court's decision for 3 years, but the Constitutional Court otherwise responds to our constitutional lawsuits to become groundless, so now this will become groundless because we will all vote for this law, or for the establishment of this crime and punishment. But the question has to be raised publicly, what about those convicts who were convicted by law? Because as you know, the secretary's conclusion has been amended by the Penal Code. This was not done in those bearded times, and in the eastern countries that were even more rigorous than it was in Croatia, and when they ruled in this political space some other creation. So, what's gonna happen to that convict? The government, although it has been proven to have committed an act because it was not in the law, will still ask the state for compensation for damages and all sort of strange stubbornness. Well, it's a good thing there's a "temporary tract" that stubbornness is gone. It took a lot, but there should have been a rebellion. Furthermore, a whole series of these other laws do not need to be changed in particular, and some are in the sense of signed conventions that are not at all controversial. Some are on the trail of greater protection of the European Union, which is also not controversial. However, little is really a problem with this provision of Article 25, where something that is a violation is incriminating so far. So, so far, we have had incrimination that someone who, although someone is a certain security measure, a safeguard measure, or the legal consequences of a conviction, is prohibited or not allowed, or who manages a motor vehicle, even though they are subject to a security measure. So there's always been a crime here in these political areas. If, in spite of such a ban, such an authorized person gives such a permit again, it is perfectly normal. But now you're seeing a sanctioner and a carrier or who's acting like one. This means that he will now be sanctioned and go to prison and whoever has a protective measure against driving a motor vehicle. It is also questionable, therefore, and that we have no problem with prison at all, that we have no place to put them there should really be reserved for a little more dangerous and deadly perpetrators, above all for those who get pointlessly small sentences and you haven't changed here the traffic incrimination that needs to be sharpened. He who drives three drunks, four kills for him is always the law somehow merciful. But all repression will happen to these some kind of administrative offenders. We're not going to exaggerate any such offense, but something that is also theoretically questionable, something that was a violation, which the Criminal Court has now established, so that's the basis for something to be a crime. So let's not underestimate ourselves, and let's not underestimate the Penal Code. Let's really keep him on track to sharpen that criminal blade, the criminal-legal blade, to focus on the real perpetrators. Unfortunately, they have again remained out of the scope and interest of this government. And who are they? They're first of all white collar criminals, so-called. Reverend gentlemen. These are the big businessmen no one touches today. Our economic incrimination is socialist incrimination. That comes from the state's attorney's report that you support every year, most of them all support but nobody does anything. We've had good economic incrimination. I know that it is not easy to put them together and so, far away in 2003, Professor Novoselac and the whole novel modeled by German law, Swiss law, but almost all European countries have the same standard of trust abuse. It's a central economic work. It is therefore intended for such structures, it is also intended for management structures, for managers, for board members and supervisory board members. And today we have such a situation that a board member and a supervisory officer said I didn't know. Maybe the man didn't know, but the vanca doesn't justify it. And that's why, in some cases, you see and it creates one legal uncertainty, it creates an irresistible urge for citizens to be involved in political crimes. The same thing for someone is being prosecuted, some members have been prosecuted by the boards of directors and supervisors, some not with a very uncertain court epilogue. Now, if it didn't happen to us we really need an economic crime that you don't have, I don't know why you're avoiding it. And what they're starting to say from the state's attorney's office is not experiencing an adequate judicial epilogue. For what? Is there still a year waiting, maybe five, six months, nine months to really cover a wave of statutes for everything I say has long been traumatized by Croatia and from which we have not recovered to this day of true justice? Trust in the institutions won't be, the people don't accept because some grandmother is being punished in criminal or judicial terms because she's fallen. That goes, there's no objection. But this kind of thing that's huge embarrasss the judiciary, embarrasss the government as a whole, embarrasss the state as a whole, and it needs to be changed urgently. We expected it. Unfortunately, that's not there. There's also no crime of breaking the law by the judge. It's a major anti-corruption act. It had to be found here. You've got a bizarre case recently from a recent practice. The PTSD guy came to the bar, killed five people. The same judicial council in the same case provides compensation for two families of those deceased, for two families of victims, for three does not give, says no, no such compensation law can be applied. Well, come on, gentlemen, it's embarrassing the judiciary, it's embarrassing all of us here because they're finally talking to us. It was a crime until 97, it went untraceable, and since then we have had inadequate behaviour and sanctioning for judicial officials. And on the other hand, we have a clear treatment for them for those who are conscious. So this crime must be designed for them right now. And one more thing. The sentence of a life sentence must necessarily be imposed for hit men, precisely those against whom Mr. Ministers announced the fight. For them, society must react in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23772	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative and vice president of the House Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23773	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the adoption of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. As pointed out, this is only one partial mini reform of criminal law, to the most extent, a harmonisation of criminal law with the acquis of the European Union with the acquis communautaire, with international law, with the Conventional Law of the United Nations and of the Council of Europe. There are provisions which are included in the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code relating to terrorism, which relate to the criminal act of diversion, to offences which are therefore generally related to terrorism and to the involvement of those offences in the Convention for the Protection of Financial Interests of the European Communities, thus protecting the financial interests of the European Union and that group of criminal offences relating to the protection of particularly sensitive categories of victims such as children and minors and finally the 4th group relating to certain irregularities of existing laws. The key and central points are the changes proposed to combat organised crime and corruption more effectively. It is the central place, the central place of this amendment and the addition of the Penal Code. The Croatian public has already "urbi and orbi" prepared for these legal changes because the whole request would have said to the entire Croatian public that was the requirement of all political parties. It was a special request and government. It was also a request from the Croatian Democratic Community to install an instrument, a tool, a scalpel that will most effectively hit the heart of organised crime and corruption, which is the adoption of the law, the adoption of a legal provision that will take away the illegal acquired assets and benefits and all the benefits which the perpetrators of the crimes committed in the part of the USKOK delinquent realize that in this way they are discouraged through one general prevention to discourage the possible perpetrators of these crimes and that those who commit these crimes will not enjoy the fruits of their crime, mob crime and that is central to that place, and that was the requirement of the general public. Therefore, when we speed up and in this segment we bring these amendments and additions to the Penal Code in this single package of Colloquium called Anti-Mafia legislation, this is only one small but important segment of the amendment of the Penal Code to regulate in one effective way the confiscation of illegally obtained property benefits to perpetrators of criminal acts from the part of the USKOK. And that's why we don't rush. We are already at a certain rate, and at the fastest possible pace, not by speeding but by the fastest possible pace, because that is what the whole public expects. So we do not carry the laws at night and all together, but simply this is what the Croatian public expects to bring forward as quickly and as quickly as possible this legal instrument that will be able to effectively, effectively take away the property benefit achieved by criminal acts in the field of USKOK, so the criminal acts of organised crime, mob crime and organised crime. In 2006, we also passed certain provisions, the legal provisions they had aimed at and directed the confiscation of property to members of criminal associations, property which was provided for criminal activities. And there was one amendment in 2006 on the basis of, in order to comply with the Framework Decision on the confiscation of assets, assets acquired by criminal acts, but it has also proved that this change is not effective and has not contributed to one radical cut that will effectively enable the confiscation of property benefit. For this reason, the central provision of Article 82 is the following: The amendment and addition of the Penal Code, which has a central place and needs to be repeated, should be repeated. What was a general requirement I say to the entire Croatian public and to the profession, the political parties is that, firstly and in principle, no one can retain the property benefit achieved by the criminal act and that there is an even stronger need to be disciplined, and that is, in the second sentence of Article 1 82, that the benefit provided by the criminal act will be taken away. We had already had in earlier novels of the Penal Code, he was an amendment of counterpart Josipovic several years ago. That's when it was busy... The position of the Minister of the time that provision 1 alone is sufficient that no one can retain the benefit obtained by a criminal offence, but I think it is a good idea and this initiative that this is being hip by a special further provision, clear that it will take away the property benefit of a court ruling for a criminal offence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Paragraph 2 which is key and relevant for this amendment states that if the offence referred to in Article 21 has been committed, The Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, which I would suggest to the Government that since there are likely to be real opportunities for certain future amendments to the Criminal Law to renumber certain provisions of the articles, not to get used to Article 21. The Law on the Office for the Prevention of Organized, Corruption and Organized Crime, rather than being blackmailed by a provision of the Part-Corruption of State, the State Attorney's Department, or the USKOK, so that these works are carried out in that section. According to the Irish model that has been successful in life, this particularly important provision is being compiled that whoever committed it... the criminal offence committed in the part-round of the USKOK that it is presumed to have its total assets, its total assets acquired as property benefit from a criminal offence unless the perpetrator commits likely that its origin is lawful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In a similar way, this means that the person against whom a criminal offence has been committed in the part of the USKOK is in force to assume that his entire property is independent of when he acquired it, when he obtained it, that that property is presumed to have been acquired by a criminal act for which this criminal proceedings were initiated. There is one possible objection that should also be considered. Is this necessary to limit time to that property acquired prior to the execution of that criminal offence or after that criminal offence? This objection can be removed in such a way that if a criminal proceedings have been initiated so that that property comes into a certain form of confiscation, the sequencing, that it will be able to prove immediately, so it will make it likely that it has legal origin of that property. I'm here, I'm being prosecuted for this crime in the part of the organized, part-round USKOK. I will prove that I am my property, a certain specific property that I acquired in a legitimate way. I'm going to do it with a probable inheritance, a donation, and before I've been prosecuted for this crime from the part of the U.S.K.K.A. And that's why I think this formulation should be accepted, because the second formula that we've also thought about would be that the time link is lost between the acquisition of property and the crime committed would lead to difficulties in life because it would be very difficult to establish and prove and make it likely that, because all those who would have been struck by the law would have just proved that this property was acquired before they were brought into action for the acts that had been committed before the criminal proceedings were committed and committed before they came under the law. And finally item three, it's that under the influence of this law come relatives. Thus, those of whom the property is, we must find a good term because this formulation that the property benefit will be taken away and when it is on any legal basis in the spouse’s spouse, an extramarital mate. It is not relevant that there is neither where it is, but it is important that it has some kind of active connection with it, and you will find a formulation that is the form of a factual relationship. And here I would also suggest that you apply the same thing in the article, in paragraph 4, where it says that the property benefit will be taken away and when, on any legal basis, it is located with another natural or legal person if it is not acquired in good faith that this same applies to these, to this circle of relatives and to this circle of relatives to interpele this good faith. I think it is crucial that the Croatian public expected this, that this legislative amendment be adopted as quickly as possible, that justice be given into the hands of that scalpel and that tool and thus hit the heart of organised mob crime and corruption. Therefore, full support from HDZ to this amendment and the addition of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23774	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23775	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Textually not excessive, but according to its content and in particular very important changes and additions to this Penal Code, the HNS Club will support and vote in favour of their adoption. We believe that it is good that these amendments and the addition of the Penal Code are systematised as said by the minister in four groups and that practically in the first group there are those changes relating to terrorism, the second group relating to those changes that improve assumptions for effective opposition to organised crime and corruption. The third group, of course, is very important in our opinion, which concerns the protection of particularly sensitive categories of victims such as children and minors and, of course, this fourth more technical group. So, the HNS Club thinks this is a continuation of our criminal law to international law, and here is the largest number of examples, of course, of practically terrorism. This includes the Republic of Croatia in a circle of countries that can and must more effectively oppose international terrorism and organised crime. We think it is particularly important that these amendments and additions of the Penal Code be introduced into Croatian material criminal law and legislation by bodies of public encouragement to terrorism and recruitment, that is to say, training for terrorism and again to comply with international law. The Convention places particular emphasis on the prevention, i.e. the removal of the causes of international terrorism, and we think that this topic is well set in a way to incriminate public provocations. So, such as recruiting and training terrorists as acts deeply affecting the human rights that they are, that criminal proceedings for these acts are initiated only after the approval of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, and that this is not left to some local situations. Also, as is said here, the key point of this law is, these amendments and additions are actually the struggle and repression of organised crime and corruption as one monster that has really gone beyond all measures, and then, of course, it is again about harmonising with that framework decision of confiscation of assets and, as we see from the reasoning so far, and we know from the practice that these confiscation measures are benefiting, it did not eventually resuscitate in the court bang and it is a good solution that it does not bind itself to time-connection, but here I join my colleague Ingrid who expressed here a reserve related to the banking secret and what could all be related to the non-implement of that provision. And now with these few remarks that are of general nature really in the best interest, well-intentioned to point out just a few things that we think might be improved in the very text of this law. Therefore, first of all, Article 2 of which is amended in Article 82(2) states that, if the offence referred to in Article 27 is committed, it shall be mentioned that The law on the anti-corruption and organised crime office is assumed to have obtained the total property of the perpetrator as one benefit unless the perpetrator makes it likely that its origin is legal. So there's a question for us about how to make something likely, whether it's just a matter of logic and common sense in the sense that they don't match, I don't know how to receive the perpetrator and his property, or if it's looking for some material evidence, or if it's all left to a judge who's going to solve this kind of thing again. Also, in that same article, paragraph 6 of the damage which, no later than 3 months after the established power of the decision to confiscate the property benefit, a criminal procedure can be initiated, says here, to settle and confiscate the property benefits. We think it should be standing here, it's going to settle down, like an imperial norm, so this form might leave room for some sort of arbitral and some other interpretations. Furthermore, we have in Article 3 of which new items are added in Article 86, and of course they are sexual crimes against children and minors. That's where you ask a few questions. How should there be an explanation that it would be considered an exception? Who approves of such an exception and one quite practical thing, based on what, for example, the manager or director of the children’s home, on what basis will we have in mind to look for information about someone? Because if he has some suspicion or some knowledge, then we think it's already a case for the state's attorney's office. Here, we have further in Article 13 which adds a new article 69a to Article 69a, we are talking here about the danger of beginning, and it connects with the idea of committing an act, so how do we prove this danger of starting because it may have really only come to spread the idea, and regardless of the desire to commit such a crime? Then we have in Article 14, which also adds a new article 69.b. We believe that terrorist camps should be added to this, so whoever provides training space or accommodation for terrorists that is also sanctioned here and I think we have another observation here, that's Article 19. We do not think that we will have a lot of problems here because it is about the acquisition of funds from the European Community budget, so it needs to be achieved first, so that it can then be taken, I think there is no problem. Here, these were really a few remarks that we think might improve the text, but we will support the law and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23776	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23777	Dear Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs, Mr. Minister with his associates. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code and the Final Proposal for a Code on Criminal Procedure. It is certain that these laws are extremely important, they are also expected here from us representatives and also from the Croatian public. The HSS supported the reorganisation of the government, the appointment and you as Minister of Justice because we really believe that those measures you announced during your appointment and in subsequent talks are necessary measures to reduce corruption and crime in Croatia to the least possible measure because they threaten the security of our citizens, but also the approximation of Croatia's European Union. Because of all the events of the past months, surely we as advocates were upset, that the citizens were also upset, that action was sought from all sides and this urgent action of the rule of law. In that sense, surely, whatever this is not about full reform, we feel that it is welcome and that it should be supported in any case. But since everything said wouldn't be so-called. A false cry for false corruption and crime, we really need concrete measures because corruption and crime are not unique to our climate. We often and import them as we import a lot of unnecessary goods, so in that sense, the measures relating to corruption and crime must be resolved and must be clear because in a cloudy fish, and Croatia should not be a country in which persecutors will be wise about human rights and where thieves will shout hold thieves. That is why we in the HSS believe that there is a need to cut the end of this network of corruption and crime, and in that sense adequate legislation is needed. The laws have a role and value despite some of their shortcomings. But we think that this anti-mafia package of laws that the Ministry of Justice is proposing here is certainly bringing in the important newspapers that they aim to calculate with corruption and crime. In addition to these alignments with international law and nomotechnical arrangements, we at HSS consider it extremely important that these changes strengthen criminal justice against crime, but also the protection of children and minors against various abuses. In particular, we consider Article 82, which is a new article relating to the confiscation of property, and we feel that it is extremely important that no one can maintain property benefit acquired by committing a criminal act, as stated in this article, and also by regulating and confiscation of property benefit when it is transferred to a spouse, to a relative or to a third party. We particularly welcome the Minister's announcement, which refers to the jumping departments that should begin work 1.1, because it has been announced in some way that special departments will be formed, and also in large cities special jumping courts will be established, that processes that are not scheduled in courts will be scheduled if all materials are prepared and so will be conducted faster and more effectively and that they will be a priority. So we expect all these points to be included and implemented, because our public is following the overall situation, looking for adequate answers and it is the duty of all of us to give these answers in due time. Of course, all these activities could be carried out that it takes both community and determination to support in activities, because our entire political democratic scene often worked in a way until one of them blacked out to others, so we remember and calls from this pay phone where some have called for a state of emergency. It has proved justified that through the reorganisation carried out through a package of legal proposals and reforms adopted, which are implemented, can in some way be calculated with corruption and organised crime and this way should also be thanked to the leaders of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, which in a very short time brought back and confidence in the system and security in our families and on our streets, it has shown that this fight against corruption and crime is a battle that Croatia can certainly win. In that sense, Mr. Minister and these laws, but also all the announced measures through a package of other anti-mafia laws and the entire reform, the HSS Representatives Club will support.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23778	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23779	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, secretary of state, secretary of state. For the first time, when it comes to laws like this, I can say that I am going to vote for them, especially when it comes to the law on criminal proceedings because it is one of the provisions that I have fought for a very long time, I have entered, and this is the article 248, and the right person with whom it has been searched or in the apartment has the right to receive a record which I truly consider a good step in the sense that even in this repressive part, we still keep the minimum of the dignity of the man where it was done especially when nothing has been found in him. I will be even happier if my amendment to Article 206(3) is accepted. Does that nod mean yes? And this again refers to the rejection, or at the time when the State's attorney, referred to in Article 206, rejects a filed application against someone because there was no basis or argument. The current solutions in the law regulate that this paper is being rejected by the applicant, but not by the person against whom the application was filed, and I think that the minimum responsibility, and the human relationship of the state lawyer to that citizen, where no fundamental elements of the criminal offence were found, would be to obtain written documents that were rejected against him. I am sorry that there are not those who file criminal charges here, and it would be good to warn them about Article 98 of the precautionary measures which are rarely applied in Croatia, because this law allows, for example, that when criminal charges are filed or the proceedings are brought, the court is asked to withdraw travel documents or travel documents and other documents for the crossing of the state border, so they would probably have fewer people who, during the course of the proceedings or at the time of the court ruling, simply leave the country. Perhaps one education or warning on this Article 98 would be extremely useful to those who address the court or...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23780	Your Honor, I'm sorry, I have to warn you because several MPs have already warned me, and I've also checked with the minister. You're talking about point 15. Final proposal of the Criminal Procedure Act, and we are at point 14. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23781	That means I'm running out of time, and I'm done.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23782	Good if it's over then it's all right. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23783	Well, that means I'll save time with one debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23784	It's all right. It's a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23785	As far as Article 82 is concerned, By the law of punishment, I wish I'd written it even stricter and more rigorously. I know that many lawyers will say that they are already offered provisions for someone who is questionable, but I see no reason to fear and worry too much about those who make fun of the whole country, who have become rich in criminal acts, and then transfer their property not only to marriage mates, children, friends, and relatives, and thus avoid the possibility of confiscation. And it really is a well-organized article in 82, but I have one dilemma. In view of the fact that Article 21 USKOK, 21st and 22nd gives USKOK the right to seek a judicial measure of temporary freezing, the blocking of property deemed to have been acquired by criminal acts, and here it is said that the entire property can be taken away and that again in court practice we have no differences in reading the law. Shouldn't the USCOD Act be complemented, changed in the way it is here. So not only the property that is considered acquired by committing a crime, but the entire property. Therefore, this particular statement in Article 82 also applies to the USKOK Act because the confiscation of assets is only possible if the freezing, temporary blocking and the property is applied before this, because by the time we get to the power of the verdict a large part and that property will no longer be in Croatia. We're all aware of that. So I'm not saying, but I'm warning and asking if there's a provision in the current article 21 and 22. The law in the USKOK relating exclusively to the suspicion of the property acquired by the criminal offence involves, or should intervene there, and it is considered that all assets are acquired by the criminal act in order to require the court to seek freezing, or block the availability of the entire assets. And I'll finish the next one. Some of us not so far away from the state after the withdrawal of assets go to the state budget and that's good. However, properties taken away by mobs and organised crime, especially agricultural land and buildings, do not go to state property, but are given to the local community for general good, social institutions, rehabilitation centres, addiction centres, organisations that work with children, that I do not now list. This is not the subject of this law, it is clear to me, but with the power of authority and argument I think it would be extremely good for your ministry, Mr. Prime Minister, to suggest that now that we have such a legal framework and the possibility of taking away property and in real estate that the necessary regulations and in that part we change and supplement in order to clearly prescribe that we withdraw money, the currency is... , goes into the state budget, and that the seized property will be given to the ownership and use of the local community because then we get another great value. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A local community of micro-centres that have suffered for years various forms of terror, violence, pressure from this very organised crime. When it feels the strength of the state that took away the crime and gave it to use the general good, it gives strong support to the state of repression and institutions involved, and then we come to the number of applications, the number of witnesses, and the carrying out of evidence procedures far easier than when the local community is completely uninterested in the topic. With the apology that I've conducted both laws in these nine minutes, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23786	Thank you, too, for the debate. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23787	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Of course I'll support this, this amendment to the Penal Code. A team before it included some ideas that this club was talking about two years ago and that the government then refused. Yet very telegraph two to three notes or questions. I support, in particular, Article 82, I think that he has made a good and broad contribution to criminally acquired property, but I warn that for such an extended takeover of property there are no appropriate procedural mechanisms in the CAP for reasons that this is a much bigger job than taking away only for a particular act and there is a risk that this will be done in the context of a criminal procedure, the procedure will take a very long time. Therefore, I think it would be worth considering how this and some other countries have a special procedure for an extended takeover of property. The other thing I'd say is. Yeah, terrorism. Of course, it also meets some international standards. It wasn't designed as an independent act, and in comparative law we come across a merger, it's so-called. A terrorist association, and it would be good to find it as an independent act. Furthermore, in Article 20, this is about money laundering. It's little, it's little to say archaicly because in many systems we have a limit for which this predicate act is possible to commit a crime of money laundering. For example, if you go to the supermarket and rob a lot of specs, then those who eat don't do money laundering, because of course it's not part of that system as it's imagined. Therefore, perhaps if we are not prepared now, then in the future Penal Code, we should consider, as some others, narrowing down the cycle of predicate crimes. And in paragraph 6, you're saying that money will be taken away from the property and the rights will be determined by nothing. Is that, first of all, whether it's a good expression that the right is going to be determined by nothing. First of all, we know that now we're talking about nothing, not nothing, and I'm afraid the rights won't just be able to undo it. In particular, it is possible that these rights belong to a third party, and in that case this provision would not be good, so I think that even if the law is invalid, it can be deleted. It'll take away the property benefit, including the right and then we'll see what happens next. Here, that was the shortest. I agree with what counterpart Antičević Marinovic said that unfortunately some things are missing in these supplements and I hope that this planned new Penal Code will make everything right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23788	Thank you. Dear representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, given the time-out, I'm going to make a very brief reference, of course, to the amendments, to the proposed amendments to the Penal Code. In principle, in Article 82, I will only say that by taking away property this way, we are actually approaching US court practice in both civil and criminal cases, which is that harmful or criminal behavior must not be paid to anyone, so that compensation, or punishment, must be proportionate. But what I have specifically reported and what I wish to emphasise and what I wish to draw attention to the Ministry and the Minister either in these amendments, or in the next amendments to the Penal Code. This is in relation to Article 85 and the data in the criminal record. In fact, in the current law, the situation is such that the ministry introduces criminal records, that criminal record data is inaccessible to everyone except the police and the court, or the state attorney's office and the court if the procedure is conducted for the authorities of the state administration if someone is employed in the state administration. I wonder why the security measures, the legal consequences of the conviction, if they are to be followed by those security measures and applied by what stems from the legal consequences of the verdict, they cannot know. Therefore, here in these amendments, I do not know why we should stress this much can allow criminal records to be seen, so that data on the safety measures given to the authorities responsible for keeping a register of persons carrying out certain activities can be provided. I note that it may be the case that a body which approves or gives a licence has no idea that a security measure has been imposed against a person who is wasting it, which is exactly the opposite of what I consider to be that the safety information on the security measures imposed should be supplied to all the authorities that grant the licence or the authorisation to carry out the particular activity. And I also believe that it must be available on the impunity information for certain offences in Chapter 14 against a child or a minor in case of employment in jobs involving children and minors. This is why I appeal if it is not possible now for an amendment intervention to certainly in the future compile of the new Penal Code, and I hope that it does not necessarily have to be a concept new law, but there must be a buildup of these 7 or 8 amendments, because we have systematically aligned them with the acquis of the European Union and all conventions. So, that no longer happens if the state administration could be employed, and recently we had such a case, a person who was legally convicted of counterfeiting, and in the same state administration, there was a work book in which a higher school or professional cook was forged, did the state body not get a notice about it. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23790	We have one replica, distinguished representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23791	... Agreeing with what she said about the article in 86, there is something that I think would be good for the government to add a position to its amendment. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Apparently, some data that is not normally available to all go from the state to one user is these institutions. It should be pointed out that they are obliged to keep that information as an official secret, right? So that those data that came from the state to the school don't have how... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23792	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23793	Thank you very much to my colleague Josipovic for supporting me in this and here, of course, that we all work at night in these late nights, not because the state got scared, don't give God the Mafia and we here, but precisely to give the judiciary tools within the framework of the legislative framework to fight and suppress organised crime and the mafia as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23794	Thank you. And distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23795	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Well, here I am reporting for the word actually as president of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, because I feel the need to point out in front of that council that for eight months on several occasions we have discussed amendments to the Penal Code in this particular article concerning Article 82, then money laundering and witness protection. Considering it three important tools for fighting corruption to be carried out in a better way. Here's the National Council that I chair is actually the supervisor of the National Programme that is officially gone. I expect that this assembly will soon receive a proposal that will bring only our National Councils in line with the strategy and action plan. It is very important that we finally move from word to action, and it is a pity that this debate is being conducted at this time, because I think it would be much better if all citizens who are monitoring the transfer of work of the Croatian Parliament had the opportunity to hear far more about what is going on with the Penal Code and which will certainly improve the fight with corruption. It is known that somehow corruption in Croatia accounts for 10 to 20% of the state budget, but if we take some conservative approach and says it carries billions of dollars, then clearly that a successful fight with corruption solves our deficit. Because this billion dollars would be a deficit that we currently have, and in this way, it would certainly be easier for the citizens of Croatia to overcome the crisis ahead and which is in the budget. Therefore, as the National Council and its president, I can say that I support these amendments and that I really hope that they will not only be on paper, but that right at the beginning of 2009, and that we will feel in reality that at last all those cases that took place during last year, that I am not now mentioning the 1990s, 400 thousand closed jobs, the mother of all the corruptions that have been created, and I hope that someone from that period will fall under this article 82 and in some way be taken away from him that property that apparently illegally acquired those 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23796	Thank you. The final review of Justice Minister Ivan Šimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23797	Thank you very much, Vice President. I just want to thank everyone briefly who participated in the debate in support of the amendments to the Penal Code, especially this formulation of Article 82, as well as useful suggestions. Some of us will be able to respect it now, and others will be very valuable to prepare the new Penal Code as well as to supplement some other laws. And I am particularly pleased that the consensus on effective measures to combat organised crime corruption has continued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23798	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23799	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 233. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 166 of these amendments, the majority of the representatives present must agree. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendment? Please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The proposal to accept the amendment debate was accepted by 113 votes in favour and 1 abstention. I ask the Government's representative to further explain the amendment. Mr. Minister Ivan Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23800	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. Only a few amendments have been tabled on the proposal to amend the Penal Code. The government accepts them all because they are useful from the aspect of the nomotechnical breakdown of text. There were no formally submitted amendments, but there were useful suggestions in the discussion to improve the text. The promoter deeply appreciates the Parliament's willingness to adopt this only heart of the anti-mafia package unanimously, so he has installed these useful suggestions in his own amendment. Article 2 of amending Article 82(3) is amended as follows: The property benefit referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article will also be deducted when it appears likely that, on any legal basis, the spouse or extramarital spouse, relatives in the vertical line, relatives in the slope line up to the third degree, and relatives in the case to the second stage, are both final and adoptors. In the previous version, paragraph 3 speaks of the confiscation of the property benefit of those family members. The current formulation that the property benefit of those family members is without reference to where it is located makes it easier to confiscate the property benefit of the perpetrator's relatives, but is, for example, located in the Sheshiles. The proposed formulation also clarifies that property benefit can be subtracted if it is deemed to be unlawfully acquired property benefit in relation to relatives. That implies the implications of the last formulation, but now it's formulated and explicit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23801	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. There's no interest in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments to the government. Let's please get involved and vote on the amendment to the government. By raising your hands. Okay. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. This amendment was adopted unanimously by 116 votes. Have you accepted the other amendments, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23802	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23803	Thank you very much. These amendments to the other Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice have been adopted. The adoption of this law requires in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure most of all MPs, i.e. 77 votes at least. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Please, let's get involved and vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 112 votes in favour and one abstention, are subject to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. Thank you, Minister. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Assembly a conclusion which reads: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to edit the text of this law before its publication in "The People's Journal". Who's to suggest this conclusion? Please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? This conclusion was adopted unanimously with 115 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23804	We're going to the next point. - Final proposal of the Criminal Procedure Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 116 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, European integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by Ms. Ingrid Antičević Marinović, MPs Dragutin Lesar and Ivo Josipovic and the Legislative Committee. Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23805	Thank you. Honorable Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. In front of you, the Final Proposal for a Code on Criminal Procedure as one of the fundamental laws of the Croatian legal order and the terms of the constitutional principles applied in relation to the state authority according to fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens in the exercise of the function of legitimate public punishment. Unlike other laws, the proposal followed the principles of four years. On the proposal itself, work lasted two years. It should be pointed out that more than 30 experts participated from the drawing up of the principle through the first working group to the editorial group. Of the five professors at the time, three participated in these bodies, three Supreme Court judges, a municipal court judge, five deputy state attorneys, four judges of county courts, a representative of the Croatian Bar Association, six police officers, etc. The proposal rests on the idea of reforming the criminal proceedings in the direction of conversion from a mixed type of criminal procedure to a criminal procedure of the acoustic type. This transformation leads to a new concept of many procedural institutions. Following this as a key reform of the criminal proceedings, the reform of the previous procedure can be singled out, a consistent separation of the data collection function for the indictment carried out by the State's lawyer from the decision-making process which is the right and duty of the judge. A judicial investigation is hereby initiated, the introduction of a criminal investigator as a body acting at the request of a state attorney, the introduction of a judge as a new decision-making body in the previous proceedings, instead of the current cumulation of the functions of research and decision-making in the person of the investigating judge, the introduction of new forms of accelerated proceedings, the resolution of easier cases through the settlement of an agreement, the short-term prosecution with the appropriate compensation of the victim, the simplification of the conduct of preparations for the debate, the extension of the scope of the parties' agreement on punishment, the reform of the shortened procedure, the improvement of procedural rules governing measures for effective action such as measures to ensure the presence and measures of the procedural discipline, the reform of the rules on certain procedural units and certain procedural actions. I'll give you a brief overview of the most important news on the heads. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It shall contain general provisions on the rights and duties of the State's These rights are regulated in accordance with the new procedural position of the State's attorney. The motion abolishs the court's investigation, no more an investigative judge, the state's attorney is the subject leading the investigation of the Dominus Litis. According to the new proposal, during the criminal proceedings, a neutral entity deciding on rights is establishing a balance between the opposing parties, the state lawyer and the defendant and, where necessary, regulating their relations. In the previous procedure, there is primarily the judge of the investigation and later the second body of the court. In the previous procedure, he decides but no longer investigates. In the previous procedure, the judge becomes a guarantee of the protection of rights and freedoms, the third in the conflict between the two sides. Chapter 5 is governed by the rights of the victim and the damages. For the first time in Croatian law, these provisions introduce a victim among participants of special rights proceedings. The victim has been defined in terms, taking into account the notional definition in international sources and foreign legislation. The victim has special rights because the criminal act violated her right, not because it caused damage. The proposal introduces quite certain duties of the body of criminal proceedings in dealing with the victim. It should be further mentioned that the legal position of the victim is also defined according to some important personal traits of a child, a minor, a victim of a crime against sexual morality. This sought to regulate the right to respect the victim's privacy as a person who had already experienced the trauma of committing a criminal offence and to prevent or at least reduce secondary victimisation by inappropriate treatment during the procedure. Chapter 9 shall be governed by measures to ensure the presence and other precautionary measures. Because of the human rights procedure, these provisions have special importance. In this part of the proposal, significant news has been introduced in relation to the current CAP, three of which are particularly important. Detention as the first and short-term measure to ensure the presence of a state lawyer who replaces detention towards the current CAP. An appeal to the state's attorney's decision is decided by the judge of the investigation. Another important news has to do with the conduct of the arrests. The proposal sets out that the arrester surrenders himself to a special authorised police officer, a detention officer responsible for the arrester and detainee. The officer is responsible for the legality of the arrest and the regularity of dealing with the arrestee and the detainee, so the person deprived of liberty at the time until she is not in the prison of investigation. The detention supervisor is not involved in the investigation of a criminal offence. The third news is an investigative prison, which may take longer time before a court ruling. It's a substance detention against the current CAP. Chapter 17 refers to the investigation. There are provisions on a new state-owned law enforcement investigation as part of a reform of criminal procedural legislation that is of paramount importance. The news is that an investigation can also be carried out against an unknown perpetrator. A familiar condition relative to the current CAP has been reduced. The main news of the proposal is that the investigation is conducted by a state attorney alone or entrusted by a warrant to conduct an investigation or police action. The suspect doesn't have a legal remedy against the warrant. The investigator is the new subject of Croatian criminal proceedings. It's a person who, under legal authority, takes actions under the orders of a state attorney. The judge of the investigation is also a new entity in the Croatian criminal proceedings. It shall decide on the whole of the complex and mutually conditional relations of the participants of the proceedings. The judge in particular decides on procedures in the freedom and rights of citizens. In addition, the judge of the investigation shall carry out an evidence hearing in the law of the intended cases. A special place, given the importance, has a provision that regulates the content of the lesson on rights. It is a novelty in the Croatian criminal procedure. This provision not only provides for certain content of the lesson on rights but also of the time in which it must be delivered to the defendant during the course of the proceedings. In Chapter 18, there are rules on evidence stores. An important innovation has been introduced in the search. An emergency search of the person and means of transport under specific prescribed conditions shall be carried out on the basis of a national legal order. The search warranted by the state's attorney is subject to a later court order. Chapter 24 contains provisions for exceptional legal medicinal products. The most important thing is the novelty of abandoning these medicinal products from the system of exceptional mitigation of penalties. The common rules of the shortened procedure are in Chapter 25, and Chapter 26, which regulates the procedures for issuing a criminal order and giving a court notice. The shortened procedure is based on the proposal for criminal offences for which a prison sentence is prescribed for up to 12 years. It's a general provision. By law, certain offences are excluded from the general provision and are subject to regular proceedings. The decision-making area of the state's attorney has been expanded according to the principle of opportunity. The number of criminal acts has been reduced. For offences for which a shortened investigation procedure is prescribed, in no case shall it be mandatory. The introduction of new forms of accelerated procedures in the regular and shortened procedure follows modern legislative tendencies in the most developed European countries. This is what I aim to achieve two key objectives. The first dispensation of courts from holding discussions in cases where the situation is such that they can be terminated without debate or with a debate only on the imposition of sanctions. In addition to appropriate application practice, significant acceleration of the process can be expected, reduction of the total number of hearing hearings and long-term very significant budgetary savings. The second objective is to concentrate the court on cases in which a debate is needed because of their weight or complexity. This, in addition to appropriate practice, should be important to raise the quality of the process and improve the dynamics of team work, as a rule to complex subjects. The expanded whole of accelerated procedures in the new CAP could result in a reduction of the number of complete debates for the circus 40%, with appropriate practice in the shortened procedure. This is very significant for the entire area of criminal trial. Transitional and final provisions have great importance given that many issues have to be regulated by specific laws and regulations. The proposal provides for a stepwise entry into force of the transitional and final provisions until the adoption of a specific law, the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act on Real Jurisdiction, Articles 16 to 22 and Chapter 29 and 30 will apply. The first have to regulate the Law on the Organisation of Courts and the second Law on Rehabilitation and Compensation to Unfounded Arrested and Convicted Persons. The provisions of the Law on Courts governed by the Organisation and the jurisdiction of the courts will apply from the entry into force of the Criminal Procedure Act. In the Croatian Parliament, the following conclusion was reached after the debate on the Bill's Proposal in Criminal Procedure at a session held in July 2008: "The Proposed Code on Criminal Procedure is hereby adopted." All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. After first reading the text of the draft was submitted to all relevant bodies, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the State Attorney's Office. The Academy of Legal Sciences also organised a thematic meeting on 30.9.2008, and the Ministry of Justice round table on 12.11.2008. Since June 2008, there have been only a few objections and proposals from the state authorities, above all, from the ministries that have been discussed, and some have been respected. Compared to the text of the draft law which was at the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, certain differences arised in the final proposal as a result of respecting the proposals and opinions from the debate in the Croatian Parliament of the Ministry of Interior, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, the participants of the thematic sessions of the Croatian Academy of Legal Sciences and the Round Table. In relation to the text of the Code on Criminal Procedure, which passed the first reading of most of the remarks introduced, the nomotechnical and technical nature and of the major substantive changes are as follows: Article 10 of the proposal introduces a new paragraph 4 which provides that the judicial decision cannot be based solely on the evidence provided by the infringement of the Constitution, the Constitution, the law or international law of the guaranteed rights of defence, the rights of dignity, the reputation and honor and the right of non-violability of personal and family life in the procedure for serious forms of criminal offences for which the infringement of the rights in respect of strength and nature is significantly less than the severity of the offence. Furthermore, Article 216 of which refers to the conduct of the investigation by considering the occurrences of criminal offences in practice accepted the suggestion that the mandatory conduct of the investigation is limited only to the most serious offences and that in other cases it depends on the judgment of a State lawyer. The indictment is always subject to judicial investigation and the defendant has the right and duty of a possible indictment which is not sufficiently justified to return to the supplement, and in the law provided for by the Court of Justice may dismiss those charges. In Article 248, which regulates the conduct of the search of the apartment and of the person who has entered the obligation to submit a copy of the records on the search of the apartment or person to whom the search is carried out. In Article 265, the first sentence of banking secrecy is left out because the bank secret is governed by other regulations. The law prescribes a way of obtaining information which is a secret bank by installing the issue in certain cases by a special law on USKOK. The provisions of Article 327 have been amended in a way that is now subject to the obligation of the body conducting the criminal procedure to take samples of biological material for a criminal offence for which a sentence of at least 6 months is prescribed. It is also prescribed in paragraph 6 that data collected by molecular-genetic analysis shall be kept as a rule for 20 years. An important amendment to Article 501 which regulates the renewal of proceedings and where it is explicitly prescribed that criminal proceedings may be renewed regardless of the presence of convicts. We also state the differences that have arisen and related to transitional and final provisions. The proposal provides for certain provisions to enter into force on 1 January 2009. These are provisions relating to the secrecy of the investigation and the renewal of the proceedings. Application of the law in the cases referred to in Article 21 On 1 July 2009, and the final application of the law in all criminal cases since 1 September 2011, the USKOK Act provides that the whole of 1.1.2009 with these exceptions is to enter into force. This would briefly change anything in relation to the proposal and the final proposal for the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23806	Thank you. The Justice Committee, European integration, legislation. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23807	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues say the CAP is a small constitution. The small constitution because it regulates the very sensitive rights of citizens, regulates and functions of the state, and it is indeed a shame to discuss this period at this time of night. It's really a shame that the law in the final version got practically two and a half days ago if I calculated correctly and I don't know if and how many there are, maybe the few of us who have been able to read the law from the beginning to the end in the last version and I don't think that's how this law is discussed and adopted. Unfortunately, when the law is looked at, I must say that those praises we gave to the KZ cannot be repeated with regard to the CAP for the reason it is not a law which, in my opinion, has not achieved the purpose for which it was written. Why is the law changed? We changed the concept of the law because it was a thesis, a valid thesis that the existing model was not good enough because it wasn't efficient enough, it wasn't fast enough, primarily because a judicial investigation has the effect that the same material is about the original statements, the presumptive ones, as a rule of the presumptive witnesses and the defendants are three times stretched. First in front of the police, then in front of an investigative judge, and then in the end at the hearing. The idea was, then, to abandon the model of a judicial investigation so that the matter would be accelerated, that what was so far a reconnaissance and that it was a summed up investigation into a new prosecution investigation that would actually speed things up. It's kind of done, but it's done in one way that it speaks, so I'd say about not understanding the concept. Why? A pattern has been taken almost to say the existing law and institutions have been amended, and there are no conjectures that apply to both the evidence process and the level of knowledge, including human rights. I think this law will lead to a serious imbalance of human rights. We'll see about that later and what. The first misunderstanding we have is I'd say principled nature. If we look at the statistics of a state lawyer in Croatia in front of courts, 87% of cases are successful. This means that our state attorney and the court that he's been following are actually doing their job very well, at least according to these statistics, and we know that dissatisfaction exists and that very clearly indicates that the main problem of our inefficient judiciary is not in the Criminal Procedure Act, but somewhere else, and that ineffectiveness lies in what did not come before the court at all, in what was not known, could not or would not be discovered, brought before the court. That is why, of course, this is reflected in certain solutions in the law. Namely, if we have turned the investigation into a prosecutor's investigation and are now based on the grounds of doubt, so on certain evidence, then in this new prosecution investigation, the rights and obligations of citizens and the positions of citizens cannot be the same as in that investigation based on the grounds of doubt, which is a much higher standard which means that the likelihood of conviction against the existing material is greater than the acquittal. That's why it's inadmissible that in a case like this, detention takes six months as well as a court investigation. So, she did not withdraw the conjecture to sum up the reconnaissance and a new investigation, that earlier with a lower standard as it is in the countries that have this model of the prosecution investigation going into the main debate, which probably wouldn't have been 87% of the successes, but it's consistent application of the concept. There are also certain differences that I do not know how to resolve. For example, that's what we're saying I might tell you again, but to my colleagues here to hear. The investigation is therefore based on the grounds of suspicion, on a lower standard, and the detention in the investigation on reasonable suspicion, therefore on a higher standard. And the reasonable doubt is the basis for bringing charges. And so, if we have a level of suspicion of what the hell we're investigating. So there is one illogicality that is difficult at logical and procedural level of resolve. Also, the current concept seriously undermines the principle of gun equality. The investigation has been set up so that, of course, the investigation leads to its solution, starts and runs by the state's attorney, and it is expected that the parirate should be another party, the defendant who, of course not according to this concept, is either set up or realistically, is not objective to expect it, because the investigation would neither have procedural mechanisms, nor can force citizens to give defence statements and ultimately peak. In the hearing file, the material collected by the defense is entered only if the state's attorney agrees. What is the equality of parties? What's that? So that's one serious, principled objection to gun equality, and I think that's something to take care of. There's a lot of inconsistency and I'd even say contradictions in certain provisions that maybe now let's talk about the concept here in 15 to 10. Maybe they don't even need the amendments that I put on, because they're actually examples I'd say 10 or how many amendments here if we had something, that maybe the most critical things try to fix. But I'm saying, there could be a lot more of them. For example, we also have an exotic provision, and we have an important new one I'm not going to say is an exotic, important new provision regarding the treatment of illegal evidence. The treatment of illegal evidence is such that they are absolutely excluded in Croatia today in the decision-making process while the new concept foresees so-called. the system of weighing of interest. Therefore, if there is illegal evidence, it can even be used when making a decision if it is of more serious interest to punish the perpetrator than to preserve that value, it violated the right to illegal evidence. But you didn't do it, I'm talking to you, the government in procedural norms and court, the hearing court has been denied that evidence is even valid. Why? Because before that, you have a whole series of bodies that are obliged to isolate that material, so the debate court doesn't even know what it has to scale to get it out because it simply doesn't know that this material exists. It's one of those serious examples of inconsistency. Then we have some while we're at exotic provisions, there's an absolute exclusion of private files and logs from evidence, so for example, if you have a mass rapist who describes in his diary how he rapes every day, then we won't be able to confiscate such a diary, we won't be able to base a decision on it, because it will be excluded in the previous phase. He never will. It can't even be seized, let alone be used afterwards. So it's one thing for me to do with an unimaginative provision that might have run into the first ball, the need to protect privacy without what it really means. Yeah? Furthermore, we have provisions concerning some new things, which are not clear why or could I suggest why they appeared. There is, for example, no extraordinary legal remedy, a request for exceptional mitigation of penalties. I've heard some arguments that even such a thing can be achieved by pardoning, early release, etc. But it can't, it's different institutes with different purposes, different backgrounds, and in fact, as the only reason they can objectively suggest that courts are reluctant to do such things. Apparently, the judges sitting in the task force didn't resist calling it a little easier. That's why, here's the amendment I suggested he come back, although I suppose it's quite a utopian expectation. We have a further major problem which also concerns the equality of parties in the process, the treatment of the defendants at the time of the debate. In fact, consistently implementing the acoustic model, forgetting that we are neither America nor the civilizational achievements, where I think ours are bigger in many aspects than in America, at least as far as some aspects of human rights are concerned. We ignored the fact that the defendant can be in a position that he can't contribute evidence because he doesn't, because he can't, or in the front row because there's no money. In fact, the defense to carry out an investigation in order to be equal to a state's attorney has to invest money. No private detectives or lawyers in the investigation are going to lead a defense investigation for free. Therefore, since we do not have a public defence institution, whoever has no money is unfortunately at the mercy of the state and that social component I don't think should forget. It's a team worse that's been kicked out of the text of the law so-called. Inquisitor maxes, therefore, the court is concerned only, or only appreciates the evidence presented by the parties, no longer cares as it has been so far about the interest of the defence and the interest of the indictment and there is no possibility of carrying out the evidence itself. It's a flaw that will again feel the worst side, the weakest side, the poor defendants, the ignorant people who will often be in a situation that may not be guilty, can't comply with the charges. In that sense, you also have amendments that return to a certain extent the principle of inquisitor maximum to the text of the law and I think it would be a real shame not to decide to return to the inquisition maximum to the law. There are other details, but maybe if I don't bother you right now, there are other findings, there's been a large set of criminal lawyers held in Opatija. I think it was interesting, and you were, there were a lot of interesting remarks, sharp criticisms, there were also praises, of course commendation we also don't bypass in some aspects. And it's a shame that there's so little time between the law being passed in the House and deciding that serious amendments can't be done. I'd like to say something, let's do this while we're at exotics. Again, you have introduced an extraordinary legal remedy against the decisions of the former Yugoslavia's courts. I assume it's the echo of the initiative to prosecute in a known case with the right. That's a valid reason, but the way you listed it here, I don't know if it'll make anything possible. First of all, I don't know why you're just a military court of the former Yugoslavia, as if he's the only one who has abused political power, and secondly, you've actually limited it to a person who has a permanent residence in Croatia and citizenship. I'm not sure that's in accordance with the constitutional principle of equality in front of the court that you've ruled out some categories, say foreigners, why would they rule out foreigners if they were also convicted. That's one thing. And second of all, you're saying that an extraordinary legal remedy will be filed in accordance with the provisions of this law. These are the same legal medicines that you have under the current law and for most of them the deadline has expired, whether or not there is only a requirement for the renewal of proceedings that you can do both in old and new, and if it is about, if we think of the same case, then the same purpose can be done without this provision which does not make much sense simply by renewing the procedure where the State's attorney would request a renewal in favour of the convicts and then by corresponding his statement, with the qualification of what happened, giving up the charges in the retrial procedure. So, this lock on the 570s and 571s, which looks pretty rough, I don't think it serves the purpose it's made for, is it? Well, here's the conclusion. There's a lot of work going on. I am aware that the colleagues who have worked have spent a lot of time and energy and should thank them for it, but the work that has been done too long, 6 years and the work in which too many people participate have the folk, you know about midwives and children, unfortunately then results in this kind of work that I personally think is from the point of view of human rights and from the point of view of functionality, dangerous. And it's a shame that we don't have time to go over it again thoroughly, and maybe, here's a bit of a funny conclusion, this House might be in charge of the government to set up a task force to build a new CAP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23808	Thank you. HDZ Representatives' Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23809	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. A colleague has an objection? Here, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the final draft law on the criminal procedure we are discussing today. I must say that it is an extremely extensive law, an organic law, a law that is one of the fundamental laws of the Croatian legal order and one of the most significant newspapers in the entire system of criminal law. This law must ensure and guarantee a balance between the effective protection of society against the most dangerous attacks, but a way to ensure that perpetrators of criminal offences are found, processed and based on the law punished, while at the same time guaranteeing that the principles of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the conduct of criminal proceedings are respected. This is a law also expected in the area of criminal justice to meet the negotiating criteria in the accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which means speeding up criminal proceedings and reducing the number of outstanding old cases. Of course, the legislative framework itself will not be enough, there is still a series of measures being implemented through the justice reform strategy, but certainly this is one of the essential tools. This proposal for a new criminal procedural law is headed towards reforming the criminal procedure, i.e. in the transformation from a mixed type of criminal procedure to a criminal procedure of the acoustic type. This transformation leads to a series of conceptual changes in many procedural institutes. We are aware that the future abandonment, i.e. the absence of more inquisitor maximum, will be the most difficult to accept to judges because the long-term tradition and concept of the criminal procedure of Croatia is different. However, we believe that the new concept of criminal proceedings will contribute more effectively and faster to the conduct of the criminal procedure that the countries of the European legal area, which almost all know the criminal proceedings based on the acoustic principle, are also talking about. I must stress that this final proposal has been drawn up, and the preparation of the principles for the draft of this law has been attended by a very broad professional public I would say not through the last maybe six months or a year since this proposal has been worked more intensively almost five years since the first beginnings of preparation of amendments, systematic amendments to the Penal Code. We expect from this new Penal Code, above all, as I have said, the effectiveness and acceleration of criminal proceedings and a clearer position, the party's position in criminal proceedings. And right now, let me say that maybe there's too much concern being expressed for the defendant who's going to be in a far weaker procedure, but fortunately, we're still in the area of the so-called. Western democracy, and then the defendant needs to be proven guilty and the defendant doesn't need to prove his innocence, so the principle is that everyone is innocent until he's proved guilty by a judicial order. In the proposal for this law, perhaps the most significant reform of the previous procedure and the consistent separation of the data collection function for the indictment and decision-making process. So it's being introduced, a judicial investigation is being lifted, a prosecutor's investigation is being initiated, the prosecutor is fully taking responsibility for gathering evidence and evidence until the indictment is brought up. An institution of a judge of an investigation which actually has one control function to oversee the legality of the actions of a state attorney in the previous proceedings should they enter into fundamental rights, rights and freedoms. New forms of accelerated treatment such as the settlement of easier cases through the settlement of the agreement are also introduced, with the lack of criminal prosecution, with the appropriate compensation of the victim, simplifying the conduct of preparations for the debate, extending the scope of the parties' agreement to fines and reforming the shortened procedure. And another measure that will contribute to the effectiveness of criminal proceedings, which is to improve the procedural rules governing effective action measures such as presence and procedural discipline measures in criminal proceedings, as well as the reform of the rules on certain procedural units and procedural actions. In the application of a shortened procedure, and now a shortened procedure is being conducted for all cases before municipal courts where no judicial investigation is necessary and mandatory, a significant acceleration of criminal proceedings and a significant reduction in the burden of courts is expected, so that the application of the new institute provided for in this law, the proposed Criminal Procedure Act, results of a reduction in the number of complete discussions would be approximately 40%. It is also new to this law that an investigation can also be carried out against the unknown perpetrator. The condition has been recognised in relation to the current CAP has been reduced and said, and another newspaper, a complete newspaper, that an investigator is being introduced in criminal proceedings, so a new entity of a person who, on the basis of legal authority, is taking action under the orders of a state attorney. They are also a good newspaper in relation to the protection of victims, rules on evidence stores and newspapers compared to exceptional legal medicines that leave out an extraordinary legal remedy for the extraordinary mitigation of penalties for the reasons of the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings, and also because this legal institute does not know the countries of the European legal circle. Finally, once again, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this proposal and, above all, the transitional and final provisions that are scheduled to take effect on 1 January 2009, the decision on the renewal, the amended decision on the renewal of the procedure, and, on 1 July 2009, to apply this law to all the crimes under the jurisdiction of the USKOK. It is also indicated that it may be necessary to apply the provisions on exceptional legal medicines from 1.1.2009 because they do not require any preparation. And in the end, the application and implementation of this law will not be possible, and therefore we appeal to the Government to bring the so-called "A" as soon as possible. the relevant laws, which are primarily the Law on Police Authorities and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23810	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. Then the secretary of state. ... I'm sorry very much, you should have, but... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Tatjana Vučetic, final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23811	Here I would like to thank everyone who participated in the debate and, of course, everyone who submitted the amendments. We're going to consider them, that's what we're going to do for sure, and wherever we think they're useful and contribute to improving the Criminal Procedure Act, we're going to adopt them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23812	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23813	Final draft law on criminal proceedings, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 116. The debate is closed. A review of the amendments is divided on the benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of... Amendments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The adoption of this law requires in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, most of all the MPs, so 77 votes. We have amendments. Madam Secretary of State. Proposed amendments to Mr Ivo Josipovic's representative number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23814	Mr. President, it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23815	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23816	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23817	You just want to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23818	The new termology is more appropriate to mark the presence of security measures by making it more clear that the person who is deprived of liberty is in custody of the detention unit under the supervision of the detention supervisor. As far as the prison's concerned, he's termnologically responding to home prison. This concept expresses that it is a different stricter measure of security of presence, which is historically an investigative prison, i.e. on the basis of a court decision, a certain deprivement of freedom during the investigation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23819	Thank you. Mr Ivo Josipovic. He's gone. We're voting on his amendment. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2. Amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23820	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23821	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3rd representative of Mr Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23822	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23823	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 4th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23824	It's unacceptable. Article 123(5) lays down that the investigation prison will not be determined if the maximum length of the investigation prison has expired in cases where the investigation prison is not obliged as set out in paragraph 3. By accepting the amendments, the liability detentions referred to in paragraph 3 of that article have become optional, contrary to the current CAP and to the arrangement of detentions in the new CAP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23825	Mr. Ivo Josipovic is gone. Who is this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5th representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23826	It's partially accepted. The proposed amendment shall be accepted in part in a way that deletes the point at the end of paragraph 3 and adds the point and the words "and at its request the person against whom the application has been filed".
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23827	As Mr. Lesar is gone, we must vote on that part of the amendment that the government does not accept. Who is for this amendment to Mr. Lesar? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23828	It's unacceptable. Article 265 provides for a process of obtaining information that is a secret bank. So the collected data can serve as evidence. By way of derogation from Article 206(5), data required by a State lawyer to decide on a criminal application shall be collected. In view of this, and given the significant law-protected secrets, the amendment is rejected. It should be noted that the amendment justified the importance of data on financial transactions in very serious criminal offences, so different access to protected data can be regulated by a special law such as the USKOK Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23829	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23830	By doing so, the government acknowledges that the fight against corruption is self-inflicted, as the state's attorney will ask the bank. He says he'll give all the information except for the one that's a bank secret. Well, I guess they won't be looking for any banking services, or banking products. What you refer to is the provisions of the SCIKOK and that is sufficient, it should be noted that the provision of Article 42a of the BUSKOK relates to the existing provision of Article 219. The CAP. So it's getting pointless, you're gonna make a mess. You'll do a miracle. So what you are warning about is that it becomes groundless because the new law is going on, and the USKOK law is speaking and referring to the provision of Article 219, and it says that the office will ask the bank to supply data in accordance with the provisions of Article 219 but the existing CAP, it will no longer be because it is coming new. Secondly, says paragraph 2 of the same USKOK Act, when the bank refuses to do so will be decided by an investigative judge. You don't have an investigative judge anymore. So anti-corruption will really be disabled, because under the existing provision as much as possible to get to this data, now here's what the minister said we have a scalpel, we have an operating room, but you see you simply tied your hands to the operator instead of tying your hands to mobsters and above all their assets. This is incomprehensible. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23831	Who's in favor of this amendment that the government doesn't normally accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic also for the 7th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23832	It's partially accepted. The proposed amendment is partly accepted in a way that the following wording is added in Article 206(6) after the word "in the amount of 50 thousand kuna" and the word "and the legal person up to 5 million kuna". The second part of the proposed amendment is rejected for the reason that the sentence of imprisonment as a procedural penalty in all cases is prescribed for a maximum period of one month and is also acted in the same way in the article in question, which only partially accepted the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23833	Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23834	Of course it's a good thing that out of these 50,000 kunas adopted the amendment so that the punishment for not giving the data is now 5 million which is certainly good. However, this argument that this is a procedural mandate is one measure and that it is not envisaged in any case for more than a month, for cases like this it stops the detection of mobsters and their property and is said to be in all other cases for a month and you have announced a sharp fight against corruption for which special measures should be taken, so it means nothing, so nothing is justified that such punishment is not drastic and thus show the message to you who are the protectors of such mobsters, money launderers. You'll be locked up for three years. Which is to serve him for a month to hide that property and to share it with each other later. Well, that's funny for a month. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23835	We're voting on that part that wasn't accepted by the government. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8th Amendment of the same representative, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23836	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23837	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 9th representative of Mr. Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23838	It's partially accepted. In part, this amendment shall be adopted in a way that deletes the point at the end of Article 246 at the end of paragraph 1, adding the point and the words "unless it is a search of the home or space referred to in Article 256 of this Act".
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23839	Mr. Representative Ivo Josipvoic is missing. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 10th of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23840	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendment cannot be accepted primarily because, instead of the current transparent and specific text, it is obvious that it is difficult to say at the time of the suspension. Obviously, at the time of the suspension, it is difficult to state which evidence is legal and which cannot be used in the procedure. It is expected that top-level action in the nature of things will be left out of the application of these other items which are obviously not of interest to criminal proceedings. However, as regards the proposal to delete paragraphs 2 and 3, I suppose it should be recalled that these provisions are also in the current CAP, and in this respect it is particularly important to draw attention to paragraph 3 which is of particular importance for the protection of children and minors whose erasure is not already taken into account for this reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23841	Thank you very much. Who is Mr. Ivo Josipovic for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11th Amendment, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23842	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23843	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And the 12th same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23844	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23845	It's becoming an integral part. 13th representative of Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23846	It's unacceptable. The amendment shall be rejected for the reason that the new investigation procedure provides for the holding of a conflicting debate at a meeting of the parties held in the presence of the parties and which is different from the debate above all that is not public. The law calls for the main stage of the debate procedure to be avoided when legal conditions exist. There is no doubt that after the panel's meeting, the panel may decide that there is insufficient evidence that the defendant has been found suspicious of the action under the indictment. This does not prejudge whether the defendant is guilty or not, but rather prevents an under-founded indictment from being brought up in the debate, which protects human rights on the one hand, while, on the other hand, seeks to justify the indictment and to enable effective and continuous treatment. It should be noted, by the way, that there is a right to appeal against the panel's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23847	Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23848	This is a deviation completely from the concept of the new CAP. The accused council in that new constitution and relations was reserved for the control of the legality of the conduct of the evidence collected by the State Attorney's Office. In this way to give the role of the accused council, which is why the accused council is called to decide on the quality of the evidence means whether to assess the quality of the evidence means to engage in a trial. That kind of thing can only have a fate council. In this way we re-relativated the matter and we did not remove ourselves from the old CAP by one step if we gave this authority to the accused council. So it must only be for the control of legality, and the quality and quality of evidence it must be left only to the judgment council, so only to the trial. We will again have a relativation of responsibility and will again have a transfer of responsibility from the state's attorney's office to the defendant's council now, to court and vice versa. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23849	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 14th Amendment of Mr Ivo Josipovic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23850	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23851	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 15th Amendment of MP Ivo Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23852	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23853	It's becoming an integral part. 16 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23854	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23855	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 17th also Mr. Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23856	Sustained, supplemental. Amendment of Prof. In order to fully return to the inquisitor maximums in accordance with the proposed amendments, Josipovic is to be required in Article 440(2) and after the word "proposal" referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to add the words "and the court has not decided to act within the meaning of Article 419(1).".
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23857	So, what the government has accepted, we cannot but vote on Mr. Ivo Josipovic's amendment as a whole. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And 18 representatives of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23858	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23859	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Then 19th representative of Mr. Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23860	It's unacceptable. The proposer believes that there is no justification for four outstanding legal remedies in Croatian criminal law. First of all, all circumstances relevant for measuring the penalties that existed at the time of the proceedings should be laid down in that procedure and evaluated in the assessment of the penalties. Circumstances that arise after the power of judgment, which are relevant for measuring penalties, should be evaluated in the context of the process of resociation during the execution of the sentence. So, according to the rules on the execution of a prison sentence. Extraordinary mitigation of penalties leads to an unacceptable double colossal that the penalties imposed by law may be decided by the authorities of enforcement and by the highest court. For the special circumstances that occurred after the power of judgment, it should be recalled that there is a pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23861	Thank you. Who is Mr. Ivo Josipovic's amendment he does not have and the government does not accept it? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23862	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23863	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The 21st representative of Anne Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23864	As much as I have information, withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23865	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23866	Mr. President, this amendment was withdrawn before the vote, in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23867	Okay. Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 22 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23868	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23869	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 23. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23870	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23871	It's becoming an integral part. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 575 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23872	Mr. President, as well as Amendment 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23873	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you. Therefore, the adoption of this law requires 77 at least votes. I am voting on the final proposal of the Criminal Procedure Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The final proposal of the Criminal Procedure Act was adopted by the majority of 88 votes, nothing abstentioned and 33 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23874	We're going to have another little point that's tied to this set of anti-corruption legislation. - Final proposal of the Penal Code against the Capital Market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The hearing was conducted by committees on legislation and justice. The amendments were submitted by the Justice Committee. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal briefly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23875	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So in short, what are the reasons for this law being passed. By adopting the Capital Market Act, which enters into force on 1 January 2009, in a comprehensive and systematic manner, a regulated area of the capital market including the regulation of investment services, companies and other institutions of the capital market, as well as regulated and effective supervision of the entire system. As a comprehensive reform of criminal legislation is foreseen for the first half of the following year, and the Capital Market Act enters into force on 1 January, with the effect of that Capital Market Act, it is necessary to introduce and regulate offences against the capital market, which is achieved by this proposal. The bill regulates criminal acts against capital markets and so on. Under one, a criminal offence of use, disclosure and recommendation of privileged information. Two, criminal act of market manipulation. Under three, a criminal offence is an unauthorized provision of investment services. And under four, the criminal offence of the unauthorized conduct of the work of a tied representative. More serious forms of crime shall be considered if these offences against the capital market are supplied with a significant material benefit or cause significant material damage, i.e. by means of abuse of the use of privileged information, inter alia, if such privileged information is used by a person who is at the same time a member of the board of directors or supervisory board, i.e. he owns shares or shares in a company which is the issuer of a financial instrument, for whom the person makes use of the privileged information. What this bill seeks to achieve, which is to introduce an effective instrument for combating the exploitation of privileged so-called "priorities". Insider information and various forms of manipulation of the capital market, and we introduce an effective instrument to prevent unauthorized provision of investment services and to carry out business of a tied representative in such a way as to prescribe fines from fines to prisons of up to 5 years for serious forms of individual criminal offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23876	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23877	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Very short. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club supports the proposal for a law on criminal acts against the capital market. I think it's actually important to point out two things. So the Capital Market Act itself was adopted and will enter into force on 1 January 2009. This law establishes, among other things, an area or a regulated area and the business of persons authorised to carry out financial instruments transactions on the one hand and, on the other hand, to stress that I am the law, hence the Capital Market Act introduces European standards and with regard to market abuse. The introduction of these standards and one issue has therefore been raised, the issue of criminal liability for the unlawful conduct of certain specific offences which are present in this particular sphere, therefore business, and therefore it was precisely necessary to prescribe criminal offences and sanctions for the initiation of that type, specific types of criminal offences, in order to fully regulate the capital market in all their segments and those participants in the processes that occur within the capital market, so when illegal actions occur, when illegal actions are committed or offences themselves. These crimes are by this brief law, as already stated in the opening statement. They are not only mentioned, prescribed, certain sanctions. These are specific crimes and are therefore found in this special law, although there have also been some opinions that, since it is a catalogue of criminal offences, they should also be in criminal material law. But here is a solution to support it, because this solution corresponds to the specific needs, so the time in which we go to sanction in the best possible way all those illegal behaviours of those participants in the capital market itself. Therefore, when a criminal offence is carried out which is prescribed by this law, and Article 2 of this Law requires that the provisions of the Penal Code apply to the offences prescribed by this law. It is important to note in particular what criminal acts are involved. So these are primarily the use, detection and recommendation of privileged information. Then. So it's about privileged information. Then manipulation of the market. Furthermore, the unauthorized provision of investment services and the unauthorised performance of the business of a tied representative. That we do not engage in an analysis of each of these criminal offences from the very title of a criminal offence, we see the types of unlawful conduct being committed and it is indeed necessary to incriminate such a type of unlawful conduct, i.e. to prescribe a special criminal offence with a sanction so that the perpetrators of these offences can be properly punished. But it's not just punishment that matters. By prescribing these crimes, we have this prevention or such element that, therefore, precisely prescribed criminal provisions, so that it represents criminal behavior in that segment, which is a criminal offence, in fact, quite certain and... all participants and possible participants in these processes not to commit such unlawful acts, i.e. to avoid committing criminal acts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Accordingly, for all of these reasons, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Proposal for a Law on Criminal Works against the Capital Market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23878	Thank you. SDP advocates' club, Ms. Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23879	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP Club supports the adoption of these provisions, which is why we are forced to support and support such a proposal for a Criminal Case Act against the Capital Market with the Final Proposal of the Law. However, as these provisions are not disputed for us, and as the time has been disputed for us to decide, debate the Penal Code and criminal proceedings, it is a little bit too difficult for us here why, at the same time as we supplement, we are changing the Penal Code parallel to this, we are including, incriminalizing an entire series of acts that constitute economic crimes and which are necessarily to be found in the Penal Code. It creates a certain confusion. We faced such a phenomenon in the 1990s when we had a whole series of crimes scattered in certain laws so it was hard to follow. The urgency was that one Penal Code unites all behaviors that are such social dangers to be found in the Penal Code. So, at the same time, we're changing the Penal Code, and we're bringing this in. Perhaps during a transitional period, but under the urgency of hearing Mr. Minister prepare for a more extensive amendment to the Penal Code, then it is necessary that all these provisions that will be found now in this bill, or in such a law, be moved to where they are also placed in the Penal Code in a special chapter of economic incrimination, when I strongly wish to believe that there will be a central criminal offence of trust as a central economic crime without which the fight against corruption and organised crime is not possible. Beware of the provision, giving bribes is all the consequences of something that preceded it, which is economic crime. Economic crime without bribery and corruption cannot be almost done. If he seems to be, then it's a lower social hazard. The object of protection in these offences is the capital market. It's good that freedom of the market protects itself. So the protection facility is the capital market. Is it not, then, a team before the building of protection in a central crime, which is the protection of all the believers, even though they and the state were, that the purest state was damaged, but all the other believers, the suppliers, and then the workers? Aren't they the subject of our concern? Isn't it acceptable for immoral behaviors, behaviors that impoverish both the state and the religious and ultimately the workers, isn't that the subject of our concerns and acts of such social danger that they can't find their place in the Penal Code? Well, that stays strange. Well, that's what we can incriminate this and that, but we can't be credible either as proposings, nor us as a Croatian Parliament, if such behaviours don't find their place in the Penal Code. So once again, I appeal that these behaviors must be found in the Penal Code. Just as much as a failure to pay a worker. It's something that impoverishes a worker, an unfounded rich employer like that. Imagine an employer who's damaging another legal person. The whole mechanism is being put against such behavior, but the worker is obviously one slave who has no protection. So we protect this stuff more in certain magazines than we protect the worker. And in the Constitution, we have guaranteed the salary of the workers as the dignity of his person and his family. And we're a social state. So we're more protective of some objects, of some imagination than of a person, of a worker who is the creator of all goods. Here's something more concrete about certain provisions. Using and detecting and recommending privileged formations is a serious crime, serious social behavior and should be found here in criminal incrimination. However, preventing fines or prison sentences for up to one year does not create the seriousness of this crime. It almost suggests that it's some kind of exaggerating offense. Watch out for up to one year, even up to three years’ worth of crime is considered. Judge individual. It's kind of an accident. A minimum sentence of three years should be prevented here by one year. Since the nature of this offence itself indicates the seriousness of the violation of that right, the protection of that facility, the protection of market capital. Thus, if such behavior causes damage to another person or legal person, it will have privileged information. Who can do that? Who does that? These are political crimes, political corruption. So, from the very system comes such information. I think that in such an announced struggle, here we at the SDP club would consider the crime to be a crime, that a suspended sentence of up to one year is really insufficient, because there is no such social condemnation, no such reluctance as should be required. And when we translate that into our case-law, when he sees the judge as a rule where the sentence of up to 3 years is prevented, and even bigger ones usually pass parole. So we'll have some fines here. When it's up to one year, maybe it's only often a reminder. So such measures are pronounced because there is an application of the general section of the Penal Code and then we have not achieved the right purpose of punishment. And then we'll be insecure. So this is a serious failure. We also see here on the trail of something that I once again link to this economic main incrimination by misusing trust in order to be responsible for all these acts and actions of the membership of administrative, management and supervisory authorities here we see when doing so to the detriment of the market where the object of freedom of the market is then yet criminal responsibility is established for those members. So shyly matures, matures the idea that we have entered market management and that the economic incriminations so far are not adequate to respond to this kind of behavior or to various abuses that may occur. Likewise, we can say for this and for the criminal act of market manipulation, but I think there is already a better-developed criminal sanction here, which is also adequate and also for the criminal offence of the unauthorized provision of investment services and the conduct of the business of a tied representative. Since these are crimes of economic crime, which we are so deprived of in our criminal law, the SDP Club will support the adoption of such a law, but we note that as soon as possible, it is also in the Penal Code where it belongs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23880	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Zdravko Marić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23881	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just for a little while. So first of all, thank you for these comments and suggestions. It will certainly be considered. I'd just like to say finally so, the tabled amendments of the Justice Committee are in any case acceptable and the government accepts them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23882	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and this agenda point. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:00 in the morning health care laws, compulsory health insurance, voluntary health insurance and some other laws such as item 11, 12, and tax laws, amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions, the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products, and then there's little more there about using energy, about the gas market, all that tomorrow. And why don't we get there? ... Tomorrow night's the night's work. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-11-0.u23883	Final draft law on criminal acts against the capital market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 226. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Justice Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted this amendment. To vote on this law, the overhalf majority of the 77 MPs are required. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Criminal Works against the Capital Market. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This bill on criminal acts against the capital market was adopted by a majority of 128 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. The amendment was accepted earlier. And finally tonight's final item of the agenda. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z:E. number 224 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the motion for an act in the box. When setting the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant to discuss this legislative proposal in an emergency procedure on the basis of Articles 159 and 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Legislatives. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Mr Miljenko Pavlakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
