ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5500	Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. We continue to work at the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. In order to facilitate benching, you are given a consolidated agenda to continue the session. From this consolidated agenda, the first item of the agenda, which I announced at the end of the session last night, is - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria on Police Cooperation, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 32 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and by the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on that agenda point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5501	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria on police cooperation. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage and vote. Here you go. Thank you. The bill was adopted by a majority of 118 votes in favour and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5502	We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations Peace Mission at the UNDOF is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the material into the boxes. The decision of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Article 155, 157. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Mate Raboteg State Secretary at the Department of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5503	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. So this is a decision allowing the Republic of Croatia to participate in a new United Nations peacekeeping mission. During 2007, the Republic of Croatia was offered the opportunity to participate with its armed forces in a peacekeeping mission at the Golan High School and thus for the first time the Republic of Croatia has now been given the opportunity as a new member of the Security Council to participate in a United Nations peacekeeping mission with one complete unit. Therefore, it is an easy on footing of 95 members who will replace the Slovak forces within the Austrian battlefield. It is a great recognition to the Republic of Croatia where it has further strengthened its status as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. A mission to the Golan High School has been established since 1974 as a mission to separate Israeli and Syrian forces. She's already if we can say that routine. The Secretary-General of the United Nations has specifically referred to the United Nations peacekeeping missions as being stable and peaceful in Golan, however, since it is still a mission involving armed forces in the separation, so Israeli and Syrian forces and in the control of the separation area, it is due to present risks, etc. appreciates it as a peace mission of moderate risk. With this decision, we propose to allow the participation of the Republic of Croatia to 100 members by 31 December 2009 and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will make a special decision determining the number, structure and time of rotation of our members. Otherwise, I would end up in line with the long-term plan for the development of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, otherwise the Republic of Croatia is expected to be able to participate in the United Nations peacekeeping missions up to 150 members, of which 50 individually. So we already have 12 United Nations peacekeeping missions around the world as observers and as headquarters staff and up to 100 members in the strength of one hour or two waters. So this is the first time we've been involved with this kind of force. And once again, it is a great recognition to the Republic of Croatia and will significantly raise the capabilities of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in preparing its members for similar tasks in peacekeeping missions around the world in the next period. Well, I recommend that the Croatian Parliament vote this decision on my part as much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5504	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5505	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. According to this proposal, Croatia has 45 members of the armed forces engaged in twelve missions around the world. Clearly, the number of these 45 soldiers of the Croatian army should be added to those two hundred soldiers presently in Afghanistan. This mission in Afghanistan, it's my impression, God forbid I'm wrong, it's doomed to a total failure, I'd like to avoid the loss of Croatian soldiers, although I'm afraid it's only a matter of days before it happens. And I'd love to, even though I know it's not gonna happen for those guys to pull out of Afghanistan. But I agree, too, Croatia was the victim of a brutal aggression. Here in these areas, there, in that wartime from 92 to 95, it was known in one day to be 11, 12 thousand members of the peace parties stationed throughout the Republic of Croatia. It should be acknowledged that these boys from various countries helped Croatia in defence, in ensuring peace, and I don't think they should ever forget that. We must appreciate that and in some ways, it is clear, we must also repay ourselves to the United Nations. But let me go back to Golan now. On page 3 of this Explanation is literally said that Israel is officially... The area of the Golan High East 81st. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it is not internationally recognised, so this area is generally considered an area under occupation. The Syrian and Israeli governments are still without the use of military forces, disputes over the possession of the territory. Due to the great strategic importance of Golan's final agreement issue, it is not certain. Then, among other things, it is stated here that during 2007, the Republic of Croatia as a new member of the Security Council has been offered the possibility to send a unit of size to the United Nations' mission to golanska visorvan since June 2008. What is in some way worrying is this ease of sending soldiers from Croatia to various military missions. Here, our decision assumes that as many as a hundred Croatian soldiers should go or at some point be on Golan, so that's the size of the company. I think it's at least too brave, or a bold decision. Such a decision is an extremely expensive decision. But fortunately, the opportunities in Golan are far less, uncertain than they are in Afghanistan. I thought we'd send to Golan a dozen, fifteen soldiers as usual to these missions from Ethiopia, Eritrea, India, Pakistan, the Western Sahara, the shores of Belarus, Cyprus, Georgia, and so on. However, I was surprised to read that this military mission would eventually be covered by a hundred Croatian soldiers. It seems that even a tenth of all the soldiers who will be stationed in Golan will be so from the Republic of Croatia or the Croatian Army. According to the last state of the mission in Golan, 1062 soldiers, plus 57 military observers from the Golan Visoravan watchdog group, plus 40 members of civilian international staff and 105 members of local civilian personnel. So we can say that Croatia will almost be represented by one-tenth of this military staff. I think it is too brave, I think it is almost unnecessary in such a number to engage the material and human potentials of the Croatian military and Croatian state. I don't think anyone asks Croatia to do that in one of those numbers. And I don't think this head is well described here as the necessary financial means to implement the decision. It is only said here that the financial resources for the expenses and participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping mission at the Golan High, are provided in budgets under the division of the Ministry of Defence. It's just not true. The annual engagement of these soldiers is at least 20m euros, plus all the equipment, so it will initially need to be provided somewhere at least, perhaps 30m euros. 3 times 7, it's about 200 and so many million kunas, it's gentlemen somewhere around 5% of the military budget of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know if a decision like this is a consequence, say, or a price, under the allegations of Bush coming to Croatia, but I think, if it is, then it's too high. And as the secretary of state said that Croatia has been given a great honour, or a great recognition that it can thus participate in its troops on Golan, I would like to make such, under the quotes of "recognition" to Croatia as little as possible. The IDS Club, as all clubs will do, will vote, clearly, for this Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping mission at Golan High, only because it is far less insecure, or the security of that mission is far greater than that of Afghanistan. But I would really like to hear or learn about this other financial dimension of this decision and how much funding will be needed in the state budget. That is, for the sake of insurance, I said, about 200 million kuna, for the first year, for those 100 soldiers in, or in Golan, which will have to be denied when it comes to members of the Croatian Army or the Ministry of Defence. All in all, I said, there is no club that will not support this decision. Croatia must repay those who were also present under the hat, or the helmet of the United Nations on the ground of the Republic of Croatia in those difficult times, but I think it is here, slowly notices one ease of sending soldiers beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. And yes, as if no one in the Ministry of Defense, to the government, I don't know, the President's office asks the question as to how far it can go and how easily people can be sent on a mission.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5506	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5507	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, a very clear and short club of HDZ will give full support to the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peace mission at Golanska visorna for a simple reason because there is our shared responsibility, there is a commitment, there is solidarity called building common peace in the world. I certainly believe that many of you remember well the role the UN played in 1992 in establishing peace in these areas, important roles, political, military. But we also do not forget the problems and restrictions the UN had in carrying out its mission in the Republic of Croatia and in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. Both at that time and in those moments, its full force was political, but also military and affirmative on the international scene, and NATO experienced this area and this crisis was the moment NATO supported the UN peace operation and offered the world's new power to political and military to control peace, security and stability worldwide. Building peace as it is said here costs, has its price. These are significant, large financial resources for people, equipment, training, training and everything else that is an integral part of training the forces carrying out these important tasks. The task of the UN as well, and now more and more NATO is not exclusively military, and today more and more civilian institutions and civilian experts are participating in both the UN and NATO. The building of peace is expensive, but the war and the damage it brings are far greater. It is therefore part of preventive diplomacy, preventive policy, preventive action that needs to be minimised by far greater material damage, tragedy and destruction. What it says in this proposal is very clear that during 2007, the Republic of Croatia as a new member of the Security Council has been given the opportunity to participate in the UN Peace Mission at the Golan High School since June 2008 and to direct a unit the size of a company there. Slovakia, which participates in the mission with an easy walking hour of 95 members, offered the Republic of Croatia the takeover of its positions. This gave Croatian Armed Forces the first opportunity to head for a UN peacekeeping mission, a military unit of the strength of a pedestrian company. So far, we have been very often able to realize that in peace missions we have relatively few people, but that our participation is related to many different states. This is an opportunity for us to have integrated forces in one place and to assume the level of responsibility that the Republic of Croatia today must and can accept in the International Community, given that Croatia is a non-permanent member of the Security Council and given the fact that Croatia expects an invitation for full membership in NATO in Bucharest. It is part of Croatian state policy. This is part of the state policy of most countries of the modern international community and we have recognised this kind of responsibility and in any case I believe that the Croatian Parliament will also give full support to this mission. There were a few words about the mission in Afghanistan, and I think we need to comment and make it clear – the NATO Mission in Afghanistan is one of the key, most important missions of NATO right now. It's important for NATO's credibility. It is important to strengthen the role NATO needs and must have in establishing world peace control, whether someone likes it or not. NATO has problems, NATO has difficulties. But every day in this challenging peace mission, NATO shows its capabilities in all segments by working with the UN and other international institutions of the European Union through a European defence security policy, the World Bank and other institutions to build a new system of values and establish fundamental democratic institutions in that country. I've personally been to this vast, large, abandoned state several times, and I have to say that we must be aware of the enormous efforts that the International Community is doing to ensure that everything that has been inherited in that country in the past few hundred years is brought into so many controlled systems that Afghanistan is not a threat to security in the international community. We must never forget the fact that Afghanistan is indeed a drug state that produces and exports almost 95% of opium and heroin production and the impact that such a state has on its internal disorder is threatening the international community because of its failure to function. Therefore, there is a responsibility of the International Community specifically both NATO and the UN and other international institutions to stabilise the country. The HDZ Club, as I said, will support this proposal, because it is not only part of peace building, but it is very important for training, training of Croatian troops. Professional units without such peace operations really don't have the right opportunity to verify their tactical, technical, logistics, and I'd say what's important to communication skills. Knowledge of languages, communication within such international units is a vital experience that needs to be gained, and it can only be gained by working on the ground and participating in such peace operations. Therefore, we can also look at the mission of the Croatian Contingent in Golan from the aspect of regular training and training of our professional units. I am sure that the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff has made a good and quality selection of professionals who will be able to successfully carry out this important, responsible task in the interest of the Chief Staff of the Ministry of Defence, but also of the Croatian State Policy as a whole, and therefore the HDZ Club will give full support to the mandate of Croatian troops in this important mission of the UN. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5508	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5509	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I wanted to say that the Republic of Croatia participates clearly, as has already been said, in peacekeeping missions and from before, especially when Mr. Kreso Ćosic is talking about the Peace Mission in Afghanistan and about a country that is a producer of 90% of the world's opium or opium to say drug raw materials, yes. Clearly, Golanska Visoravan is not such an area, but it is the area which is the main area to say the source, the water manufacturer and water supplier for, to say more countries, in the Middle East. I would not describe this mission as a mission to the future, a peace mission that has no means of saying almost as much danger as it is in Afghanistan, because we know that the political opportunities in the Middle East are very hierarchical as the wartime opportunities and changes to say at one point, in one second can happen very quickly, very quickly changes can happen in this sense on the ground. We need to remember that the Middle East is in one, one past closer when we speak, for example. about Sinai then we know what it meant between 41 and 45 for a good part of Croatia, i.e. for refugees especially from Dalmatia. We must remember that in something closer to say the past, in 92, in the composition of the peace forces that were in the Republic of Croatia, was also a Jordanian unit, so the Arab unit, and therefore, in any case, that we are in some way a moral debtor to take his place in this area and Croatia, to take his place in the participation in the Peace Mission at the Golan High School, we know from the materials, that before, in order for our company, the walking company was a Slovak company in the therefore Austrian contingent, which is at Golanska visorna. To be honest, I personally did not find, although I am following the news and all the information, that there have been some special incidents in this area and I hope that there will be no political decision regarding the future of Golanska visorna between to say party to the dispute, which is the state of Israel and Syria. What Mr Cain was saying in terms of financial, financial issues to say and about funds ranging between 20 and 30 million euros, clearly I should say precise, to define exactly in, with those who, therefore with the United Nations, would not come into any dispute again and would not want to state these days what kind of disputes we have with me to say to some international factors and others, where we did not specify, define some things, and given that the Croatian candidate for NATO is a pact and since it is necessary and training to say both professional and military to say and linguistically at the end, because in any case the coordination and commanding and the rest of the NATO Pact is clear to the exclusive, almost exclusively in the English language is, then in that case I will say the HDSB Club will support this Proposal for the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission of the Republic of the United Nations in the Republic of Croatia that the Republic of Croatia is defined by means of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5510	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5511	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here are my colleagues before me for and against attitudes to send our members on a peace mission. As a former soldier, as an officer... Now retired, I think it's an honor for them to all of our members and commanders of the Guard brigade, which they can already prepare after tomorrow's session of their team of boys to go to wear, to bring peace, or to continue with the activities that these 20 years without incidents are solved there. [[You don't understand.]] If we followed through information funds, then we could see that even on those checkpoints that are around 10, which our troops in the composition of the Austrian military where the deputy commander of the war would be one of our high-ranking officers and two other officers in the headquarters who would command our troops, that these people, meaning members who are now there, are doing most of their jobs at the checkpoints in blue berets and not in blue helmets. Thank God we send peace from Croatia, to create peace, we know very well what has happened to us in the near past, and I will certainly support this decision as a man and as a soldier. As far as the financing itself is concerned, it is specified in this section that it is ensured, but our members of the Guard brigade must train and spend certain funds in the Republic of Croatia as well, indeed not in the same proportion, but I think the ministry planned that our boys, that our members would go on peacekeeping missions. And what we have today in our members and NATO forces, that is for the first time we will have our members in one European mission, because this is a contingent of European troops, I think it will only be good for the Republic of Croatia and for all of our boys who go there. When it comes to risk, look at the risks we have at all. Today our mungos go mine into minefields, the question is how many will come out of minefields. We know how polluted Croatia is by mine-explosive means and other unexploded devices. So anyone can get hurt. I repeat it means members, professional soldiers who are trained, who know how to wear uniforms, know how to carry our flag with pride and who will present honor and honesty to the Republic of Croatia in this part. They will also mean there on these dozens of punks as much as they should have in separating those two warring parties that have been missing for twenty years, so they will have the role of retirement mission, will have the role of being able to educate themselves, prepare for tasks that God will only thank you for not coming to the territory of the Republic of Croatia anymore, or helmets, nor berets, nor blue, nor white, nor any other color, so that we can send our boys there. If this year's Parliament sends its delegation to visit our members, both in Afghanistan and in the high seas, I recommend myself, I would like to visit all these boys and greet them on the spot. Thank you very much, and I will definitely support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5512	Thank you. We're moving on. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5513	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, indeed here as my predecessors do I think that we can truly express our satisfaction and pride that the Croatian Army is participating in one of these responsible missions of the United Nations to the Golan High School, so as part of the European Contingent within the Austrian Army, where it is already said that we will have both commanders and officers at headquarters. Therefore, we are truly very pleased because of the trust enjoyed by the Croatian Army. Not so long ago, Croatia needed pensions of strength. We all know what happened in the early 1990s during the Homeland War and how much these pensions actually contributed to stabilising the situation and in some way to retirement process. Of course, the key role was precisely for the Croatian Army, which freed in its liberating actions of Croatian territory. And this experience that our members will also be members of this mission, some of them certainly have combat experiences and therefore we are quite sure that they will properly respond to all the tasks that will be put before them. The number of 100 soldiers is not small and is not negligible when it is taken into account, of course, that it is a moderate risk mission as already said here, but we believe that there will be no major conflicts because it is an area that I would say would be a permanent focus of moderate, controlled conflicts. And in that sense, we believe that there will be no escalation and that this is exactly the condition that our soldiers will contribute to the peaceful state as part of this Austrian battle. What to say other than the fact that the Croatian Army truly enjoys such a great reputation in the international community today, so only ten years after the war in Croatia and, of course, within the United Nations where we are known as members of the World Government, where we are a non-permanent member of the Security Council. And, of course, that's certainly one of the arguments and facts that gave us the confidence to participate in this kind of a responsible task of the United Nations. Here I believe that our soldiers and everyone who goes there will be happy and return to Croatia, will respond to all the tasks and will certainly defend the colours of the Croatian State in the right way and will contribute to this truly great task of the international community or the United Nations and preserve peace in this area indeed as I have already said the permanent hotspot at the Golan High School. And we believe that both the Israelis and the Syrians will recognize it, so both the Israeli and the Syrian forces that our soldiers will actually separate. Here in this sense I am quite sure that as far as material support and logistics are concerned, they will have all the logistics they need and that there will be nothing left and that it is actually already agreed as the secretary of state has already said. We therefore support this sending of the Croatian Army to such a responsible task of the United Nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5514	Thank you. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5515	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't think we should be talking about a routine mission right now. That expression was mentioned by the secretary of state because I don't think any such mission is routine. The point is, I would call it a task, a task of moderate risk, which I believe the Croatian soldiers who are assigned to this mission will carry out as they are asked. It's a task of moderate risk. It's about one... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5516	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5517	It is therefore a task of moderate risk and it is a unstable area of the Middle East in which, therefore, in that part of the Golan highland, it is not, however, such a situation as that in Gaza or on the West Coast or in other parts. Although there are aspects that are mentioned about training, about exercise, about developing communication skills I think they should be listed in the second plan and that things should be put up like this. It is not good that the mission is needed, because always where the mission is needed, there is some kind of armed conflict, some kind of danger to people, but while it is so good that it is still an area of moderate risk and a region in which our soldiers will also be able to train, communicate and establish it. That is why it is so good to set things up because we all remember the years when soldiers from other countries also allowed war conflicts to be reduced in Croatia, in some way to calm down the conflict and prepare the Croatian Army and to free them. I hope that the Ministry of Defence, in fact, does not hope, I am firmly convinced, that, apart from these skills, we can compare ourselves with other armies on a peace mission and by equipment, by the logistics support of our forces. And here I believe that this task will be fulfilled. Every time it is necessary to raise your hand as a parliamentary representative to send our soldier on such a mission, I think it is good to say that we want our mission to succeed, our soldiers to return home, and that Croatian soldiers, coat of arms and flag provide peace, save lives and allow a political solution to the conflict wherever it happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5518	Thank you. And distinguished representative Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5519	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, fellow MPs and MPs. As you know, our boys are preparing at the end of June for the march, a peace mission between Syria and Israel, and it's always a difficult and responsible task and decision-making. I'm glad that there's Secretary of State Rabotek who was the head of the 4th Guard's liaison, and there's people who have been through this Homeland War, and they know that these are difficult and responsible tasks, tasks carried out for miles, means hundreds of miles away from the queen. These are very difficult tasks and it is very difficult to organize and it is not easy to carry out, organise, prepare such tasks. These are the most complex operations carried out by any organised armies, which will now also be carried out by the Croatian Army. The Croatian Army has certain experiences from the Homeland War and has these war experiences that are necessary in such situations, crisis situations where it is very important how these people will set up and also own these experiences that we have and which we have acquired in Afghanistan which is very good and we have seen that this can work in even worse conditions, in even worse crisis situations than this mission at Golan High. These forces that we had sent up to Afghanistan, which were part of the 4th Guard brigade of the military police and other personnel, have indeed gained the necessary experiences that they had passed on, which they had to pass on to all other members of the Croatian Army with the aim of making the waiting more ready, welcome these and future tasks and those other tasks that will later be in Afghanistan's space. As a soldier who has passed those stages of war, I must support these tasks because I believe that only with such tasks can a soldier prepare quickly, thoroughly and responsibly for those things that are possible can happen in these areas. We know that this space is not yet certain, that this space is quite turbulent, that we have problems in Kosovo, that the crisis down there is constantly quieting, that we have problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it is still not solved as it should be solved. That's why I think our guys who are going down are gonna have to have some kind of experience getting this type because it's very important for a development officer, for a development officer, for a soldier in development because only in such situations they can gain that necessary safety of the soldiers they say can only get in these crisis situations. What's important and what's important and what's more to say and point out, and that's what I was talking to the brigade commander yesterday, these are the forces of our 2nd Guard brigade. It's their first mission from Slavonia. I know who these people are. I think they can answer and prepare this task very well and responsibly. What is very important and what we must do now is to make the mission go into June, which is that these forces are well prepared, well trained, to adapt their training and training to the situation they will have down on the ground, the culture they will have down there on the ground, to get soldiers to know all the things they need to understand more easily the relations between these two sides and, in my view, even though I think it's doing well. In my opinion, what is most important and most important these people must be assured logistically in a way that they have all the necessary resources from those basic military resources to modern systems of communication so that they do not feel less valuable or less good than other soldiers who will be worse in that space. We've been thinking and talking about it in our counseling club and we think that we should support this mission and that we should only warn about this absolute security that people must have down there and expect, of course, to be a happy mission that will successfully end and expect us to get good results down there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5520	Thank you. And distinguished representative and vice president of the home of Željka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5521	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Just a few words on this agenda point. Croatia is, to our great happiness today, a country that enjoys peace. This peace has been chosen unfortunately by the armed forces, it has been chosen by war and if there are any positive effects from the trouble we have been through and all those victims that have been given it is one direct experience acquired within the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the possibility of us participating using the armed forces to promote peace. And that's a fact that I've been thinking for a long time, no one from a circle of parliamentary parties has disputed. What is always a problem and what is always to be talked about and what is always to be done is only one element relating to every member of the armed forces that the Parliament or the state authorities are sending to any mission because most of these missions are a peacekeeping mission and despite the fact that some of these missions do not have a high level of risk that risk always exists. And that's why I want to take advantage of this situation, given that I have some experience and these experiences primarily relate to one sense of responsibility after you send people, after you send soldiers to some foreign country into some unstable area to promote peace but at the same time promote the political interests of the Republic of Croatia. I want to emphasize that one element, which is security, security and security, nothing else. What's important and what I'm only afraid of, what's the only problem with our members of the armed forces going outside is the level of security. The risk exists, should be invested much more in equipment, should be invested much more in different types of preparation and not only by members of the armed forces but also by their families. I know that's what the Department of Defense does, but I think we need to step up these efforts. We'll eventually, all of us who make decisions like this or the kind of decision that people are sent out to face both incidents and incident situations at risk. And therefore, the only thing I insist on as a representative in this House is the high level of guarantee that must be offered to us by the promoter of such proposals, which must be offered by the Ministry of Defence and by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure that the people we send outside are maximumly secure, protected and to enjoy any support they need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5522	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? Yeah. Honorable Mate Raboteg, State Secretary at the Department of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5523	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor. I feel the need to answer some of the questions raised in this debate. Well, here, I'll try to answer the questions of the esteemed representative Cain. The issue of costs, the question of the number of soldiers, is said to be a bold decision to go such a large number of soldiers. And the Croatian army never lacked courage. But it's not a reckless decision anyway. It's a very, very studied decision. I'll tell you what are the benefits if you send more troops than individual sendings. For every soldier the use is clear. Because it provides an opportunity to train entire compositions and command and logistics support and combat support and intelligence components, and so on. And what the Armed Forces are getting through learned lessons, it can't be measured by the individual sending of soldiers, and that in the far line, much more contributes to the safety of our soldiers in future missions. And that was the reason. Of course, the respected representative Antunovic warns of safety, of course, she must be maximum represented, primarily through preparation and training and we pay great attention to it. So that was primarily why we accepted this number and respected representative Kotromanović, as a soldier, will very well understand what I said earlier. So we'll do everything and do everything we can to make sure our soldiers are well prepared. And maybe it got me wrong, I didn't say it was a routine mission, but it could be interpreted as a routine mission, but I said it was a mid-risk mission. And the secretary-general, referring to peace missions, said that for now and for a long time in the area, the situation has been stable. As for the costs, therefore, I can give you specific figures. We, for staff, spend 4 million kuna on this mission, on salaries received in Croatia. Diaries, refunding... If those diaries are less than the amount of $80 that we prescribe and that we have prescribed to participate in UN peacekeeping missions, then we are re-funding the difference. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this case, we don't have to pay for anything. For other costs, the United Nations, gentlemen, and that is the characteristic of UN peacekeeping missions compared to others, that the United Nations from its various funds bear most of the cost. And otherwise, the remaining costs are for this mission 25 million kuna. We are counting on the United Nations to subdue most of its funds. So, on the other hand, you know that on the head of the Department of Defense's budget for this year, there are approximately 295 million kunas for peace missions. So, on the financial side, if we're going to talk about it, I think it's important, but it's not important, it's important security, it's important what we get. And first of all security. So that would be one of the very, I'd say, quality of our missions. That's it. So, I believe that, if we were in contact with Slovak friends who, by the way, are getting out of this peacekeeping mission because they as a member of the NATO alliance have some other priorities, they must increase their contribution to NATO-led operations, and in this mission they have been for a long time, as far as they are concerned, they certainly don't choose between one and the other. But they have their obligations as a partner of the NATO alliance to therefore, and of course participate in peacekeeping missions in Southeast Europe, etc., have other priorities. And in contact with them, in contact with our Austrian friends where we will be within their battlefield, so we have seen all the risks and we do not expect there to be surprises. And hopefully it'll all go well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5524	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Oh, I'm sorry! Corrections, two corrections! First is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5525	The secretary of state said that the Croatian Army never lacked courage, I know it! But I want to ask myself if politicians can run out of sense sometimes. Of the 16 thousand soldiers, many of them will be professional in the Croatian Army.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5526	Excuse me, what are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5527	We'll get close to the numbers. of 500 people. [[Agreement: I'm sorry, what you're correcting, correction, correction]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5528	Your Honor, I'd like you to state which quote you're correcting. I don't think that's a good example, Your Honor, it's abuse of the Rules of Procedure, which doesn't seem like much of a good example. Thank you very much. And another correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ante Kotromanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5529	Vice President of the Assembly, Secretary of State. You said Slovakia is going to NATO, Slovakia is already in NATO. But I'd say one more sentence and one more sentence. What is needed by the Croatian military is to ensure the future independent means of transport so that the Croatian Army can extract and draw its forces into the areas especially if there is some kind of crisis and other... If there is a crisis in Afghanistan now, we must have an independent means of transport that will take off from Zagreb and come there and transport very quickly, get people out of the crisis and move them to a safe area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5530	Thank you. Here's the secretary of state, just about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5531	So, we accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5532	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5533	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! We're moving on with the session. Before that, one notice. The nine points of the agenda are the draft agenda that we will put into the agenda at the next session. So before you go, I think we should arm ourselves with these documents and get ready for the next session. From this I note that the new text after the committees had some objections, which is the proposal of the state pedagogical standard of the primary school system, the high school system and the preschool system, is a new text, so I warn you, because it was already included in the agenda, but for the sake of the Committee's observations, is that so. Now I'd like to ask you to engage with the keys to see how we stand with the quorum. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Please, the sooner we start, the sooner we finish. We have one proposal from the Club of Representatives of the SDP to vote first on the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations Peace Mission at the Golan High. Well, there's 102 votes for that, so two-thirds majority. And I'll put it on, the debate is closed. The amendments of the Legislative Committee have been accepted and have become an integral part of the proposal for a decision. I am voting on the motion for a decision. You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. So 102 votes should. Please! Let's vote! Thank you. The result? 104 votes in favour. Does anyone mind? Ten abstentions. So the result of 104 votes for and 10 abstentions. I note that the motion for a decision has been accepted by the majority of votes required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5534	And we will vote on this proposal when the conditions are met. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 25 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. The debate was held: the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Mrs Jadranka Kosor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5535	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is another law that we are harmonising, which is in line with the acquis of the European Union. This is so-called. The EU law therefore proposes to accept it by emergency procedure, so in a united and first and second reading. I will briefly express what are the main changes and additions to this law. So, the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The fund as you know is one of the most powerful funds in the Republic of Croatia. Its value is changed from day to day with regard to the market which is also exposed to the fund, i.e. the shares that are in the fund. These are valuable shares of INA and HT. Seven percent of INA shares and seven percent of HT shares. The value at this point is about 4 billion kuna. I say once again the value is variable. What we generally propose to change in this law is, above all, what we are harmonising with the acquis of the European Union in this regard to equating the debt and securities of the Republic of Croatia with the debt securities of the Member States of the European Union and Member States of the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Of course, this article, or this provision, will be valid from the moment Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. In addition to this amendment, I would just like to say briefly that, of course, unfounded and unfounded different claims we have heard recently in the public from different circles in this sense that the Croatian Defence Fund will cease to exist once Croatia becomes a member of the European Union because of the rules of the European Union. So that's not true. That's exactly not true. This amendment has brought the law into line with the acquis and, of course, if Croatian defenders and members of their families who are participants if they want to, so if they do not raise their stakes by more than 50%, they will survive and, of course, as soon as Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. We believe, of course, that the assets of the fund will continue to increase in terms of privatisation flows, given that, as you know under the Privatisation Act and valuable assets of other companies such as INA and HT will enter the property of Croatian, or Croatian Defence Fund. However, we used this opportunity to bring together some other articles, or other provisions of this fund, to make it even stronger, or this Fund Act, to make it even stronger and even stronger and even more effective for the participants. Therefore, Croatian defenders and members of their families after the death of Croatian defenders. In this regard, we propose that since it is an open-end investment fund from which an individual can only step forward by selling its shares to the fund personally. We propose ladies and gentlemen, and I believe that you will accept these proposed amendments that the documents on the fund's shares cannot be transferred or transferred to other fund members or to third parties within three years of the date of acquisition of the fund's share. So that's a provision. However, we now propose that no document on the share, nor on the share of the fund members can be placed in stock, cannot be transferred to the benefit of another member of the fund or of third parties. Every store like that is worthless. I remind you of the debate also in public that they have already been so-called. The bags we've met in the past, of course, we've had very negative experience trying, so the defenders have sold their stakes. Here I repeat again again on behalf of the Management Board of the Fund but of course also on behalf of the Croatian Government because we have brought all these regulations and made positive requests and brought to you for confirmation by the Croatian Government, and today I address you as the chairman of the Management Board of the Fund. So any such action, all such actions in this sense, are absolutely useless. So they don't have any legal effect. Only participants in the Croatian Defence Fund can, therefore, repeat Croatian defenders and members of their families, and if they want to, of course, they can apply after 12 April to raise their share, but only they and none of them, third and no one who would like to benefit from it. The stakes of the fund members can only be obtained by inheriting, so after the Croatian defenders, they are based on the positive rules of the Republic of Croatia on succession. And it is also determined, so we suggest that the assets of the fund cannot be subject to bankruptcy. It is another instrument, another lever that provides the assets of the fund, i.e. ultimately Croatian defenders and members of their families. We also propose another change related to the credit activities of the Fund Management Society. The Society is reminded of the selection of the competition and the society so far according to the evaluation of the members of the Management Board of the Fund, where most of the Croatian defenders manage the assets of the Fund very correctly, of course, in accordance with the regulations. Therefore, the credit activity of the Fund management company, so-called ‘the Fund’, is regulated. repo transactions, transactions relating to the Contract of sale and repurchase of securities, which is aimed at preserving the value of the Fund. Namely, the said provision provides the daily cash liquidity of the fund so that a part of the fund members who wish to step out of the Croatian Defence Fund can be paid off. I also remind you of this deadline, even though I believe that you know well about these provisions of the law the Statute of the Administrative Committee. Namely, this deadline comes very quickly on April 12th of this year and after that every participant, so every Croatian defender and member of the family to whom it belongs, will be able to apply to the Property Management Society for raising their stake and after 60 days from that moment will decide on the value of its share. So on that very day after his submission, that share will be paid off within three days. So the simplest way to put it is within 63 days, they will be able to have their share. However, I will take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, and as chairman of the Management Board of the Fund and as Minister of Croatian Defence and as Vice-President of the Government, to call on Croatian defenders, I believe you will, too, to think clearly about what they will do on 12, 13, 14, 15 April, so whether they will submit requests to raise their shares or leave their shares in the fund. I call upon those who do not have to, therefore, that they do not have to raise that money for certain family, social or other reasons, so they do not need that money to leave their shares in the fund because it will thus enable the fund to survive. I repeat once again if 50% of Croatian defenders, so participants would raise their stakes, the fund would be liquidated under the law. It is important that the fund survives because, thanks to the existence of the Croatian Defence Fund, we have and this is what the Croatian Assembly brought in in the previous meeting, and the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders, i.e. defenders, as well as the Croatian Defence Fund. Namely, the Croatian Defence Fund's profit is allocated so that one third is reinvested, one third is divided by participants, and one third is deployed so that 40% goes to the Scholarship Fund and 60% into the Foundation. And precisely thanks to the existence of this fund whose law we are now talking about, we can have more than 41 million kuna in this year for the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders and defenders themselves. We have made a decision on over 10,000 scholarships in two years in two academic, or school years. We have increased scholarships for this academic, or school year so that those for high school students are 400 kunas for students of 1,000 kunas. So quite a decent scholarship. We could all do this thanks to the existence of a scholarship fund, and the scholarship fund is to say the child of this Croatian Defence Fund. Ladies and gentlemen's trust, this year it's going to have about 70 million kuna. So it's from that one-third gain of 70 million kunas that are distributed to Croatian defenders, of course, on the basis of requirements that have severe social opportunities, family diseases, children's diseases, different exposure to different disasters, such as fires when the whole house is burned down, etc. We couldn't have done all this without this Croatian Defence Fund whose law I'm talking about today. So here I propose and ask you to support in your debate and also send a call to the Croatian defenders, as well as you who are Croatian defenders in this honorable House, I believe that the Croatian defenders will respond precisely to these calls. Here's some more data. I'm talking about getting it, so here's the information for you. The realised profit of the fund last year is greater than 195 million kuna. We also finished one other big job, and this is the calculation of the total number of shares in the Croatian Defence Fund. It represents ladies and gentlemen 5 million 800 thousand 212.13 shares, and this number of shares is related to 504 thousand 043, or 43 members of the fund, so the participants. I repeat these are defenders, but also members of their families after death, so behind those who died and for those who came after the war unfortunately died. We also made a reservation of 32 thousand 999 shares for a total of 2 thousand 867 defenders. There, so for those we still don't have complete data for. For various reasons, your data is still complemented. I repeat that all the data we have, which is also in the register, which is based on the fund, are data that we received from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, so the Croatian Ministry of Defense, of course, from wartime. And here's what I think is an important announcement for you and information. It refers to the value of the fund's share. The value of the stake is about 600 kuna and then, of course, each defender can calculate how much money, or how much value it is at the end. Here are ladies and gentlemen the basic information on the amendments and additions to this law, but also on the activities of the fund, i.e. the Management Board of the Fund. I thank you for your attention and ask you to support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families that are in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, while the other part is made even stronger by Croatian defenders and members of their families from possible manipulations or from possible natural abuses. Finally, since we have received amendments for the time being from the Committee on Legislatives, I would say that of course these proposed amendments to which the law in this nomotechnical sense is improving, of course we accept. Thank you very much and please support these changes and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5536	Thank you. Would the committee reporter like to take the floor, the War Veterans Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5537	I don't think there's any need for me to read this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5538	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on European Integration? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5539	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Croatian Defence, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, with the Final Proposal for a Law in which the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is to be harmonised with the legal gains of the European Union and in this proposal it is to be brought into line with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. In particular, what is important to say about these amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families that compliance with European legislation as well as with legal gains and with the Council of Europe concerns the investment of funds and the possibility of investment in European countries, as well as in countries which are organisations for economic cooperation or OECD abbreviations. So, the fund has not had the possibility so far, but we can also stress that this investment will not be possible until the Republic of Croatia enters full membership of the European Union. Then these rules and this law will begin to apply. What is important to stress is that, in addition to these European harmonisations of the Croatian Defence Fund, which started with work and in which the law was passed in 2003, it experienced significant and significant changes and additions in 2004 so that it could actually start to function and work, so that the framework set up in 2003 was complete with legal norms and that the Fund could function as an open fund in the Croatian market, so that Croatian defenders actually have a valuable and commendable move that the Government of Croatia made to ensure for them and their families and families of the dead Croatian value defenders, to which they achieved the rights of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is 7% of the shares of HT, as well as 7% of the shares of the INA. Today we also heard from the vice president that this is the strongest and most valuable fund in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these changes in investment in the assets of the fund as well as in the European institutions when the Republic of Croatia enters the European Union and on the domestic market certainly have their own legal but strict intention, such as these amendments to the Law on the Inability of Stocks, Inability to acquire mass or any manipulation of securities, the shares of the fund and the transfer of ownership, as well as anything else which would be the subject of any transactions by the shareholder, i.e. Croatian defenders as well as members of their families to third parties who would manage. Protection is also necessary and necessary from the point of view of the security of funds because the time and date is approaching when fundholders can dispose of them means a moratorium of those three years ends. Therefore, on April 12th, this possibility ceases and all Croatian defenders who are in a position or force to offer their shares to the fund. Therefore, it was also necessary to ensure this measure in order for the ransom to go within the fund so as not to have to sell shares for the purchase of the share from the defenders. But we, as well as the Deputy Prime Minister, and the Croatian Democratic Community club, appeal to all those who want to remain members of the fund to remain, so that they do not make a massive appearance of the offer, because the offer and demand in the stock market certainly and reduces the value and decreases the value, so I can say that today's realistically estimated value of those greatest shares that were all the time in the Homeland War, which were in all those critical moments is somewhere around 30,000 kuna. With a mass offer on the market, i.e. By offering the fund, she would certainly burn more than half and possibly be some kind of maybe, possibly 10,000 kuna. I therefore appeal also as a Croatian defender to all those who do not necessarily have to offer and sell their shares, because other legal instruments to prevent them from being able to do so, to leave their stakes, because they will certainly grow their value in the future by privatising the further 7% of Croatian companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, surely this value will increase significantly and allow them to have a secure future, to have value. And by waiting for the market to stabilize after the first opportunity to sell, surely, by waiting and using the right moments, it will certainly be worth more if they think and intend to sell, than in the first run to be too many. What is safe is that if 50% of the offers appear that the fund will stop working, that it will be liquidated and that there will be no further possibilities of these forms that have been made to benefit the children of Croatian defenders, themselves Croatian defenders, and that is a treasured purpose as well as the purpose of the scholarship fund. We heard, 10,000 scholarships is a huge number. The increased value of these scholarships to thousands of kunas for students and 500 kuna for high school students certainly means a lot to all those who attend colleges and who are educated in high schools, and who have met the criteria that do not go beyond that financial norm set out in the grant Regulation as well as the treasured purpose which, you have heard, this year, 70 million kuna and helps those who are in real need. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the law certainly go in the right direction, using those that will be protected from attempts that are even published in public and in advertising, buying out stakes, and then trying to acquire the right to these stakes by some form of stock, some forms of bankruptcy, some sort of variety of wits and bypassing legal norms to become owners. We're aware that interests are different. Market interests and owners, including the majority owners of these companies, and those who have shares and are not majority, are certainly too huge. They're too huge for the purpose of owning these 7% of INA shares or 7% of HT shares to get those 7% of the shares, which is the preoccupation and goal of some who certainly want to have absolute or majority control in our companies. Therefore, the responsibility of all of us as well as Croatian defenders is equal in terms of the possibility of buying out these shares and we want to break up with what is called that we do not have the means at the time when it is necessary to buy out those who really think it will solve the existence and we do not think that any Croatian defender with such a financial injection by selling his shares if he has the highest possible value, it would be somewhere 30 thousand kuna, he cannot fix his current financial situation important, he cannot buy a house or apartment, he can not achieve a new car with this, he can help himself once in a month, two or three but certainly not in the long term. And therefore, my appeal from this assembly speaker is even stronger and bigger to the stability of the fund, in order to keep these values, which are now about 600 kuna per share, and I think that in this direction we should all think, everyone should act, the entire Croatian public, all associations derived from the Homeland War as they do in the stands, but we should further appeal that we should be patient in the shareholders' business, not rush and break down, we should not be massed into something called now that I will get 5 or 10 thousand kuna once and spend and then I will never again have the opportunity to create something that is valuable and be a participant in the INA or HT. So these legal forms are going that way for the fund to survive. Ensuring 15% chance in... In order to ensure the purchase of funds from stakeholders who will offer and liquid assets that exist currently in the fund will surely ensure that the fund remains the permanent value of Croatian defenders, to remain in it what will be enough money for the scholarship of their children, as well as for their own good purpose, to help all those who need it most, who have suffered in any elemental disaster, any other opportunities have been found where they really need to use a treasured purpose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian defenders as an honorable generation of Croats who have claimed freedom, sovereignty, and independence of the Republic of Croatia certainly deserve to continue to come to this fund at 7% of the value of Croatian companies so that it will certainly be amongst the richest and most stable and that it will be meaningful to them, their families, to all those who have the need and inability to do anything else but use a trust and scholarship to use this fund in the permanent, in the years ahead we certainly use these wonderful opportunities. I would therefore first and foremost like to commend this proposal which has come in line with European norms and which ensures the stability of the fund and provides funds for the future in the Croatian defenders' fund. Once again, an appeal to everyone to keep the values they have received, to stay in the fund for as long as possible, to wisely assess when offering shares on the market, because the mass offer is certainly taking off the price and will get the misery and will be left without what they might have and that is the maximum maximum of the maximum of the Croatian companies of their 7%, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will decide that one by one will be privatised to 7% and to the fund, so the value will be the largest and most meaningful. Here, so once again I invite them to keep their values as long as they can to make the fund work, to get as many scholarships as possible and to... The purpose worked as long and as high-quality as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5540	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5541	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Vice President of the Government, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. As the Deputy Prime Minister said, the total assets of this fund are 4 billion 299 million 154 thousand kuna. That was on 31.12.2007. So, there's nothing... changed in these three months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the current law, money was invested at 40% in securities, the European Union, the OECD, 40% in deposits in financial institutions, 40% in stock exchanges. What it certainly marked means in 2007 is the dividend of INA and HT for 2006, which is this 192 million kuna and the sale of 32.5% of T-HT shares. True, the T-HT stock on 31.12.2007 was at $ 354.44, the public tender was concluded at a price of €265. So that's where the government went for the benefit of the citizens, but today the entire stock market in the Croats is shaking and the shares of T-HT are approaching a slightly lower price, I'm not going to tell the initial because it's 317 kuna on today. It's clear that I care about the property of this fund, about the defenders, but I'm also worried about the 250 grand, 350 grand who haven't sold the shares of T-HT yet. I wouldn't want anyone to end up being maimed because of the stocking earthquakes. On the other hand, if there was not so much abuse of defence rights and what the ovation of "diagnose 1", "diagnose 2", maybe the real defenders would have far greater opportunities and thus have to share those opportunities with those who don't deserve it, I'll say no respect if through false diagnosis they came to rights that don't belong to them. Today, in 2008, we have about 100% more people with disabilities than there were in 95 when the war ended as if there was another war being waged by gentlemen. In Croatia, another 7,000 people are waiting for a diagnosis of PTSD. We'll have in a year, two 50, 55, maybe thousands of people with disabilities in the Homeland War. And let's stop playing with it and let the state do everything possible to keep this from happening again because otherwise it won't even be able to track financially in this country anymore. We often know how to speak and citizens often point out that social not being social, fair etc., but I also say that there is no state that consistently exercises rights towards its veterans, but what does the Republic of Croatia do? That's true, and those who claim otherwise are simply lying. Although these include the use of these false diagnosiss, there are those who are privileged and who should remain without these rights. The other ones, so they need to be found, they need to be removed from the system, and the first ones, I'd say rehabilitate and compensate. However, this will not be possible without a public register of defenders being kept as a snake's feet in this country. And we know that the status of a disabled person carries a whole series of benefits, pensions, shares, rights to children, these advantages in employment, etc. What's almost amazing is that a whole series of defense organizations have been to publish that register, and now suddenly overnight they're changing their thinking and thinking. I personally believe that another generation should be rehabilitated, and these are the People's Liberation War fighters, there are only 14 thousand of them, and I don't know why they shouldn't have done it once. Or it's waiting for biology to solve this "problem" under the quotes itself. To get back to the fund. On 12 April 2008, the deadline of 3 years of the legal ban on participation in the Fund expires, which means for the month and something. Not a month from now, in less than that. Clearly, the biggest impact has the shares of INE and THT. And my advice is that everyone waits, that the opportunities on the stock market are stabilised and that the shares don't go down in this year 2008. 2008 will be a difficult year. This Fund is as we have heard one commendable attempt to make additional rewards to defenders and their families and so on. Unfortunately, the weeds that appear need to be isolated, although I have said several times, to the disabled all others clearly according to the possibilities. Otherwise, it should also be said that the value of this Fund today is about 300 million kuna less than at the beginning of last year, no matter what dividends from that THT and this other one have increased or yielded 192 million kuna revenue. Or else 12. 4. In 2008, as we know the decline in the ban on the availability of shares and perhaps let it wait for the sale, will stabilise the market, should not be pushed in because it will certainly be the value of those shares that will be put down by a stampede that will happen on those stocks, will be made available to everyone and will at least be able to afford the state. But clearly, it's not the same to talk to us with 13, 14, 15 thousand kunas or someone who receives 3 or 4 thousand kuna salaries, or has 2.5 or 3,000 kuna pensions. Not even 30,000 kunas may, as Mr. Djakic says, will help us, will not help us, but someone who has 3 or 4 thousand kunas, 30,000 can certainly help him, but let him wait. This Law and I dare say that is cosmetics, and the right to change would be to prohibit or ban those shares from being available for another year to wait for the stock market to stabilize. All in all, clearly, in compliance with European norms is, it is not disputed, the law will be supported, but once again I will say, the real change would be if we could maybe extend the deadline if someone who reaches 12. Four of these years in at least a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5542	Thank you. We have four, we have four corrections of incorrect allegations. He is the first respected representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5543	Mr. Vice President, I will correct a series of incorrect allegations, I will correct one or two. And this is that the number of disabled people in the Homeland War is doubled, which is absolutely incorrect with 35 thousand who were in 2007 and 08 to 09, and by passing a new law, only 5 thousand is new. Which has a lot more demands and the procedure is much more difficult to obtain disability so three years for PTSD, three times the commission has to go out, must be in hospital treatment and the rest. Mr. Cain doesn't know that! The other thing is, when he talks about 14 thousand NOB fighters, it's absolutely incorrect, because the NOB fighter we saw and in the budget there are 70 thousand plus the victim of the war and the income total of 125 thousand is on the pension fund, still the NOB fighter and we don't scream about it, we let it be the way it is. And thirdly, as regards the publication of the register, I would ask Mr Cain and all those who wish to propose amendments to the Constitution of Article 37, which clearly states that the data is personal and that they cannot be published.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5544	Thank you. Dear Representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5545	I give up. A colleague, Djakic, has already corrected it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5546	Thank you. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5547	Thank you very much, as usual, my colleague Caine is not here to hear the truth because he does not love the truth, and the truth is next. It is not true that the entire exchange in Croatia is shaking, the whole world stock exchange is shaking, let it see on the Internet reports from the London and Tokyo Stock Exchange. Secondly, which is not true, there are many abuses of defence rights and mentioning diagnosis. It's not true there's a lot of them. There are individuals, they are controversial, they need to be investigated and punished. And finally, he says, incorrectly, of course, that abuses cannot be corrected without the publication of the defence registry. That's not true, the first and second diagnosis is corrected without the publication of the register. Therefore, anyone who knows about abuse is obliged as a citizen to report it to the competent institutions to be punished and investigated. And I would ask him, he's gone, but I'm going to ask him out for coffee, why don't you ask him to publish himself first, and I'm looking for him as a defense attorney, the registry of the aggressors, and then the defense attorney?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5548	Thank you. And the final correction of the incorrect quote, the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so dear colleague Hebrang said, I'm sorry that my colleague Caina is gone, that he said everything and left, but I have to correct one in a series of incorrect allegations, again on the defense register. I'll try to quote, my colleague said, "Someone's guarding the defense register like a snake's foot." That's not true. He forgot what the constitutional provision quoted by his colleague Djakic was, and forgot that in 2003 a Personal Data Protection Act was adopted in this House. So when we change that, then we'll only be able to publish a few things.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5550	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. SDP club respected representative Ante Kotromanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5551	Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs. The Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families is a very important project for the future and existence of defenders. In this House of Commons ten days ago, we had a debate about this same Fund where we saw serious problems and warned about the negative consequences of the Fund and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and about the possibility of selling the share of defenders on April 16th. We are also a witness when we unanimously supported the Business Report of the Fund and asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the management structure of the Fund to take certain measures and procedures to protect the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families from any Croatian profiteers. In line with this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has issued a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families. The proposals mentioned show that the government has made certain adjustments aimed at making a kind of protection of the Croatian Defence Fund. It is already known that the risk of the fund being liquidated is very high in case the net assets of the fund fall below 50% of the total assets of the fund in the last six months. If this happens, the Government must make a decision on the liquidation of the fund. What did the government do? In her final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law, she made two good decisions, two good articles, which is quite fine, which will certainly make it impossible for certain people to interfere when we talk about the Defence Fund. This will in one way make it impossible to manipulate and interfere with the stakes as said in these proposals and will enable the fund to take the necessary loans so that they can buy one part of the share of defenders who want to immediately sell their shares, which is about the net value of the fund's assets around 15% of the shares that some have bloody acquired, and some have won on the blood of these first ones. But what my court also needed to do, and unfortunately not even though there were certain announcements is an amendment to Article 31. In my opinion, he is the most important, most important and crucial thing in the very existence and future of the Fund. Article 37 refers to the liquidation of the Fund. I'll read it to get you into the debate. “In the event that, during the activities of the Fund, rather than before the expiry of the period of 3 years from the date of its establishment according to objective market and economic indicators, the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 4 of this Act is most effectively served by the transfer of the Fund's funds to members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the transfer of its assets to the members of the Fund and the liquidation of the Fund. The winding-up of the Fund will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Investment Funds Act." In my view, these changes should have touched Article 31 as key things, most important to extend in a secure manner the work of the Fund in the future. So we wouldn't be in a situation where we're worried about what's going to happen in a month, two when the defenders start selling out their stakes, and whether the Fund will exist as well as the Croatian Defence Foundation. Only the Fund’s liquidity is treated by the amendments. So the Fund won't have to sell its assets right away to pay off the defenders who want to collect their shares. However, if a large number of defenders arrive for payment and the value of shares in the Fund's portfolio falls in the meantime, then Article 31 can lead to the liquidation of the fund. In this situation, there is a question of one side of the amount of profits which, according to the Annual Report, belongs to defenders in various ways. And another very important question, which is 7% of the value of HEP, HRT, Croatian Waters and Forests and other institutions that should also be privatized, which would never enter... The fund if there's a fund to be liquidated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Probably someone powerful, economically powerful, I don't think it's of course that you wouldn't get me wrong, absolutely believe in the real and fair and good intentions of the government. But he in one way wants this Fund to disappear from the scene as soon as possible so that part of the property will never enter the defense fund. Is anyone doing this planically? Is anyone behind this? With whose interest we can only speculate. We should have changed Article 31 that talks about the liquidation of the Fund. Unfortunately, this type of open fund is obviously not a happy solution in the long run for defenders who are not classical investors in the capital market. The fund will be shut down in a few years and thus used as defenders will be short-term. We haven't heard the word of an expert, trust fund manager, banker, what they think about the future of a defense fund. In which segment we should have changed the law on this Fund to remain on the financial market permanently and to permanently benefit the defence population, and to act developmentally through investing its capital in domestic and economic projects. The fund needs to stay on the market. The Fund should have a developmental character that would invest economic projects. It's done today as we heard about 4 billion kunas worth of property, and in terms of much greater value. It's about capital that's more than respectable. In the way he organizes and invests, he needs... a serious expert debate especially in the situation where the fund is already being liquidated in this year and the total assets are being sold. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, and probably in ten days, the stock market won't stabilize so easily, and the stock value can fall further. It's not the time to sell, and the trust manager of the Trustee of Ersteinvest could have made more efforts to explain the general situation. He may have sent a letter to all the defenders and explained why it was not good and why it was not time to sell. In the end, on behalf of the SDP club, we will support these changes that could prevent interference and muttering about defence stakes, although ultimately we have not strategically solved the future of the Fund in the long term. And I'm gonna end up with that Alcaric dictionary we didn't hit the srid, we hit it at two o'clock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5552	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5553	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Vice-President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of an esteemed colleague who said: “Someone is speculating with the existence of this Fund.” From the opening words of the Deputy Prime Minister and President of the Management Board of the Fund, it was clear how important this Fund is and all the defenders are invited not to sell their shares they have to ensure the maximum duration of this Fund and thus achieve all the assistance that they provide to the children of defenders, as well as to the defenders themselves. Someone else is speculating!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5554	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative, Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5555	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, esteemed Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families is part of the National Programme for Harmonisation of the Law of the Republic of Croatia with the regulations of the European Union and its adoption. Of course, in order to comply with the rules of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union and it is certain that its adoption is necessary and welcome for this reason and for other reasons. It is also certain that it is necessary to equate the investment of assets in debt securities whose issuer is Member States of the European Union or Member States of the Economic Co-operation and Development Organisation with investments in such securities issued by the Republic of Croatia. Other provisions proposed by these amendments and additions to the laws such as preventing the assets of the fund from being held by the stock, commission or bankruptcy. These are all things that should be dealt with safely by this law, but there are also many other things that are not resolved or mentioned at all when amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. As is known, in 12.4.2008 the legal deadline of three years expires in which members of the Croatian Defence Fund were unable to transfer their shares to other entities, so an objectively opening is the legal possibility that the granting of the status of Croatian defenders without the criteria provided for by the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defencers would result in a massive transfer of shares and thus the assets of the Fund would become much less valuable or even worthless and then the opening up of opportunities for the liquidation of the Croatian Defence Fund. So what is mentioned when it comes to the status of Croatian defenders, and then obtaining the right to share, is one of the most controversial issues, because I will only remind myself that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers makes it very clear who the Croatian defender is, and this is the person who, as a volunteer and a member of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, has been organised in defence and independence, and under his participation in defence and independence, I quote: "armed resistance to the aggressor and action in direct connection with resistance". So the emphasis is on participating in armed resistance, and of course it can only be the one who stood up to the enemy with weapons and no one else and no one else. This interpretation, which is essentially very simple, again raises the question of records and the state of the register of Croatian defenders, which we from the Croatian People's Party have already talked about many times, and many associations have come from the Homeland War. It is known that the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of the Interior are the holders of all records from the Homeland War, and that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity was the holder of a register and that these are the most addressed bodies of the state authorities best directed to who can all be the Croatian defender in terms of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, and once again we ask that, within the shortest possible time, those records be reviewed and that they comply with the real situation. When it comes to the specific law discussed today by this High House, the Croatian People's Party club simply wants to remind itself that the HVIDRA Association Community of the City of Zagreb launched before the Constitutional Court a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and should also be taken into account when adopting this law. If we miss the opportunity now, and the opportunity is indeed the right to resolve other issues related to the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families with the proposed changes, many dilemmas and dubiosis will remain open. We believe that, with the proposed changes, and for the sake of the integrity of the content of the law, provisions that are fundamentally strengthening the Croatian Defence Fund should be incorporated, so that they do not happen for the reasons mentioned above. Furthermore, we believe that fund management is a particularly sensitive issue and should be proposed and there should be a supervisory body in the Croatian Defence Fund, chosen by the defenders themselves. As the highest body of the fund, there would have to be a congregation made up of all the members of the fund, with the maintenance technique of such a assembly being prescribed by some sublegal acts and not burdened with this law. It should be further disabled in any way to involve the state in the work and business of the fund, and in particular to prevent the sale of membership stakes outside the circle of Croatian defenders, which means, in other words, to prescribe the obligation to buy first by other fund members, but also to prevent the accumulation of shares in individuals' hands already to establish a system of equality. The fund management model should also be reviewed and other solutions should be found in agreement with the members. So these are all the problems that simply require that these changes and the addition of the laws be incorporated into their solutions and thus solve many doubts, and as I have mentioned further one of the most important issues for resolving such doubts is the publication of the register of Croatian defenders, and this time we call on those in charge in the resolution ministries to finally publish the register of Croatian defenders. Given the known excuses that this is impossible because of the legal rules prohibiting the publication of such data, there is no reason not to change all these laws and regulations if there is political will for it, and the public's interest certainly exists. At this point without violating the existing rules of Croatian legislation, it may only be possible to publish those data which are not under ban, at least the name and name of the Croatian defender, date of birth, unit, etc. which is not under ban. Finally, the most important thing is that the laws concerning Croatian defenders comply with the real needs of Croatian defenders and that these laws prescribe what defenders expect, and this is neither in this nor in any other law. The law I'm proposing to repeat without getting into the essence of the problem is a step back for our defenders and certainly another disappointment for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5556	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5557	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it is necessary to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who is the defenders, the organized resistance to the enemy, brought exclusively into connection with the carrying of weapons. So it turns out to you, and you said that only the defender was the one with the gun in his hand who was involved, I don't know, either. I shot and defended myself that way. That's absolutely incorrect. From what? Because, for God’s sake, all that was in the service of the defense of this land is a resistance. So you would lower the defense of this country only to the men who carried the weapons. I'm asking you, were the doctors involved in the war advocacy? True, formal doctors carry weapons, but what about those doctors who operated in Polish hospitals on the very almost lines of the battlefield? Is Sinisa Glavasevic a defender? So let's not talk like that! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5558	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the esteemed Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5559	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. After the debate on behalf of the clubs here I have the need to report on behalf of the promoter, on behalf of the Government of course the Ministry of which I am headed, but above all on behalf of the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund. I repeat, the Board of Directors of the Fund consists of most Croatian defenders and no decision on the Management Board of the Fund can be made if the representatives of Croatian defenders do not want it, or if they are against it. Most of the decisions, I want to point out, may not be too important at this point, but at the board of directors' meetings, it has been brought unanimously over the past four years. I have a need just to refer to a few facts, or in my view, and according to the Government's view of incorrect facts, or here's what I'm going to use. First of all, Mr. Kotromanović said here at the pay phone, I really have to wonder, since for the first time I've heard, we've had a lot of contacts, there have been discussions about this bill and on the Committee on War Veterans, so as far as I know there have been no such remarks. So Mr Kotromanovic, on behalf of the SDP, expressed the party's view here that the government wants this fund to disappear, or the Croatian Defence Fund to be liquidated. Powerfully, I resolutely reject such claims. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government and in the previous meeting and in this assembly, so the Government, whose head or governments Dr Ivo Sanader is headed, has always been in the first place in the interest of the fund finally getting up, to have the fund on its feet. In the end, we started all the mechanisms for the fund to exist, so that the fund could survive, because the only thing we could find was one Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families who, according to the point of view of the profession, couldn't possibly have been implemented by the then Securities Commission. So we only found a piece of paper. We have changed this law so that the fund can stand on stable feet, I repeat, according to the guidance of the then Securities Commission. And then we could start all other actions related to the establishment of the fund. In the past term, the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader has introduced valuable shares into the Croatian Defence Fund. First of all, 7% of HT shares. However, I would like to remind you ladies and gentlemen that the Government had no obligation, for example, to bring in 7% of the INA shares in the sense that some payment deadline was set, or the introduction of those shares. However, in 2005, the government had entered 7% or 7% of the INA shares into the Croatian Defence Fund. I repeat, she shouldn't have done it. We could simply calculate because it was politics. Finally, we could count, so let's say we enter those 7% shares of INA in 2007 before the elections and say, here we are now bringing valuable shares to Croatian defenders. I think this information is about the fact that the government honestly and honestly went into this major project of putting into office the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. So this claim by Mr. Kotromanovic that I'm surprised at above all is absolutely untrue and I reject it. The government of the Republic of Croatia cares and is in the interest of the Croatian Defence Fund to survive. The government has an obligation that it will fulfil if the fund survives, and I am sure it will, because Croatian defenders are responsible for themselves and society, because they showed it when they went to defend and free Croatia. That's for sure they'll do it now. The government will, of course, transmit, I'm in the opening part of the introductory word and I said, and everything else that will happen when the second wave of privatisation, which can be introduced, the government will do so in turn. So, another piece of information that I didn't provide because it's not directly related to the Fund Act, but we also changed the fund's statute in such a way that, of course, the government has confirmed that those defenders of ladies and gentlemen, who will redeem their share, who will take their money, their property, will remain participants. So they will also be affected by everything the government will bring into the Croatian Defence Fund in the future. So, and after that they remain participants in the fund. So here's Mr. Kotromanovic, I'm glad you're back, it's incorrect and this is a testimony to this decision confirmed by the government, because the government confirms the fund's statute that the government is serious and that the government wants the fund to survive first and foremost because thanks to the fund we have repeat scholarships and trust funds. And I believe you'll do everything you can to keep the fund on its firm and stable feet. Secondly, there were observations, just as from the SDP club, that these changes should have been made and agreed with experts. Of course we have done so in agreement with the experts, in particular in agreement with the HANF, with their approval or with their confirmation. So I don't think there's any better or bigger confirmation. I suppose the functioning of the HANF is beyond doubt. Mr. Representative, if you have any objections, I'd be very happy to listen, but I'm asking you to come here while I'm talking, that this is important so you don't disturb me. I'd like to ask you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5560	Please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5561	In addition, there was an observation here that we should have explained to the Croatian defenders what this deadline is about after 12 April. Here, Mr. Representative, I would like to inform you that hundreds of tribunes have been held throughout Croatia, on which members of the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund who have interpreted what it is, why it is important that the Fund survives, which are their rights. And I think here's the fact that disproves what's said. I will say just a little bit more because there has been a problem here, too, with the natural publication of the Croatian Defence Register. Once again perhaps for a billion times, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has absolutely no reason not to publish a register, a reason that would be the personal nature of any member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, the Government or the Ministry and I, as a resolute minister, cannot do so at this time because I would, of course, do several errors, but of course, also criminal acts. Of course I don't want to share that. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data on my repeated requests has made it very clear that the statement sent to all the media has not been published by the majority. But in this interpretation, it is very clear that the register is impossible to publish because it is personal data which are according to the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, according to the Constitution as a basic regulation, protected even if all of this data were to be made available as a proposal, if they were removed, names and last names cannot be published, and this is what the representatives should know. It could simply be published in that case if each of the people in the register, who gave their consent on that list, gave their written confirmation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as much as anyone from the Croatian public, anyone from political circles printed, pressed, accused anyone from the government or myself personally on the publication of the register, we cannot do so at this time. It seems to me, to allow one personal reflection, that precisely this hack for the publication of the register, so to publish the name, last name, address, home number of all those who received the status of Croatian defenders during the defense of Croatia, is going to create a negative atmosphere, one climate that actually pushes the defenders to raise their stakes and those who are constantly looking for an announcement that they know can't actually be working on the liquidation of the fund, so that people are afraid to say better that I take it now, who knows what tomorrow will be. Therefore, I ask you in the discussion of the register, even if this is not the subject now, consider the fact that no one in Croatia can and must not violate the rules and especially not a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here, unfortunately, my time is up. Thank you very much. I ask you once again to support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5562	Thank you. We have four corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Honorable representative Ante Kotromanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5563	Vice President of the Parliament. Deputy Prime Minister, you said I wanted the fund shut down. Of course that's not true. Who does? I don't think anyone normal in this Republic of Croatia wants the fund to stop existing. I have warned and constantly warn that there is a great possibility that the fund will be liquidated if the value of the property falls below 50%. Article 31 clearly discusses this, and I believe that this article should be corrected and thus ensure the long-term strategic functioning of the Fund in the Republic of Croatia. And secondly, you said you were running a hack on the register. No, no one's having a hickey. I talked a few times about that defense register. I'm going to say three reasons why I want the defense register published. First is a number of 500 thousand people, which is too much for me. The second is a system of points that is unfair, unfair for warriors and that absolutely degrades those of us who have fought, fought in Croatia, who have died and bled for the benefit of those who have absolutely never been on the ground. And third, the non-combat sector. In the non-combat sector we have 14, 15 thousand people I think, somewhere. That we've transferred these 100,000 people that I think are somehow more.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5564	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5565	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5566	The next correction to the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5567	Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Kosor. Here, I would just like to point out, you mentioned on several occasions that the Croatian Government has done everything fairly in connection with the Croatian Defence Fund. Well, then I invite you to publish the Croatian Defence Register.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5568	Say correcting an incorrect quote... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5569	Because if the register is fair, there's nothing to be afraid of. Here, please publish it, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5570	Do not use an incorrect quote institute. And the correction of the incorrect quote by Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5571	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister said that the agency had given an opinion that data from the defence registry could not be published. That's not true. The Agency has made an official statement stating that existing rules governing the registration issue do not provide for a publication, which means that the Government does not have to publish the register. It's something else entirely. So, second thing. Several times in public, particularly from the government, it was said that JMBG is a key problem in the publication and according to the regulations on the register there is no intended data at all to be entered, there is a general and specific part. It's neither in general nor in a special part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5572	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representativeplatovar Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5573	So I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations of the Deputy Prime Minister who said she wanted to create a hack by publishing the register. On the contrary, we want the register to be published in order to be proud of Croatian defenders. We want to know who defended the Croatian homeland and we want to give them a special recognition, not that only a few people represent themselves as Croatian defenders and that there are then those who really do not deserve it in any way. So, we want, don't, gentlemen. If you've been giving me advice about not acting like an advocate, then please don't act like one when you're sitting in a bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5574	Don't throw it away. Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the Honorable representative Krešimir Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5575	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, respected state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would first like to thank the Croatian government and the ministry and, in particular, the minister who has done so much that here, after the last 2000 years, the dignity of Croatian defenders is finally restored. As the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families is known, the law has been established. Officially, he started working in April 2005 after the Croatian government's decision to transfer 7% of shares of HT to the Croatian government's fund. We must say that it is a commendable Croatian government project aimed at improving the social status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The members of the Fund are Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, who based their data on the single register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, the Ernest Investment Fund Management Society has calculated the share in the fund. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and the Investment Funds Act, an open-type investment fund is the type of type an individual can come from only by selling his share of the fund in person. Furthermore, the provisions of Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Statute on the Croatian Defence Fund is prescribed that documents in the fund's shares cannot be transferred or transferred to other fund members or to third parties within three years of the date of acquisition of the fund's share. Over the course of three years, the shares can only be redeemed in the fund. No document is further a member's share for three years, shares can only be redeemed in the fund. The Fund cannot, the Fund cannot be stocked, transferred to other Fund members or third parties. Every store like that is worthless. The share of the Fund members can only be obtained by succession. Following this, the need for a provision to be introduced into the Law that would prevent the assets of the fund from being the subject of pledges and executions. It is also established that the assets of the Fund cannot be the subject of the acquired mass. Furthermore, there was a need to regulate the movement of the company's fund management activities,... Business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Jobs means those relating to the sales contract and... the value of the paper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's aimed at preserving the value of the Fund. Namely, the said provision provides the Fund's daily cash liquidity so that a part of the members who wish to step out of the Croatian Defence Fund can be paid off. The amendment also sets out certain restrictions on the movement of activities, namely PREPRO businesses can only be used for the purpose of the withdrawal of the share of the fund, up to 15% of the net value of the Fund's assets. I note that the amendment to the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and supported the Croatian Government has been mentioned above. The assets of the fund, the assets of the fund are shares, i.e. shares of the companies, classified, reserved for Croatian defenders, members of their families, from the privatisation of legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia, as referred to in Article 3 of the Law. Since the Fund has no legal personality, its assets are managed by Erste Invest d.o.o. The largest share of assets of the Fund 92.84% are shares of HT and INE transferred to the account of the fund during 2005, 7% of the shares of INE and 7% of HT. The realized profit of the Fund in 2007 is 195 million and 351 thousand kuna. In accordance with Article 29 of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and the Homeland War and members of their families, the profit is determined to be shared as follows. So, one-third get out... One-third of the profits will be paid to members of the Croatian, Croatian Defence Fund and one-third will be spent, one-third will be spent on the social, development and humanitarian needs of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and for the Foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, as legal entities financed from the third net profit of the Croatian Defence Fund is intended precisely for the social, development and humanitarian needs of Croatian defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Based on the invitation to tender for scholarships in the school year 2006/2007. A total of 2972 scholarships were paid, and a total of 7,000 and 45 grant applications were granted in the 2007 school/academia year. I note that individual scholarships to students and students increased by 100% compared to the previous year. It is apparent from this point of view that the Fund has so far justified its existence and the members of the Fund have been left with the possibility that, by the expiry of the legal period, the prohibitions of the participation of the Fund to decide on the future fate of the Fund. And I'd also like to say in the end and invite the defenders not to bow down under the bags that will definitely haunt them after April 12th. Because these same bags, me, most of them were the same in the '90s, 91st, took their purses and went to the first line in Frankfurt, I don't know, Munchen, Vienna and so on. So I call them this way, and they do not bow down before them, and do not sell them their share; let them keep them, for they will surely have an even greater value. Here, therefore, I will support the Final Bill on the Croatian Defence Fund and the members of their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5576	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time for registration, for a debate of 10 minutes at 11 o'clock and 42 minutes. Let's move on with the individual debate. It's all right, I'm sorry, it's not registered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5577	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here, I'm going to replicate a colleague where the insurance funds needed to be in the first run, i.e. in buying out shares in a larger number of owners to ensure 15% of the Fund’s net asset value in REPRO transactions, i.e. In order to avoid the sale of shares. Also when you talk about those bags that went probably to Munchen who were called Munchen,... When talking about some false defenders in the Croatian Parliament today, about the publication of the register and all these issues concerning the publication, I would like to stress that the personal data protection agencies signed by Mr. Director Franjo Lack, she made it clear that the applicable regulations do not allow publication in any form of a single register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although I am, along with all these legal obstacles, with the Constitution in Article 37 which speaks about the protection of personal data, along with the agency which gave its testimony, with the laws that we have passed in this Croatian House, I do not know whether to once freeze all these laws, publish the register and then return them to office. Is that possible or not possible? And what I would like to emphasise is that the consequences that would be achieved by publication of the register are certainly far-reaching in terms of exactly the manipulation of shares and the purchase of shares. The Register of Names, as well as the address, would certainly allow those who are eager to grab those valuable shares so that they can offer themselves to the home addresses of their offer that they would be, who knows what kind of... and the value and safety to achieve the ultimate goal, which is 7% INE and 7% of HT. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, thank God we have such positive laws that hinder the publication of the register.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5578	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Krešimir Gulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5579	Well, here you go, Mr. Jackie. with you, but I must say, in any case, there were issues of public interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when we talk about the public interest, then I have to say that by contacting the defenders, whose public interest? The public's interest is those who weren't part of this Homeland War, gentlemen. They are now interested, they would now like to publish the register of these our defenders, the same ones who escaped, as I said on the first line up to Munchen or Vienna or Milan, now they would like to be published and thus justify their non-participation in the war of Homeland and the release of the Republic of Croatia, you would now want to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5580	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Dear Representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5581	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Two, three weeks ago, we discussed in this Assembly and accepted the Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The fund that was established 3 years ago has good business results, which means that the Management Fund and the Fund Management Society have done their job properly and well for the Fund. We have now received the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their family with the Final Proposal of the Law. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession to the European Union in 2008, as well as a plan for harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis to which it has committed to bring the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their family into line. Now what I don't think is right. Instead of telling everyone who participated in this demanding job, I would also like to say a sensitive job, we are giving a well-deserved credit for the job and the ministry and the defense associations and the government and all those involved in the job again, some are doing the bear service to the defenders. So, because the problem with the registry is exactly the defence register is the foundation without which the Fund can't function and so this whole job would be questioned. It is certainly not in the interest of Croatian defenders. Just remember the revision of the fake wartime disabled and the hickeys on them, and now by the same pattern, it seems to me first to question the public register and say the same story is reopened again. It used to be an audit of fake disabled people. Now it's an audit of the false defenders. The defenders do the most damage because it is those who fought honorably for this country who feel like they are under eternal investigation. What I keep important, which is now forgotten in these discussions. The register itself doesn't have to mean anything when it comes to shares and shares, because it's the criteria that exactly value who gets how many shares and shares to participate in the Homeland War. I would like to point out here in particular that it is precisely the setting of criteria with the creation and establishment of a register that is most demanding and seems to me to be the best part of the work that the working group has proven to be up to such a task. Because even the greatest critics when they met, they admitted that there were no more important grudges. Just some nuances that nothing important could change. And now I don't understand why you're calling the D.A. to publish the register, and you know who's the real data and created the data and delivered it to the D.A.'s Department of Defense. It just put them in the register. Why did the Ministry of Defense never go public with the war route of their troops? Well, I guess because they don't want to break the laws of this country. But of course it's weird and the public is confused. How is it that in one country where transcripts from the Office of Presidents, where the Ministry of Defense, are being dealt with, the Ministry of Defense, is opening up all archives and that, in fact, foreign services are being squandered in these archives. How dare some minister, here's a harmless register to publish in public. So, and just relying on the law. Now I would like to give an example of how other, model democratic states do it with tradition. A few years ago, there was a deadline for protecting archive buildings from World War II in the UK. And the archive was supposed to be available to the public. The English opened the archives and studied the structure. They estimated when the archives came to the public to damage the interests and reputation of the UK. You know what they did? They have extended for the next 20 years access to the archive and to that structure that would damage the interests of Great Britain. That's how serious countries do it, and how we behave. So, in that sense, I want to point out. Imagine that now the Canadian battalion that was there and invented some battle with the Croats who broke into the public and imagine now that this Canadian battalion is going to be released, let even the defenders who are being manipulated and say change the law and publish it. Well, it's not so easy to change laws that protect state interests. And in the end, I'm going to appeal to all the defenders so they don't sell the shares. This is the survival of this Fund is the future of them and their children. They deserve it, because you need to know that in this country the defenders who are all resented have nothing but the privilege of importing cars. So they all got the disabled, but the real defenders certainly deserve this, and once again I appeal to keep these shares, to keep this Fund safe because it's security and their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5582	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5583	I'll do my dear colleague on Saturday, Nikki Rebbie, so I hope we can communicate a little bit. I don't think the register is harmless. He's a serious thing and it's good that we have him. It is good that the state has certain information on the number of members of the Croatian Army that have passed, especially if they are correct in each respect. What bothers me is what I said earlier, and that so-called. ... You know, of all the countries in the world, there's no... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A defense attorney. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We formed this non-combat sector for reasons to reduce some damage, but then we had to get into that non-combat sector 100,000 people. We know exactly what it was like. If we hadn't had people on Dinara, in Svilai, we couldn't find people who would have covered the space. We couldn't have had shifts, so we know that here's the 7th Guard brigade in just one operation, a dozen dead, because they had a mile and a half of space where the enemy was dragging in and they beat us hard. Well, I just wanted to replicate my colleague Rebic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5584	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5585	Dear fellow, I think it's well-intentioned. I can speak, but problematize what we're getting if we're dealing with so many defense registers. So not all the people in the register are they not getting shares but there are criteria, some won't get anything, but whether they deserve to be in the register and those who were in the village guards with or without hunting rifles, whether they deserved to be in the register and those who kept some important facilities in cities. I think so. So I think they did, but they're going according to their participation, so by the criteria they get so many points, because I'm saying it's all well done and there's no need to create some hack on defenders, fake defenders, because actually all these people need to be proud. Here we were comrades, so down in Dalmatia, and I don't see any reason to trouble it. This register is therefore a dry need for the fund to function and it is necessary to give recognition to both the minister and everyone who has done so, why no one has done this fund so far. Here's the question of all the questions. Who works for defenders, who thinks and who realizes something. So in that sense this doesn't need, it's not a fundamental problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5586	Thank you. We're moving forward with an individual debate. Dear Representative Angelko Mihalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5587	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here's what I'm talking about, because as a Croatian defender and commander in this Homeland War, I think it's a need to say maybe two things about this topic. First of all, I would like to welcome the adoption of this law on the Croatian Defence Fund, which was passed in 2003, and also this timely amendment and addition of this law. My predecessors already talked about how after 12.4. there could have been a situation where many Croatian defenders, and I know from experience, had already contacted me since I was also president of the Association of Volunteers of the Homeland War in Varazdin. I was contacted a year ago by many defenders to sell their stakes so that they might in some ways improve their material existence. And then, although there hasn't been this amendment yet, I was telling them back then, and that's what all of us should be saying, and all of us defenders are involved somewhere in the association, and like the minister said, it means a lot to people to give them real information. I think that after today's debate in Parliament, they will surely listen to our voice which we represent here, and I am glad that there are defenders here on the left and on the right and on the right and that left and right sides we can say, and we all know that well and saved this Croatia. More maybe a little right than left, but that's how it was. So I believe that this fund is run by smart people and this 4 billion kuna portfolio, which is not small, and it's all been told today what this portfolio is for. By selling the shares, and there was now no such change and the addition of the law, there was a danger that precisely those bags that sold companies in 93 years that when these defenders came back from the battlefield had no place to work, here today was supposed to be that this amendment and the addition of the law was not brought, so finally, to buy these shares back from the defenders and then later to step into what parts perhaps with that portfolio. But fortunately, that's not going to happen. And as for this publication of the register. Until three months ago, I'm also special when I followed this situation that there are a lot of fake defenders, that there are false defenders, that there are a lot of them who have manipulated it. Maybe I was about to publish a list of defense attorneys, and that might be okay. But listening to all this, and I may not have seen that sort of thing, I mean, right now I'm against being the Stigmatized defenders. At this point, I'm against publishing to someone of his curiosity the names of the defense attorney. I think it's better to leave our children with funds like this than their names and last names, so some new president will show up today, tomorrow, with complete data on one side of these bags, and on the other hand, some of the future Hague courts will give birth to our names and last names. It was all those who were in the paramilitary units that were also abolized by the Croatian government, all those who had avoided serving their homeland in the 1990s, and many of us may have had reason to continue schooling for these or those reasons either in Germany or for some work, etc. And we all know each other well in local units, and I think those names should be out before the defense names get out. And as for the names of the defenders and these curiositys, look, I know all the associations in Varazdin and the surrounding area, and I know exactly who is involved in these organizations and I know exactly who was in the war. There may be one, two or five cases, but that's no reason to publish this list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5588	Thank you. First we have two incorrect allegations, then two replicas. First the incorrect quotes. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5589	Well, I can't believe 2008 still has colleagues sharing defenders on the right and left.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5590	Excuse me for correcting the incorrect quote. What's the deal?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5591	Well, that's an incorrect quote. A colleague said Croatia was more defending the right from the left. It's an incorrect quote that I'm correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5592	So you have to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5593	Well, I said it. Croatia was defended by defenders regardless of party membership, gender, skin color and faith, and it is the highest value of colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5594	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5595	Vice President of the Parliament, I would have corrected an incorrect assumption. A colleague said to stegmatize the publication of the defence registry. If you're thinking of me, I just want it to be honest, honest, I don't want to go through with it, of course, not the defenders or the register itself. I just think why I say it, I'll repeat why I'm up for that announcement. Because we have 500 thousand defenders, because we have a bad system of points, and now the problems have come from the field. People are asking from the field to publish a defense registry just for these three reasons. 500 thousand defenders, a poor system of points that were made and that went in favor of those who weren't even on the front line of the battlefield and that non-combat sector where we were supposed to transfer 100 grand. Here's what I suggest we do, make it a little bit of re-examination, and...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5596	Thank you. It's no longer a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5597	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5598	Thank you. We have a replica. The first is Honorable Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5599	I'd like to make a new proposal. If we are against the publication of the defence register, I suggest that only the non-combat sector be published, it has obviously grown very badly. Perhaps in this non-combat sector we can find some who were bagging or carrying bags at the time those in the fighting sector were killed on the front line of the battlefield, and then they couldn't go back there. So we simply want to really publish that list so that we can see who defended and repeat ourselves, we pride ourselves on those Croatian defenders. And here someone was talking today about who was involved in the defense. All those who contributed to the defense of the land were involved. Those who produced food for Croatian soldiers also participated. Also involved were those who were repairing weapons or working parts for weapons that the former Yugoslav army had disarmed and carried with them. Unfortunately, most of these people today have neither the status of Croatian defender nor their job because their bags have been taken from their businesses. They took both their status and their business. And it would be a good idea to publish a list of the non-combat sector, so let's see, maybe there's this bagman, the Croatian defender who defended himself on the first line with the bag.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5600	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Angelko Mihalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5601	Well, look at your colleague, combat or non-combat sector, it's hard to tell now. '91. The year that was released was the largest weapons warehouse on the Varazdin Bank of Banscino, I was the commander of the crisis headquarters and I know how many people were involved in it. Today we weren't able to make an accurate list of people so we wouldn't leave anyone out. It's a natural thing to do in such an action, and that was a reminder in '91. In 2008, it's hard to say today how different it could have been then. So it's hard to tell and it's hard to say what was unwary and what was combative. Earlier, a colleague named Bagaric said whether the doctor who operated on the front line of the battlefield, was he in the combat or non-combat sector? I personally think he was very much in the fighting sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5602	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5603	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is when it comes to the publication of a register of defenders of combat and non-combatants, which is of interest to those who were not in the Homeland War and who do not know these defenders. We who were in the Homeland War know very well who the fighting sector was, who was on the front line, who was in the non-combat sector, who was making bread, who was preparing food, who was burying the dead defenders who couldn't be buried on the front line in Pacrac, Lipik, on the other battlefields. They were a non-combat sector. People who weren't in the Homeland War don't even know that Josip Djakic was wounded twice in Pakrac, or that Mr. Mato Biljic was at the Posavina War, or that here my neighbor here was at the Lipika and Pakrac battlefield, they don't know about the defenders, they don't know and try to criminalise the Homeland War all the time. All what's done positively about the Homeland War and the Homeland War, the Ministry of Defense, all this turns into negative connotations. We don't need a defense attorney's list because we know very well who was in the Homeland War, and we also know who escaped from the front line of the battlefield and Pakrac, Lipik, Vukovar, all the other battlefields in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5604	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5605	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor... I will not repeat what my colleagues have said except for some of their views on all this. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Today we heard stories that the Croatian Defence Fund will be shut down, worried, so we heard that it will be after 12, which will be in two months, which will be in 63 days. And look. The fund will certainly stay if the defenders want it. Most defenders will join our opinion and will not take their stakes, but certainly should say and stress that one part of the defender will certainly take the money instead of his shares from the fund. That is why this new law in Article 20, which is amended, provides for the means to buy it all. There were colleagues today who discussed when a decision was to be made to freeze for another year. That would be the biggest defense scam ever. Then they'd tell us why you gave it to us, if you wouldn't let us have it now. Well, we can't, we'd be incorrect if we didn't give our defense counsel a chance that after 12, they could handle their stakes. Of course, we all invite them as their commanders, like their friends, not to take their stakes and sell them unless they have to. But if one of these defenders thinks it's a question of him and his family's existence, of improving the economic situation, then he deserves it. What's important for this fund can be said to be his purpose, that he's the fund, that he did the right thing. He protected in the first part of that stock and from our companies, our essential businesses. If they were then given to defenders at their disposal, let's be sure that they would pass as well as that first wave of shares that were received and were sold at 10, 15% of the real ownership part. What is important today is that it is known that this one share is about 600 kuna, that it will be in 70 days 620, 630 kuna, that our defenders who have received these shares in a fair and bloody way, all of them that they can have, that they can at least cash that share in the way they deserve it. Today, a lot of words were heard to limit, ban, abuse, etc. Well, they're the owners of those stakes, and they need to be given a chance. But they need to be educated, and they need to be asked for the very fund that showed about the scholarship of our students, over the means of one-time cash aid that has been granted to our defenders these two years. Registrar. Yesterday we discussed the Trade Act. I mean, if the register were published, it'd be a remote sale. Let us be assured that at that time, the very bags would work the most and that the addresses of the defender would be either by mail or mail or by phone, mobile networks, so that the daily offers would be made so that those shares would be shared to be sold defensively and that the defenders in most cases would not have peace. The non-combat sector. Dear friends, I was the commander of the Guard Brigade of the man who was on guard on that road with the guard to the commander of the Guard Brigade. So what would a soldier do on the front line if he didn't have nurses, doctors, chefs, bakers, mechanics, etc.? I don't think we should share those defenders. Not everyone was brave or had the opportunity to carry a rifle and fight on the first line of defense, to be a command shot, to be scouts, to be tankers, to be such anti-armists, some had to be logistic, so they had to supply us with logistics. And that's why I don't see any reason why I'm sharing the nurse who was dressing me up, the doctor who operated on me or that ambulance driver who was driving me off the line when I was shot, who was driving me to the hospital, I don't see any reason to publish that part. It should be called this way by all those people who know that someone through some wrong actions and meddling has come to the status of defenders but the defence status doesn't bring him anything because they're not even permanent rights, they're neither pensions, they're not disabled. You know how it's done. But it certainly is necessary to invite all those to report, meaning that they report these people who have come this wicked way to this part so that they all can be protected. And what I also advocated at the first presentation is this article 12 and Article 12a, which reads: "The property of the fund or the documents on the number of shares in the fund as well as the assets arising from the government... the shares including dividends may not be the subject of pledges and executions.". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let us be assured that when our defenders came out the same way when they got the official route from the fund of those forms on which they said they had a score list that they had already bought, thank God with this law they would stay with their empty bags because they would not be able to do so in their pawnshops that there are many in Croatia that are already in large numbers of people who are simply in lack of property and ignorance, who simply sold that part of it means that they will fall into the water. What's important in this part is that we keep the fund, that it's still doing its job, that the government throws another or two weeks into our privatisation, that it's three times seven times seven or seven times seven. And what's important is that people who want to take shares from the fund, and we did that and Article 20 means that we've provided certain funds, which some people want to take, they've earned it fairly, just don't sell them to the bags, let them do it in a fair way, let them do their own payments as much as they are on the market that day. Whether it's 600 or 620, I'd like it to be 700 kuna if our defenders certainly deserved it, so let them take it. I hope with this 15%, we avoid the possibility of getting over 50% out of the fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5606	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is Honorable representative Ante Kotromanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5607	Vice President of the Parliament. I really appreciate my colleague and we've been working very well together, and we've known each other for a long time, so I used the replica as an opportunity to say something. I was talking about anxiety, of course, and we'll agree that the fund is a good thing. The Defence Fund is a good thing and these two decisions, these two amendments and complements are a good thing in order to prevent manipulation and mixing with the Defence Fund. But of course there is a fear, we have to be afraid of what will happen to the fund in a few months, whether it will survive, whether the defenders who, of course, are on them and they will decide whether the fund will survive if they keep the shares of the fund will keep them... But that's a good thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be a shame if this one good and I said a noble thing to shut down and we didn't privatize HEP, we didn't privatize HRT, we didn't privatize water, we didn't privatize forests. And in the end, what will happen to the foundation. These are my concerns that I want to share with my colleague, and I hope that we understand each other in that context, in that sense, that we must do something and do that for me, the future of the fund must survive. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5608	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5609	I certainly appreciate my friend Antu and I know he has good intentions and everything he said today I'm signing except that there are some dishonest actions of people in the government about this fund. ... In the fund. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And in the fund. ... So I appreciate it, and certainly we're in this month twice discussing this fund, the law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And last time we discussed it, we concluded on the board that it was necessary to protect ourselves from that 12.4. That a new law should be made, and the secretary of state accepted it. And here, after about 15 days, he brought us a document that we want to protect. I hope that even in the seventh, sixth, seventh month, if there is a problem that the fund really needs to be shut down, that we will meet again and seek safeguards so that the fund does not shut down, that it remains for the benefit of all the defenders and their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5610	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's a great definition of the country's sociological vitality, so it's roughly like this: "The vitality of the state is measured by the number of people who created it.". We were lucky that many of us were creating this new state, our country, which is now 18 years old. Thus, it measures vitality, ability, active approach. And we can share that period in three periods in 90, 91, 92. The period 91 to 15 January, 92th beginning of recognition of the Republic of Croatia until May 1992, when Croatia became a full member of the United Nations. I am clear as a doctor but the doctor in the brigade and that those who were at war have a lot of my colleagues, today they are not at the gallery, we know what was RP ZNG, the ZNG military unit that later became the Croatian Army, so he participated as a doctor in uniform and helped where I was already. And then clearly in May 1992, I took off and returned to my white, my second uniform, interrupted specialization, was a master of science in front of a doctorate, went back to Rebro to work, help, create the state in some other way. All those involved know that the figure was 150, 170, especially you who were probably left behind in 92, 93, 94, and we who returned to our civilian lives. And because of that number, and because of this definition of vitality, it would be good and it would be done by all the countries of the world, to list those who were defenders in a narrow sense of that word from all those who, I agree there, all those who helped in one way infrastructure, etc. But we're taking a bad example, there's a lot of doctors. Nurses, doctors, regardless of being in uniform like me and my colleague Grubisic or doing their job in the white corner got status. It scares me, I have a fear that says Ante Kotromanovic, or perhaps a better colleague and friend of Mršić, worried that maybe that non-defense sector was bags. Well, okay. Don't put us who were defenders, put those who were in the non-combating sector, put them on, because there are no legal or sublegal reasons... [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, time is up.]] Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5612	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5613	I fully agree with you, early beginning 150 grand but we must consider that in the first two years almost one third of the soldiers were expelled from the machine, kicked out of the machine, which killed, which was wounded. When they were, and then it's normal to have had to be mobilized afterwards because it wasn't the same as being a soldier all the time in New City who was on the first line of defense or, say, in some kind of, here, I'm not going to mention any place, a place that couldn't be reached at all, not even by a rocket of the largest range. When it comes to doctors, I remember a doctor who was in the field named Dr.... Today is the top doctor, the top plastic surgeon who took from me... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and machine-gunned from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the living truth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we also can't say that a nurse in Nova Gradišca who's been in range of 80 or 60 millimeters doesn't need to get defense status. So in these things, it may take longer, but we don't need those people who got their status because they're not in the fighting sector to say that they're far less important than we were in the fighting sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5614	Thank you. And the third replica is the esteemed representative Susana Bilić-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5615	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, allow me, colleagues and colleagues, to make an observation so many times today in this House, a spoken word of fear and fear. All of us, or those who say it, have now forced me to say those words that we all fear as we feared in the 1990s when some fateful decisions were made in this Assembly for the future and for the survival of the Croatian state. Like them, but I think most of us sitting here and on the right side of this Assembly are not afraid for the future of the Fund, as neither I nor my Brodjans were afraid to leave the ship in 92, go to another battlefield and defend the Republic of Croatia where they should have been. We heard today and in the debate that the status of counsel, one distinguished colleague said that the status of defender does not bring anything, thinking it does not bring benefits. But colleagues and colleagues, the status of defenders carries that one honorable, honorable, sense of honor, peace in mind that we know where we are at the fateful time of the creation of the Croatian state we were ourselves. And that's the relationship I invite all of us here to remember where we were and to know at that moment and to talk about Croatian defenders with dignity.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5616	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5617	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So I think it is more and more clear from all these discussions that the common interest is security, stability, quality functioning of the Croatian Defence Fund because it is in the interest of all Croatian defenders, it is in the interest of their families, their children, it is in the interest of the Croatian state. The Croatian Defence Fund has experienced full affirmation, I would say especially in recent years and a significant contribution to its full functionality and quality of work in the interests of all Croatian defenders, their families, their children, is related to the Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund as well as the Croatian Defence Fund. The Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund has scholarshipd, as stated in the Report, over 10,000 people, 10,000 scholarships in schools, colleges, even postgraduate studies, which is an important, valuable project that deserves much more media attention and attention. Last time I said it, I'll do it again this time. I think it makes sense to improve a communication strategy that would promote all values and all the good and successful projects of this Fund. Certainly the quality, long-term and efficiency of the functioning of the Croatian Defence Fund depends on a number of factors, depends primarily on the Fund's Management Fund, the Fund's management company, its wise investment policy, the diversification of investments in order to minimise the risks of such, as the Volitative Capital Market says, the Fund's success depends on the macroeconomic environment, economic growth, the development of the Republic of Croatia, etc. In all this, Croatian defenders play an important and active role. The legal framework that regulates the work of the Croatian Defence Fund is certainly important for its improvement, which is an amendment to this Act, and it is very important for the Croatian Government to contribute this moment at this sensitive moment to ensure that everything that is necessary for this Fund to continue to function in such a turbulent market situation. So much for the Fund. Another thing which is, unfortunately, more attractive in the media and refers to the publication of the register of Croatian defenders, I would also like to say a few words about it very clearly as a Croatian defender, volunteer, member of the ZNG in the summer of 1991. Yes, the defense of the Republic of Croatia, I experienced it as most Croatian defenders as a moral act, as if you want an ethical act, because Croatia was exposed to brutal aggression. It was also an act of national responsibility. It was proud of being a Croatian defender. However, I will make it very clear, after all the numerous abuses of information, information about Croatian defenders, Croatian military operations, various transcripts, my position today is very simple. And clear! My data is my business. And I don't want to experience any more inconveniences where some investigators explore my war routes where I was, what I was doing, if I had been in Drvar and Glamuac and Jajc and Mrkonjic, but many don't understand it, if it hadn't been for the Split Agreement, if it hadn't been for Croatian forces and cooperation with the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army, there wouldn't be Bosnia and Herzegovina, there wouldn't be a Dayton Agreement and many who don't understand these things, today, I would have said comment and they don't know how and what conditions the Republic of Croatia created. Brijuni transcripts are one of the most harsh forms of abuse of information in the Croatian state. I was personally at that first Brijuni meeting, and it is really hard for me today to hear how some unwitting, incompetent abuses, draw out of the context of a single statement, outside of space and time and the moment when key decisions for the independence of the Croatian state were made. Had it not been for these brave, wise political decisions, dear gentlemen, there would have been no summer of '95, no storms, no Dayton, no Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the question of what the Republic of Croatia would look like. Furthermore, certainly when we talk about the combat and non-combat sectors, we need to be extremely careful. The moment some colleagues spoke, I remembered one operation in 1993 in the seventh month, the fifth Guard brigade, and young nurses. That night or that night, we made some arrangements. The second morning they were killed. Thus, many people in different places had great responsibility, great importance and contribution to the strength of the Croatian Army and its effectiveness. I'm not going to comment here, but I need to be extremely careful and extremely restrained and I'm going to say it again very clearly. The publication of the register under normal circumstances. We certainly can't publish information unless certain laws allow it. But the publication of information in the political climate where many information is being misused, falsely interpreted is not in the interest of Croatian defenders, and certainly when the necessary political conditions are obtained, all information will be published. But for that we need to do everything we need to do to get the information that has so far been unproceeded, without the law distributed, sent. And I ask you, dear gentlemen, if you know where and who has the information and transcripts of the Yugoslav People's Army General Staff when a criminal enterprise was planned, when a criminal enterprise was launched. And today we've changed the roles, the causes and the consequences. Today, as I have often said in many of my meetings and conversations about the Hague court, that the “storm” is also the subject of debate, but let's start from the beginning. Today, the generals of the Yugoslav People's Army Kadjevic, Adzic and those who launched a criminal enterprise, which led a criminal enterprise not only in the Republic of Croatia, but in Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. They're not part of a criminal enterprise and simply because of the facts because their archives, their transcripts aren't where they're supposed to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5618	Thank you. It's a little late for your line. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at first, I would say that the vast majority of almost all volunteers and defenders went into the defense of the homeland because she considered it her duty and her honor. Neither did they think about privileges, nor do they think about the benefits they should have because they were part of the Homeland War. Here I come from Rijeka, and whenever I have the opportunity to do so proudly, I point out that Rijeka in the entire Homeland War had the biggest response to the mobilization call in the Republic of Croatia. Over 90%. I was a participant of that River of Defense myself. I would not now enter into discussions on the number of defences registered in the register of over 500,000 that I do not consider realistic, nor about a system of points that I do not consider fair because all of this was talked about by my colleague Kotromanovic in his debate. I belong to those who consider it necessary to publish the register, precisely for the opposite reasons that fellow Gulic or colleagues of Rebic spoke about, for those people who were not in the register, who were at the battlefield and to see who were in the register who were never on the battlefield. I wanted to ask Mrs. Kosor a question, and since she's not here, I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State what's going to happen to the defenders who were on the front line of the war, which is why they have their evidence in the military books, and they've never been registered in the defense register, so they never got a notice of the stakes. And there are such. I've got calls these days, and so am I. I didn't get notice that I was enrolled in the defense register, and I spent more than a year on a personal battlefield. It almost seems to me that Agent Cain's proposal is good, of course not for a year. But it might even be best to postpone the sale of the stakes in order to make a quality audit of this register during that period, to reduce the number of false defenders in it. In the register to include all those who have not been unjustly in it yet, because all the real defenders would benefit from that. Their share would be higher if that figure was reduced by some of the 100,000 that shouldn't actually be in that defence registry. The publication of registers and bags, so dear colleagues and colleagues, has a bag, will be, published to me or not by the register. And in the end, allow me just one sentence, prompted by my fellow Djakic's strong reaction as soon as he heard the word "national Liberation War" and "anti-fascists". I would remind you, and I will quote that this Parliament has adopted a Declaration of Antifascism in 2005 that highlights the need for permanent affirmation and the care of anti-fascist values, as well as the protection and preservation of the proceeds of antifascism. The declaration explicitly calls on all state authorities to maintain and improve the anti-fascist fluids, values and commitment of the Croatian society and the Republic of Croatia by means of legal means and activities, and to work to preserve dignity and care for the participants of anti-fascist fighting and monumental heritage as well as the general cultural goods. My colleagues and colleagues, Croatia signed the World Veteran Declaration, Declaration of the World Veteran Federation of Lisbon in 1993, which says that the Republic of Croatia will ensure equal treatment for all freedom and independence fighters of Croatia, and therefore let us not jump to every mention of people who fought for this Croatia in the People's Liberation War as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5620	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5621	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, allow me to correct this incorrect quote that you have now cited by referring to the reaction of my colleague Djakic. I think it's a very important question and someone can go on to him tomorrow, if you've got him wrong, invite him and want to point out in fact that we and we don't have that tradition that you've said nicely that we have and that the Parliament brought here and personally... and one of the representatives that he brought in, so in the last session. So it is incorrect that Djakic responded to the word and to the mention of NOB, really incorrect. But it is true that he corrected a colleague of Cain who said that I think about 14 thousand people from NOB, he said it was 70 and more members of the family, etc. About 170 grand somewhere. So it was just that it was part of the circle of his correction and it didn't even apply to the relationship between the people of... Thank you very much. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5622	The following has been reported by distinguished representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5623	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. We will clearly vote for him and so will I. I didn't mean to answer and talk about this subject, but some previous debates have invited me to say something about this, as I have personally participated in the Homeland War in the National Guard Assembly and what I would like to say is more about what some people are calling on today, and that's the register. Personally, I am against the publication of any registers, because not only am I personally behind the right to my privacy but I know a lot of my friends who do not want their name to be published because they are afraid of something but they want their right to their privacy and what they have achieved only for themselves and I personally do not need any pride of Mršić or I do not know who else is proud to see my name there. I don't need that. We must protect the interests of our country and look up to ourselves as Niko said, to the English. Respected and respected colleagues and colleagues of these days fixation of part of the media, but I see here today and some politicians at all costs being published by the register of Croatian defenders because that way, under the alleged signs, only they knew who was real and who was a false defender. No country in the world has ever been published. And I'm asking myself why some people insist on it. So I would try to ask them something because I personally think that there are more important and more primary publications of some other registers, which are obviously not wanted to talk about. So I'd ask, why don't you publish a register of paedophiles, the kind of person who lives on top of kids in the roughest way. So I'd ask the same question, which is why you wouldn't publish a rape register, so people who abuse and harass either families or others around us in a different way. So I'd ask why you wouldn't publish a driver's register that's drunk every day killing people on the roads, and they're more dangerous than anyone else in these areas. So I would ask the question why not publish the register of the abolized members of the army that destroyed this country, because this public also has the right to know who these abolized persons are and what they have achieved today in the independent Republic of Croatia from newly built houses and not to list any further. And in the end, I would have to say something because my mother would thank me for what I'm about to ask now as a question. Why, clearly, this is all rhetorical, why not publish a register of members of the People's Liberation Fight. Seventy-five thousand of them today, because they're also making some rights come true. So on behalf of my family, I told my mother, I asked them a question, and the public would have to know what my father was doing on the naked island for five years, and who are you today exercising some rights and those people who obviously didn't think like them, ranked differently in an existing system that is no longer my joy. In the end, I'd just like to say one more thing, which is that I personally think that those who force this register are so-called. rights and justice fighters, but I think they have a far darker background and background demands that make them want this than they actually admit it. And in the end, I would tell all the defenders, all my friends who have defended this country, don't let anyone endanger your right to privacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5624	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5625	First of all, as far as the National Liberation Fight registry is concerned. I'm convinced there's not a single one who would object to the publication of that register. They are proud that they were part of the People's Liberation Fight and would probably be proud to have their name published in such a register. Secondly, your comparison of this homeland war registrar registry with the pedophile register, with the register of those who abuse families, with the register of those who drunkly trample people on the roads is something so offensive to the defenders, something so offensive that I haven't heard in a very long time. And third thing, it's not about privacy. Whose privacy is threatened by the announcement that he defended his country? And why is his privacy compromised? His defense of the land was public. Public! He didn't do it in secret. So now you've brought a whole series of questions into this debate that actually have nothing to do with each other. This is about trying to prevent the manipulation of those who would want to manipulate because the public suspects that they are a little too many and that is, in the interest of those who were really defenders. It's in their interest. You're saying that behind this request to be published, there are some dark intentions. No, I don't. The dark intention can only be to give someone some kind of privilege he doesn't deserve. It's a dark intention. And this second is the introduction of light into the darkness that you advocate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5626	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5627	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I don't think Mr. Stazic obviously wants to understand what I said, which my intention was in this debate, but he's limited himself to only one segment that I can understand in his presentation, but never approve. And I agree with you that there is nothing against anti-fascism or anti-fascist fighting, clearly under one supplement that only those whose successors are obviously ideological and thus perform. But I would ask the same question to those same participants, and even to you, they might be proud of what they've done. But would you be proud to announce in public what I said they did? Why should we fear the truth in another form in which you do not actually want to hear it? Because I asked you a question. Would one of them explain to this public what these people were doing there? Who set them up? For what? And that's also something the public should know. With respect to what you're saying, Mr. Stazic, which is that without this anti-fascist struggle, Croatia would not be clear today either. If you don't think I don't know it, I'll just tell you that I'm a history teacher. I know more about it than you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5628	Thank you. Replica's respected representative Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5629	Vice President of the Parliament! Hey, buddy, I'm just waiting for this mess to calm down. Here, my colleague was talking and I was distracted by that comparison, but I hope I understand what context it went into. He said no country had published a defense register. I know it's not. But no country has two types of defenders. That's the point, and I'll say a few words about it. We've got a so-called. the non-combat sector. In Croatia, the battle brigade was the largest form of combat formation. And these are all the people that were fighting directly. They're defenders, and they're combat defenders. Within... There were other formations: logistics regiments, logistics bases where doctors and nurses and other people worked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they got defense status. It's okay. ... Of course. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The battlefields go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5630	Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5631	... But what has increased the number of defenders is two decisions of the MUP. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] One is the decision of the MUP, one of the Mornings of '97. A year. Some people here know when it comes to the decision of the Minister of Interior and the MORH, e.g. 18 thousand people got the status of defenders, all those who were authorized. So, all the people who were authorized, and maybe they weren't in the field, they got it. And on the other hand, all public deputies also in the MORH, officials got the status of defenders, so it is, for example, And a hairdresser on Blackie. That's the problem, and we have to transfer these people to what's-his-name. the non-combat sector and we'll be much happier than we are right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5632	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5633	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Kolega Kotromanović is talking about some, that there is no country, clearly there is no country in which there is something only some want to talk about, and apparently some in this discussion today have shown that they are talking about two types of defenders. So you're talking about combat and non-combat troops. There's no such thing for me. No, I don't. Some of you are talking about combat and non-combat. I don't admit it. For me, it was the same in the National Guard Assembly when I went to the Homeland War as the commander himself, and every one who had been there, who had made bread, and who had healed, and who had driven and anything else that he had worked and worked for, so he is a participant to me. On the rest of the gentlemen, don't the Second World War pensions receive, and they, I'm down from Dalmatia, who say that from above from our hills went down to the olive trees to the sea, to the Makarska coast. I think they have pensions today. Therefore, they were granted the status of those who participated in the Homeland War of Fighters. So let's go, let's not share people on, now on, it's so obvious. But what I wanted to say, you don't want to hear it because the truth is actually what I wanted to say at the end, and that is that there are those who actually through this one fixation that they want to express through this relationship, they want to share the defenders and they want to create something quite different assumptions of what's real truth. And the truth we know who we were there.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5634	Thank you. And a replica of the distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5635	Comparing a register where I'm a colleague with a pedophile register and a rapist is simply offensive to me. Scandalous. It's scandalous to compare the defense register with the pedophile and rapist register. I don't know what your intention was, but you obviously have some hidden intentions in doing this kind of comparison at all. I think it was honorable to defend your country, that it was honorable to defend your country in every place one of those who did. And I think it's odd to put yourself in a group, a large group of our citizens who did it, and that while you were in Salzburg, Munich, you might have baked bread in Salzburg or Munich or worked on other things or bagged and destroyed companies where those defenders were before they went to the front. And then when they came back from the front they didn't have those companies anymore. And today some of these bags have more points than those that were on the front while these were collecting shares and doing business conversion. That's why we want to know who honorably defended the country in the fighting and non-combating sector. And the one who didn't do it. We want to know who got that status and doesn't deserve it. And we want to know who didn't get it, and maybe he deserved it. Because this is about bakers and chefs. There's a lot of bakers and chefs who obviously didn't get the status of defenders. Some of them are. Maybe some people would deserve it. And that's what we have to be proud of.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5636	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5637	Here's another sentence if I can just do it. And an invitation to, if someone knows someone who abused it, so they just flossulaed how can we report someone if we don't know who has that status at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5638	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5639	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I don't have a chance right now and I have to answer both of you, so I have to replicate. I can't say the wrong way because you actually said something I didn't say. I didn't compare anyone here with the defenders, I just asked a rhetorical question that you don't really want to understand. You're using the opportunity now to express your position, but it's your right to actually be democratic, you have the right to interpret how it suits you. I'm trying to understand you here. Of course I won't agree with you and that no one who actually tried to listen to what I was saying or hear, and you probably just listened to it a little bit on the side. So it wasn't any comparison, you don't have to say what's not true. Besides, that's what the media is talking about every day. So it's not just my attitude. It's a public opinion. So I'm just talking about something that this public also wants to know and it's not about any comparison. And what you're finally saying is that you want to know, well, dear colleague Mladić, I come from one environment where you come from, and I say I was at the beginning, and I appreciate that you were, and I'm glad that we were defending this country together, but in our midst we know everyone who participated in the Homeland War. But these people don't need anyone to be proud of them, they need enough of what they took part in, they were proud to defend their country. That's what this is about. It's pride to defend your country. I don't need you to be proud of what I was, to see my name there. No one needs that. I want to protect my privacy. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5640	Thank you. Please don't throw it out of the bench. We need to continue the debate. Let me just say two, three words, which is that here today is the debate on the law, that it is set up as an appeal to the defenders to protect itself, that the fund remains, that the fund has that purpose which is given, that it continues to carry it out, so please get a little bit closer to that subject and be more on the subject because it is important to send that positive message. On behalf of the promoter, the State Secretary, the esteemed Mesaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5641	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The esteemed representative Jovanovic asked one question. The question, as you know, is that the register consists of data from both the MUP and the MORH. You're listed in a booklet, a military book, a military ID as it's called your participation in the Homeland War. Based on this data, we've had a few problems regarding the MORH data. New certificates of shares with fixed ones and first-timers go now at the end of the 3rd month from the Property Management Society and I will personally check whether you are on that list. He's got about fifty thousand papers somewhere. As you know, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity in her speech said there are still about 2,000 867 defenders who do not have complete data. And for them too, we have secured some reservations by the average number of shares so that they will also get their share and be able to collect their share from the fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5642	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5643	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Well, here I am actually going to start by saying that I will support the draft law amending the law precisely because it is another in a series of efforts by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to protect the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families, as well as to bring our legislation in line with the acquis of the European Union. A provision in this law which does not allow the assets of the fund to be held by the stock, commission or bankruptcy is a new and lasting value that protects the defenders and members of their families. I am convinced that the amendment of this law as a predecessor to the retention of the share of defenders within the fund is a step that this honorable home will do just as I am convinced that Croatian defenders will make the right decision this time and keep their stakes in the fund and thus contribute to their safety and security of members of their families. But what the ladies and gentlemen that I have to do from one inside is talking to me, and I have to say that it's terribly hard to hear what we actually hear here in the assembly is that we have 5 hundred thousand defenders and that none of us want to remember that at the same time or early in 1992, in Croatia we had just 7 hundred and 50 thousand exiles and refugees, that these same defenders at the same time had the status of Croatian defenders and also the status of exiles and that they were equally members of their families living in exiled settlements, refugee camps, in holiday houses tried to imitate life and in some other location to actually witness what we are witnessing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5644	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will try as much as I can to listen to this advice of yours, given that you have recently said it that I feel a little senseless going back to this whole debate that we have heard here even though I have really prepared my concept in this sense, or that I would, because this debate has debated some of the views here and in some ways I have faced these views. So I will really follow your instructions and very briefly just look back at one thing I don't think I can't look back on. So, since each parliament has a position and opposition other than some parliaments that only had a position once and thank God so there are no more such ones, that is, not this Parliament here anymore. It is logical in Parliament for any of the things when it is said that people represent one and the other opinions, in fact in a certain way they are faced in connection with this, that is, the arguments are presented and they are trying to contribute to the improvement of any of these laws or any of these to the material that I am talking about. Therefore, each, every remark, especially the one that spoke here by a colleague on behalf of the SDP Club, when he spoke about the fast for this Fund, how everything should be done to preserve it, is welcome. So, such suggestions are welcome, of course, not welcome the ones he put out in the part where he said that, I don't know, neither do I, the government seems to have an intention to do this Fund. Here the presence of Mr. Secretary of State and the present presence, almost just before Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, is actually proof that this government and these people here are very serious about this Fund, and that they actually hold it with a single fortune not only when it comes to defenders, but by wealth, I would say at national level. Therefore, I would say that there is actually one thread, one link that connects in a certain way many families and certainly not all of them have to be defenders, but also their family members and will serve them proudly, and we hope for the benefit. It's especially nice to hear that actually one-third of these funds will serve in investments, one-third will be for shares, and one-third, we've heard that they will be used and used to actually scholarship children and actually to educate those who need it most. Therefore, my great and sincere support to this Fund in full confidence that it is indeed, indeed, of national importance and importance at personal level, but I also say at national level. When I was talking about parliaments earlier, I said that I would look back on only one thing and I can't look back on it, so forgive me, because I don't follow this direction of yours, but my debate is exactly in line with what we heard here, because we're talking about a debate. When fellow Matkovic, speaking here, is very inspired and all those who have suffered in the times behind us, will understand and understand it, so regardless of what patience is about, whether someone has suffered from this or that oppressor, it is quite still, however, quite well understood when he said what he said and I will not repeat it. However, it is incomprehensible to use itself in Parliament, I would say abuse, one very honest, one very honest and very human appearance, and to simply turn around, turn to the thesis, and then attack one honest, honest effort and speak honestly about some qualifications that he in fact compared the defenders in some way, not me and specifically when the pedophile was already mentioned. It is simply inadmissible, I do not think it can be so, that no one can make any political points, not in their own or in those he thinks to gain, but simply, in one Parliament, it is incomprehensible and inadmissible and I here and my name and in the name of the other colleagues absolutely reject it. I could tell them when they set things up like this and twist things and make fun of this, then I could ask them if they really weren't colleagues Matkovic in front of such people uninformed. Because you are, since your father was where he was, in fact, the son of a people's enemy for such. Therefore, more people, the sons of the people’s enemies have the right to ask such questions and to have someone explain to them that their father was at some time. So it's simply inadmissible and that, that, we don't ever want it to happen again ever again. I'm closing up. In the words of fellow Caine who said literally this: that there is no State that consistently fulfils obligations towards defenders as the Republic of Croatia. So, that second part of my colleague Cain's presentation we could discuss, but I liked this one, and I think that Cain is right on the right hand when it comes to that finding, I pray, all of us here that indeed when it comes to defenders and all the victims, therefore, not all the defenders were victims and their children to be the priority of this country because they are. So, this Croatia was created thanks to these people and will live in accordance with what counterpart Ostojić said according to the potential that the country created, which is these people. Therefore, once again thanks to my colleague, my colleague, I apologize, Madam Vice-Presidents of the Government of Jadranka Kosor, and here present secretary of state who took this very seriously, took note of the remarks on the issue of objections to the improvement of this Act, directly from the Defence Committee and who contributed to the fact that this Law I believe lives forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5646	Thank you. We have one, one replica, distinguished representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5647	Well, you see, my colleague, you are now wondering why we reacted to the statement of fellow Matkovic, because you say his statement was sincere. That's why I reacted because I think he's completely honest with you about comparing the defense registry with the pedophile register. He said, he said, so if we're going to publish the defense register and then why don't we also publish the pedophile register. Well, that's what the man said. I can't answer for his words, he'd have to know what he's saying in this House, he'd have to know that it could be offensive, I don't know what he meant, it's hard to get into those thoughts. But what he said was said. Therefore, you have nothing to be surprised about!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5648	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5649	I thank Mr. President, so my colleague Stazic, colleague Matkovic, we are really in a ridiculous illusion. That I interpret what my colleague Matkovic said. However, we all know that in this assembly. He called on the Data Protection Act and said we have no right, neither do I, to publish anyone's name if he doesn't want it, etc., just as we can't publish, nor ethically publish the names of patients. And for me, the patient is every pedophile. Therefore, it is inadmissible. Now, just a little bit, therefore, from this context and not from the context of the illustration God preserve. So don't make fun of it, and I'm really talking here to Milanka Opacic, my dear colleague and club president, to take some steps when it comes to the club and not actually allow such insinuations from its club members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5650	No throws, no throws! You'd say thank God you didn't... Let's move on, and last reported today, the distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5651	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, last in this debate which apparently, however discussed has its own replicas, has its own corrections of incorrect allegations etc. It's just that a man can't say anything here about this, about this agenda point, that he obviously doesn't mind someone, that he reacts through a replica, and I trust many viewers in front of our little TV screens. This law of P.Z.E. No. 25 say the letter “E” or “E” means European. I would rather say emergent than European because it is about Croatian defenders, not European defenders, about the Croatian Fund. What? Right? Well, I'm not quite clear that's what it's called. But here I wanted to comment and discuss, because as Mr. Ostojić said himself, I was a doctor in the special police uniform, so I think I have a right. And according to some, my father was an enemy of the state, one friend at a time. So he was in Bleiburg and he was on the Crossroad. Now I don't know how, how to interpret it anymore. But I know. In any case, it is about the Fund which has good intentions, a proposal so that the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, which was founded, which I am just saying in good faith, which has its own foundation that should survive and help children of Croatian defenders. It also expressed its concern and protection to maintain the Fund. About a month ago, this, excuse me, speaker said it would be good for Madam Minister to maybe hold the stands on the ground and warn Croatian defenders of the possibilities and dangers that the Fund would shut down or reduce its potential, because it could have a sudden distribution or sale of shares. I've spoken to a lot of defenders in the field, people who are so involved, and I've come to the realization that maybe it's not a good idea for me to organize some kind of standoff about it. In fact, the vast majority of the people I've talked to already have an intention after 12 April when I stop telling the embargo to sell its share. And for what? I told them it wasn't good. I told them it wasn't good because of the foundation that remains for the scholarship of our defense attorneys' children. People are in a difficult material position. Maybe we don't see it from here. Many of our defenders are out of a job. Many have been trying to make their own business happen through this particular ministry, etc. Many failed, not to say the great majority. If I were to talk about personal examples from my community, I might be some kind of local patriot, so I'd say don't talk about Slavonski Brod all the time and about Slavonia all the time. It is precisely in this debate about this Croatian Defence Fund that it is clearly used for something to say in person, so I would say a little demagogue discussion about the register. And obviously one side is monolithic for, obviously the other side is monolithically against the publication of the register of Croatian defenders. So there are personal attitudes and, personally, I must speak for myself. I don't mind. On the contrary, I am also proud to say that I was part of the Homeland War and that I was in the uniform of the Special Police Department of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that there are certain views and Mr. Mr. Mršić that there have also been these Munich brigades, whether it's Salzburg or whether it seems to me that you've talked about it and that there have been a variety of malversions to say so in this regard. But what's been crystallized out of everything, which is that in some way I would say something that Mr. Bagarić used to say, that there are such Croatian defenders, and then someone mentioned a hairdresser at the Ministry of Defense or I don't know an official at the Ministry of Defense, because she always had a heater behind her back if she was cold, unlike the one in the trench that didn't have a heater, which was a few years on the front line of the battlefield. So it would turn out like this if we had actually been crystallized from this debate even if it could be framed in legal frameworks, that there were really Croatian defenders, some Croatian logistics and Croatian victims. That was in the last debate. So some kind of categorization really exists. And I think we're all obviously together in these 500 000 registered Croatian defenders, so without any sorting. Since this Fund, as I said in the opening statement, has been established with good intentions, since these amendments and additions to the law are also shown concern and protection to preserve the very objective of the existence of this Fund. I will therefore be able to raise my hand for this proposal, and I say maybe some other time or at another session is the time and place to possibly say about this, it seems to be at the end of the eternal topic or the eternal topic of the register of Croatian, or the publication of the register of Croatian defenders. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5652	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Susana Bilic Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5653	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm using this replica to say once again on this subject that I don't think we've sent a good message to the Croatian public today to discuss the Fund here. I believe that the right part of the assembly has done its part of the work and that in the cacophony of sounds and all that has been said today in this Assembly about the Fund and about the register we are not even citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I am afraid so I am using this institute of replicas to call the defenders and call personally because I am also a defender not to sell and... Someone cut me off from my colleagues. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] So, I will repeat this last part to call on the defenders in my personal name, because I am the defender myself not to sell my share in the fund because the Ministry of Defence, Family and Intergenerational Solidarity, as well as the fund with its trusts and other assistance that comes from this contribution, will help those defenders as well as so far who find themselves in a difficult situation and thus help the Croatian Government who wants to enable the duration and existence of this fund, the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5654	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5655	Madam representative, I don't see what your replica consists of, the contents of your replica. I haven't even talked about the message to our defenders, and to say, I've talked to a lot of defenders who are really many in a very invisible material position, and that's what gets them to think very seriously about selling their stakes. In case they possibly point at those who, at first, would, therefore, score materially, financially, and later the fund would weaken, then those I would urge exactly as you said and I would like no one, so I would personally want the same as you to keep that fund strong, if it weakens... and you see me not to sell my share, and those who first sold profited from it.' You understand what this is about? So this material, bad material situation of many defenders is thinking and I say to them that they're sick of it, so they're probably thinking about selling a share in the fund, right? That's what I was gonna say, isn't it, and I wish they wouldn't sell it?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5656	Thank you. And a replica of the distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5657	Here's what I'd use in the end to replicate. Today, everyone was invited to speak on behalf of the defender. We were contacted by a Croatian defender from Vodice and asked a question like this. How is it possible for the Ersta Fund when a single home number is entered to show all information about the Croatian defender including his war route, and we know that Erste Fund is owned by some banks that are foreign property, etc. etc. And here all morning, that is, the beginning of the afternoon we're talking about how secret information is. Obviously, someone not only in Croatia but also outside Croatia has all the information about Croatian defenders, not Croatian defenders, but those who are in the register of Croatian defenders, and today we have concluded that not all Croatian defenders are in the register and that not all those in the register are Croatian defenders. So someone has this data outside of Croatia, and here it is prevented that Croatian citizens know who created it, defended the Croatian state and who now has first shares and other things related to the Croatian Defence Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5658	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5659	Mr. Mršić, I am almost through with this replica of yours, almost entirely consenting. So I don't know why your replica was sent to me, I don't get it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5660	Thank you. The final word of the government representative, the esteemed Krunoslav Mesaric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family Affairs, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5661	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I have to, I didn't mean to conjecture the closing word like this, but now I have to work with my colleague Mršić, actually Parliamentarian Mršić said something here that is obviously not true. First Erste management company, actually the company for the management of the property of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families has as much data as they need to calculate the stakes. This was identified by the inspection agency and the personal data protection agency among other things. Secondly, the data they have, personal numbers, actually the home number of citizens and all other data, address, name and last name, what they need to be able to identify, in accordance with the law, in accordance with the contract on the choice of society, must be kept as a business secret. And thirdly, the Family Ministry, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity and the Property Management Society signed another agreement on the protection of the confidentiality of data. We have said this publicly from the Ministry and it is quite clear that it is transparent, and special care is being taken by the Agency for the Protection of Privacy of Information. Since the publication of a register or not published for us in the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity is respect for or non-compliance with the law. The legal framework as it is, it doesn't allow for the publication of the register. Whoever doesn't trust me, go to the Data Protection Agency's website and you'll get full information about it. So much for the register. It was fully evident from the debate that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs Jadranka Kosor, carried out the project of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, as well as the implementation of the sub-projects, which was the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and their families and members of their families, and the foundation of Croatian defenders achieved full success. All reportedly reported in the debate either through clubs, any individual debates, or in replicas, said they were excellent projects. So in this direction we proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, which is E.U. The law although our defenders are for the simple reason why, by limiting one possibility of buying securities on the world stock exchanges, we wanted to protect as much as possible the Croatian Defence Fund. Since the people sitting on the board of directors are defenders who wanted the valuables to be bought by Croatian and Croatian companies. In fact, the European Union says in accordance with the already read regulation that the conditions of competition on the market must be exactly the same. And she asked that according to that regulation, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity make it equal to the possibility of buying securities both in the country and abroad, and that's what we did in Article 1 of this law. The debate about the law was, I mean, short. You all praised the ministry's efforts to protect the Croatian Defence Fund as strong as possible. And in the end, I think you should say, some esteemed representatives in the Croatian Parliament have said it, but I think you should make explicit statements, invite the defenders not to sell shares, their stakes in the Croatian Defence Fund, not only because then the foundation and the scholarship fund will no longer function in this form as they are now because they will have a smaller flow of dividend money, and it is 127 million in 3 years. So that's one-third of the dividend. It's huge money. I think, one more thing, they, if by the law of the market, will lower the price. They're not gonna get that price they imagined for the individual, for the stakes. The Deputy Prime Minister said they're now 600 kuna. If there is a large quantity on the market, these shares, shares and Tcoma and INA shares will surely suffer a certain decline. The appeals therefore, I think it should be concluded or I suggest that the Parliament, to conclude with the debate, be urged to think carefully about the sale of the defenders' shares, that defenders do not sell their shares, their stakes in the Croatian Defence Fund. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5662	Thank you. I am concluding this heated debate and for the morning session, we will continue with the 4th afternoon, we will vote on this bill when the necessary conditions are met. We'll start at 3:00 with point four. – Final proposal of the Act amending the Insurance Intervention Act with an increased duration. Have a good one!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5663	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The debate is closed. The amendments of the Legislative Committee have been accepted and they have become an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage and vote. Thank you. The result? This bill was passed with 118 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5664	We're going back to work. Fourth item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Insurance Interval Act with an increased duration, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 26 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tamara Obradović Mazal State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5665	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is a very short draft of a law that we propose to amend the Insurance Interval Act with an increased duration which is also the result of the Government's HITROReza Special Unit, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has set up to contribute to reducing administrative burdens, deregulation of certain aspects observed during the duration of the project, and you are faced with one of the results of a project initiated by the Government to reduce the administrative barriers to achieving individual rights as quickly as possible. We are changing the Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration that regulates jobs, regulates the interests on which insurance training is calculated with an increased duration, insurance with an increased duration of people with disabilities, reduces the age limit for the acquisition of age pension rights, which regulates the procedure and keep records of jobs and interests, supervision, financing and criminal provisions. In the implementation of the HItroReza project, therefore a reduction in the reduction of administrations, the special unit for the HITRORez of the Government of the Republic of Croatia carried out the procedure for reviewing normative and administrative obstacles in the current legislation of the Republic of Croatia. After the inventory, following a kind of internal screening carried out, following the analysis of the regulation, it proposed in this segment the erasure of the provision of Article 12(4) of the applicable law, which speaks of the employer's obligation to report monthly to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office on the payment of contributions according to an additional rate with payment data for each insurance undertaking. In accordance with that paragraph, paragraph 3 of Article 13 of the Law, which provides for fines for infringements ranging from 5 thousand to 50 thousand kuna in the course of non-execution of the obligations imposed. After a full analysis of the law, the need to delete Article 12 has been observed. In view of the fact that the Mandatory Insurance Contribution Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2003, fully regulated the issue of compulsory insurance contributions and thus the basis and rate for calculating the additional contribution to pension insurance. In particular, it is necessary to say that under the Data Collection Act, it is the employer's obligation to submit to the Central Insurance Register the RSM Form on which, among other things, the type and the amount of additional contribution collected for pension insurance and the payment control of the additional pension insurance contribution is carried out by the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance. In view of the fact that the provisions of the law under the Implementing Special Unit for the HItroRez of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been assessed as an administrative obstacle in the efficient business of companies. It is foreseen according to the plan to implement the HITROReza recommendations to delete these provisions in the first quarter of 2008. The law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia will comply with the Obligation Insurance Contribution Act, or what will be made possible by employers, is to disburse additional obligations for the unnecessary monthly additional reporting of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute on the executive payment of an additional contribution with payment data for each insurance undertaking. Of course, in accordance with this and the possibility of being prosecuted for failure to comply with that obligation, i.e. We estimate that it will remove both a normative and administrative obstacle in order to ensure a more rational business of companies. We therefore expect the business community to welcome the adoption of the proposed law. On behalf of the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would like to thank you for your attention in this brief further explanation of the final proposal for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5666	Thank you. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and the Committee on Law. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5667	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. Before us is a short law with long-term consequences and comes as one link in a long chain called the reduction of state unnecessary administration, the simplification of business, and thus the achievement of economic impacts. The proposal for a law amending the Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration with a final draft of the law abolishes only one article but behind that abolition stands hugely as the State Secretary said on behalf of the Proposer, a huge breakthrough which should serve as a model I would dare to tell the entire State Administration. So I think this problem deserves a few words, even though the law is very short. This is one of the first consequences of the great action carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is called HITROR-ez. HITR-ES is therefore an action already carried out by many governments in the world with great success, with great courage I would say with much invested energy. We're on our way not so long ago, but here's the first results. So a few words about HeathroRez that we can understand what the size of this short bill is. HITRORez is therefore, established with the aim of rationalising thousands of regulations at national level and the ultimate aim of the whole action is to abolish some law, some sublegal act to be abolished, to simplify, and all together with the aim of fostering entrepreneurship, simplifying administration and achieving overall economic gain. Methodology is very simple, a group of experts working with a number of foreign institutions that we will not list now poses to the state administration first question write me all your legal and sublegal acts. The first question is then asked whether this law or sublaw is necessary, after being in accordance with the law, whether it is favourable for business and whether it is in accordance with the laws and guidelines of the European Union. So the end of the process is to abolish or simplify the law. I'll say a few countries that have had great experiences. Mexico spent several years ago and ended its HITROReza action, of course under a different name, usually called guillotine in the international jargon, Mexico ended its action in a way that ended 46% of all legal and sublegal acts in that country. 46%! After that they say life in Mexico has become easier and cheaper. We have a whole series of other examples, I'd like to mention more Moldova. Moldova examined in its 1130 guillotine action, abolished 503, and simplified 141. Thus, the great results of hyperproduction or simply finding a law that ran over time or was replaced by another regulation or became excessive for any reason. At European Union level, the UK, Austria, Ireland, Croatia, Poland and several other countries are taking this action. The European Union believes that this action can achieve a total savings of 150 billion euros at Europe, the European Union. But our results are really impressive for the current phase of HITROReza. 7 thousand 598 regulations have been reviewed, of which 2688 regulations varying levels directly related to the economy or affecting the economy. The recommendation is to abolish 706 regulations, simplify 865 regulations, and of all economic-related regulations, 28% of them are proposed to be abolished and 27% simplified. These are terrible, frightening figures, when we see how many unnecessary regulations we have, regulations that make it harder and more expensive for the state administration, but this is exactly the main route, one of the most important ways to rationalise the state administration. And to end up with Heathress and move on to this law. Savings in Croatia's administration are expected from about 1 billion kuna annually. One billion kuna, to remind you, is almost 1% of our state budget. I want happiness further to HeathroReza and everyone who will carry out their conclusions after long-term and critical debates, etc., with a warning that there is a need to be careful not to go too far and lift something that is important. But, of course, those who do that know that. Now, we have before us the abolition of an article, a law that is normally very good law, a law with a social purpose, which is to recognise an internship with a shortened duration for certain groups of people, for people who work as insurance workers on particularly difficult and health-hazarding jobs, for people who work on those jobs whose nature and weight is such that after a certain number of work done, they can no longer do that job, because simply the organism cannot withstand such efforts. Then for certain categories of disabled persons, etc. And this positive law has an article 12 that determines what kind of records must be kept. And that's exactly where I would say the goal of the entire HItroReza action, and also these actions of the Resord Ministry, in which the abolition of an article actually abolished the vast administration, tens and tens of thousands of forms. Because just to remind you, every employer had to give a monthly report on the payment of the contribution rate for people with short-term, for short-term workers, who are people, just to say, for example, are employees in mines, ironworks, steel companies, in the textile industry,... textile products, production of glass, in the sea, shipbuilding, in railways, like engineers, train controllers, then oil production, road traffic and so on, and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So tens and tens of thousands of people, tens and tens of thousands of forms unnecessary every month, tens and tens of thousands of hours lost, spent paper for no purpose whatsoever, because in other parallel regulations these records are already kept and turned. Therefore, by repealing Article 12 of this Act, not only at the beginning of the 4th, as HitroRez said, but at the full article and the first three paragraphs, the Ministry has shown that it has accepted the HItroRes action, that it has even improved the recommendations and has pointed to the path of other parts of the state administration how to rationalise, speed up business and also save billions of kuna annually. That is why I propose that we adopt this Law and congratulate the RES and encourage the HITRORez to take further action in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5668	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5669	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is what the Club President has said, extended perhaps only the most interculturally significant thing that we get from these amendments to the law and is shown at the beginning, however justified or unwarrantedly satisfied with the speed of action of the HItroRez of this Law on Amendments to the Law on the Statutory Insurance Act with enhanced duration, is a fact that speaks in favour of the activities of the Special Unit for the HItroRez Government of the Republic of Croatia which, in the context of reviewing normative and administrative obstacles and the inventory of the review and analysis of the regulations provided to the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship, makes a recommendation to delete the provisions of Article 12. The law on insurance internships with increased duration. I am already in favour of the employer's obligation to report monthly to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for payment of contributions according to an additional rate with payment data for each insurance company. In addition, point 3 of Article 13(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: A law stipulating a fine for violations ranging from 5 to 50 thousand kuna for non-compliance with that obligation. Following a full analysis of the Law on the Statutory of Insurance with an increased duration, the need to delete Article 12 was fully observed. The basic reason is that the Mandatory Insurance Contribution Act, which entered into force in 1.1.2003, fully regulated the issue of compulsory insurance contributions, and thus the basis and rates for calculating the additional contribution to pension insurance based on generational solidarity for the insurance internship with increased duration and additional contribution to pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings for the insurance internship with an increased duration. It follows that this is no longer the matter of the Pension Insurance Act, so the proposed provisions are harmonised by the Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration with the Obligation Insurance Contribution Act. Since the Institute no longer will after these changes, it no longer manages to control the collection of contributions but only introduces records of jobs and insurance records. The employer is exempt from the obligation to submit a monthly report to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. One commendable activity and action of the Special Unit for HItroRez and the Ministry of Economy. We hope that similar activities in the near future will be even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5670	Thank you. Honorable representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5671	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs. So this bill primarily rationalises the collection of data on pension insurance contributions and reduces additional administrations for employers, thus reducing additional costs because unfortunately employers now have to systematise, process and send the same data to three different places. Normally, they have to have different computer programs for that. According to the Pension Insurance Contribution Data Act, the data is required to collect REGOS, while the Obligation Insurance Contribution Act collects and controls the Tax Administration, and the Ministry of Peace was in fact third place where employers had to supply those data to. Otherwise, workers exercise their rights on the basis of a based working relationship in jobs with particularly difficult and health-threatening conditions, while the Tax Administration is the one who has mechanisms and powers for forced collection from employers in the executive procedure. While the Pension Insurance Institute needs to worry about the exercise of pension insurance rights, I repeat the REGOS and the Tax Administration should worry about the collection of public fees financed by these rights. That's why I think this proposed law is significant. Significant for the reason that it will rationalise unnecessary administration of employers, and normally reduce their costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5672	Thank you. Dear representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5673	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With my brief debate, I would really like to support this bill's proposal. If we look at the population they refer to, there are three laws. On the one hand, the Pension Insurance Act through which they exercise their mandatory pension insurance rights under generational solidarity and other legislation – the Insurance Interval Act with increased duration and the Obligation Insurance Contribution Act. According to this Law on the Statutory of Insurance with an increased duration, jobs, occupation, internship, further procedure and keeping records of jobs and occupations with supervision of funding and penalties are also arranged. However, in view of the Law on the Statutory of Insurance with an increased duration and the Law on Contribution to Mandatory Insurance, it has been established in the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance of the Types of Contribution, Payment Bonds, Contribution Payment Bonds, Fundamentals, Methods of Determining Obligations and Payment Times. Therefore, the whole issue of compulsory insurance contributions is regulated, and therefore the basis and rate for calculating the additional contribution to pension insurance. The employer is now, as we have heard, exempt from the obligation of monthly reporting and the Pension Insurance Office on the payment of an additional contribution with payment data for each insurance company, while erasing the possibility of being punished. Therefore, it is more rational business and this bill is a confirmation that the state administration must be in the service of citizens and their service. A legal framework is being created to facilitate... a many formalities and regulations if the results are lifted and it has been shown that we can also talk about economic progress, I believe that there are a number of regulations in our legislation that are unnecessary because of overlapping in other laws of citizens and economic operators in everyday life face many regulations, and the economic growth and competitiveness of Croatia interferes with a complex and really expensive business environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The European Commission came out with a proposal so-called legislative guillotine aimed at reducing the administrative burden of the company by 25% by 2012 by simplifying legislation and eradicating unnecessary laws on the European Union, the European Commission argues can increase economic growth by 1.5% and, as we heard from the president of the savings club, it would be around 150 billion euros. If this were to be transferred to Croatian, then we have a million kunas. Deleting unnecessary laws is very useful for Croatia. This means less difficulty in adopting European legislation on the way to the European Union. All praises indeed special to the HItroRez as the working body of the Government which has received and the task of reviewing, analysing existing regulations, establishing normative obstacles and proposing simplification and removing unnecessary and excessive regulations. As we have heard, there are indeed many of them, but optimistically, given the results of the countries that have implemented this, we must also support the abolition of these 706 regulations in the Republic of Croatia and the simplification of 865 other regulations. And in the end, I'd just like to mention Prime Minister Sanader's quote. "A simpler, clearer regulation is an important means of fighting bribes, corruption and hunters in the blurry." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5674	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5675	Just for a little while. So HITRORez is no Croatian invention. It is, in fact, the follow-up of European flows to reduce the number of unnecessary regulations within this legislative guillotine and thus the simpler life in the country. The HItroRez itself would not be necessary at all if within the ministries what should actually be the ministry's job were to systematically follow the regulations concerning and the laws concerning the part-cycle and the work of the ministry and then continuously, and not only in the context of such campaign actions, change and throw out and undo those no longer needed. I don't know what the cut is, but if it's not quick, it's not. It's not fast, because this is what I think the second legal proposal we got here on the benches under that HItroReza action. But here I have a proposal for the government. Since this is actually one technical thing, there's not much to debate about, it's so clear that this law is necessary, so it's clear that we're going to support it and so it's clear that it removes an unnecessary administration. But we are witnessing a practice that the Government at a time when the Parliament is not in session is making a regulation with a legal force that then brings to the Parliament's approval. Often it changes more important laws, makes important changes to these regulations, and then we discuss these regulations as a whole by law, not regulation by regulation, but then the conclusion is that the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are based on their powers, yes. So I would suggest that the government at a time when the Parliament doesn't sit down so that they won't be unemployed, that they do this. They clean these laws under the HITRORez and then they send it through the regulations here, because here... There's no point in discussing it. [[You don't understand.]] We'll all be happy to accept that and we'll cut back on time, so we'll do a HlTRORez and in the Assembly so we don't waste our time in the debates on technical laws that can be dealt with by regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5676	Thank you. Does he want to speak to a representative of the government? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the final draft of the law when conditions are put in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5677	Final draft law amending the Insurance Statutory Act with an increase in duration. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. Vote. Thank you. The result? The bill was adopted by a majority of 105 votes for, 1 abstention and 13 against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5678	We move to the 5th item of the agenda, which is - Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Proposer: The Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the proposal for an act has been adopted at the session. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Immigration, the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Emil Tomjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Proposer, on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, let me say this first. I think it is important to highlight two things, first of all, that the position of the promoter is that these proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament should only be governed by provisions which primarily apply to the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, their composition and part-time work. The second thing, therefore, is that other issues contained in different initiatives, which relate to other business institutes, the view is that further consultations and alignments are needed, and primarily in the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and then to the proposals for decisions that will also apply to provisions on parliamentary issues and chapters which of course regulate order at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and, of course, business institutes related to replicas and corrections of incorrect allegations. Furthermore, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, analysing the work and work of individual committees, and as the home working body for the preparation of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, has found that difficulties arise in the work of individual committees that should indeed be addressed. In particular, individual working bodies face problems that we can systematise into three basic groups of issues. So, first, individual working bodies have a very wide range of work, making it difficult for individual issues to properly establish views on certain legal rules. Secondly, individual working bodies deal with issues for several areas that require different approaches in terms of regulating these issues. And thirdly, certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure do not comply with the applicable regulations on the formation of ministries. The following, and by transposing that logic and the position of the proposings in the Rules of Procedure, this proposal separates the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction in this regard, and I will use that term, to the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. Furthermore, we have a working body, so the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, in which sense the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership is formed on the one hand and the Committee on Health and Social Care. Furthermore, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection under this proposal is hereby formed two committees, which would be the Committee on Spatial Planning and the Committee on Environment Protection and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry in the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. The delegations of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly are also given the status of this draft working body, and it is proposed that the Committee on Immigration be renamed to the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia with appropriate competencies with the possibility of appointment and external members. In addition, the procedure for the appointment of members of the Committee in the order of public scientific and professional staff of the so-called so-called Public Scientific and Professional Staff shall be elaborated. or not so-called without it, therefore, outside members of the board. The process itself begins to publish a public call to propose candidates in which the deadline is set, and candidates can therefore also propose professional institutions and professional associations and civil society associations and individuals. Since the creation of this proposal, of course, the debate has been carried out on committees interested in having a debate on these business provisions and that a lot of amendments or a lot of amendments have been submitted which should, of course, be shown in an appropriate business manner, with the fact that these amendments are also absolutely acceptable to most of these amendments and can be shown from this place to fix not only in a nomotechnical but also in the substantive sense of the Rules of Procedure as projected by the Proposer, the Constitution Board, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Here's to introduction, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5680	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health? Yeah. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5681	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At its meeting, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health discussed the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. The Committee discussed the proposal as an interested working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. During his presentation, he warned of the existing very broad work of individual committees. Such a situation made it difficult for committees to establish their views under certain legal rules. In doing so, individual working bodies in their own district had more areas that require different approaches. The committee members supported the proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, and decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption of the Decision on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment to Article 76 b is also proposed by members of the committees with a majority vote. The amendment reads that the word "Croatian Medical Chamber" is deleted by "one health union", and instead puts "one member from the Croatian Chamber of Medical Sisters". This amendment aims to include in the external members the largest chamber covering 50% of the health care workers, they are nurses. So, one Chairman of the Chamber of Nurses would necessarily be an external member and that is our amendment that will be delivered in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5682	Thank you. The Human Rights Committee and the National Minority? No, I don't. The immigration committee? No, I don't. And the War Veterans Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5683	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure which came before the Committee, the parent committee without the votes of opposition proposals, without votes and support of opposition members of that committee, and for the Croatian People's Party club, are not acceptable because we consider it unnecessary. Therefore, we do not feel that these amendments to the Rules of Procedure are necessary, because by increasing the number of working bodies we will not get quality and we do not agree with the claim that the large or wide part-round of a particular working body makes its work difficult. It is the work of the home working bodies that makes it difficult for the parliamentary committees to put forward a proposal, when committee meetings have to convene at 17 p.m. for tomorrow at 8:30 p.m., so that at 11 p.m. at the Plenary session, a debate on a particular item of the agenda could be opened, because proposals for legislative acts and other items of the agenda come at the last minute, but also because of other provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the President or Chairman has broad powers to change the order of the agenda points. And that is why working bodies have been converted into mere giving an opinion without giving quality debates that would last for two, three weeks, and especially those excuses about external members to get at the quality of the debate. According to the current Rules of Procedure, there are 25 working bodies. If I counted correctly, now it would be 31. If we add to this the president or five vice presidents, nine club presidents, each third representative already has the office of officials. I call on the Parliament to make an even smaller effort, another small step, and to establish 153 working bodies, so that every parliamentary representative will be the chairman of one committee and then no longer need to change the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, thank you, fellow Hebrang, for accepting that. It is clear to me that you have a problem in the ruling coalition to fulfill the days of promises. Furthermore, it is not good and not smart to turn the Parliament Rules of Procedure into so-called. The term of office of the Rules of Procedure and that, whenever we change the formation of the Government, we change it to a parliamentary structure. These changes to the Rules of Procedure are nothing more than a consensus with changes, opening, closing, change in the work of a particular minister or ministry. Because if we introduce this practice, then the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure will always have to agree at the moment when the Government changes its laws. And the third reason is that even a minimum of effort and will has not been given and shown that the agreement of the ruling and the opposition achieves maximum consent to what will come before the Parliament. Therefore, there is no indication in the proposed amendments and additions to what is far the most important for us, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must give an indication on the opposition proposal within 30 days, that the working body of the Parliament may and must open the debate whether or not the Government has given its opinion on the opposition proposal, that the opposition proposal cannot be on the agenda for three years without opening the debate, but rather limit the time limit. And that the question of skipping the agenda points is an exception, not a rule, and by clearly prescribed procedure. These are, in our opinion, far more important changes in the Rules of Procedure that were to be made. We find this one unnecessary. And yet I will give one amendment, thus oral in order to improve the quality of work, I will suggest that a provision that was first introduced to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in 1861 is returned to the Rules of Procedure in 1861, which reads: "It is not free to read letters." In 1875, the provision read: "No member of the Parliament is free to read his speech.". In 1905, a small correction was made, and a provision reads: "No member of the Parliament is free to read his speech."and in 1942 the provision reads: "In Article 36(2), no member of the Parliament is free to read his speech.". In 1947, I quoted, so I read, and when it's quoted, a colleague is read. In 1947, for the first time such a provision from the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament was deleted, I believe that by returning such a provision would be obtained at the speed, quality and essence of the work of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5684	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The next registered club is the HDZ Club and the esteemed representative of Mr Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5685	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the sixth amendments to the Rules of Procedure in the last five years, therefore, this is not exactly an extraordinary event, I think it is a common practice in the world as well. The Rules of Procedure shall be amended when there are difficulties in the work of the parliaments in order to remove these difficulties. The proposer received an initiative from the HDZ Representatives' Club just to remove some difficulties in the work, regardless of how the initiative was subsequently interpreted. Our initiative went in two directions. First, to separate certain committees for reasons that I will later state, and secondly, towards correcting some irregularities in the work of this House of Commons. Of these other proposals and this group, we gave up because no consensus has been reached on the working bodies, but we are forwarding therefore, the promoter and the proposer has accepted this first group of proposals that are here, here I now also briefly explain. So the proposal, the essence of the proposal, is to change the structure of three parliamentary working bodies, three parliamentary committees, for three different reasons. For one reason, it is proposed to amend the 2nd committee, and by the other two by one committee, therefore, a total of four committees with three reasons. The first reason why we propose amending the 2nd Committee is too wide a section of the work of a committee, and the section is defined in the Rules of Procedure. A wide section of this means that various experts will meet on the board to discuss the problem too wide, and there is often a circumstance in which under-professional and insufficiently deep into the issue of certain legislative proposals, which, of course, results in insufficient quality conclusions. And otherwise, I think the weight of our debates should be shifted to committees like in most parliaments. The committees are discussed in detail and only general conclusions are given at the plenary session. Due to the extensive work cycle, according to the current Rules of Procedure, we propose to separate the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction into two, as well as the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health in two. Another reason why we suggest that one committee is divided into two different approaches to the problem, this refers to the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection because spatial and environmental protection are often at odds and it is good that these problems are separated separately from two separate groups of experts in order to avoid mutually mixing the problem or the impact of one group on another. Finally, the working body is not in line with the existing law on the establishment of the state administration, this concerns the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, so we suggest that the Committee also be in line with the existing Law on State Administration. So, in conclusion, we suggest the following. Firstly, the Committee on the Economic Development and Reconstruction should be divided into the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. It is perfectly logical that the economy is such a big problem and such a current problem that it deserves to be independent and that development and reconstruction go in other directions and are not closely linked to the first subject. Secondly, to separate the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health into the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and the Committee on Health and Social Care. This explanation also mentioned, I would only point out that labour, labour markets, social problems stemming from pension laws and pension reforms are completely different from health issues and social care issues. On that committee, too, we often waste time unnecessarily in unorthodox discussions because it does not involve experts who are narrow, professional or self-interested. The third is the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, we suggest that it be divided into the Committee on Spatial Planning and the Committee on Environmental Protection with the reasons I have already stated. Third. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to comply with the Law on State Administration, on the establishment of State Administration, on the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, on analogous to the resolution ministries. In addition to this group, the proposal here is also a proposal that the Committee on Immigration be renamed as the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, which will be more words in an individual debate, I believe, but I don't think that the Committee on Immigration really deserves that title anymore, that name was worth the early 1990s when it was very current, today we have much greater status of Croatian national minorities outside the Republic of Croatia or the status of Croatian people as a constituent part of neighbouring countries, or Croatian countries. And I think that this issue is worth a separate committee that will help Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to achieve their rights. The next thing we propose to change, this is the way outside members are elected, we propose that it is no longer done in different ways than it has been in various committees now, rather than in a unique way, which means by public invitation, after which different institutions propose candidates and then there is a choice and a vote on elections in this House of Commons. In the end, we also propose to bring the language standard into line with gender equality principles, and we believe that this sixth amendment of the Rules of Procedure in the last five years, so, since 2000, the last 8 years of 2000, will contribute to the quality of the debate in this High House and the quality of our conclusions, and therefore I suggest that you adopt it as will be done by the Croatian Democratic Community Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5686	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We'll continue the debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5687	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. This Rules of Procedure we have and the vast majority of us here agree is not good. It is not that he does not serve the purpose, not that it cannot be done by it, we do, but it is not good and this Rules of Procedure should certainly be changed. I agree with all those who think this parliament must be far more dynamic. I personally don't mind the fact that on the current morning, a representative and a minister, I don't know a representative, Prime Minister, the vice-president of the government would be evened out in the number of appearances or announcements. It just doesn't bother me, it doesn't even matter to me. The truth is by that people's "Who is stronger than this one?" But the point is something else, and that's how the state budget is voted in this country. That's the point. Somewhere out there, was it 2001, 2002? The 3rd January government changed its rules of procedure, parallel to the Rules of Procedure and the Budget Act, and since then Croatia has adopted the budget you will not believe, you know it, but these people upstairs at the gallery will not believe, with the ordinary majority. It's nowhere on the globe. It is a shame for this parliament, it is a shame for Croatia, it is a shame for the political elite to vote for the Republic of Croatia's budget by the ordinary majority. The Croatian budget with extra budget funds is difficult, don't take my word for it, about 45% of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. The gross social product of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 was 37 billion euros. So, theoretically, this budget of 120 billion kunas can be voted with the hands of 39 MPs. And I'm asking you a question where there is it. In a small municipality not far from Buzet in Lannister, which numbers only 390 inhabitants in order to adopt their budget, they need not an ordinary but a qualified majority. I said that until 2001, that was until 2002. The 3rd January government at the time was aware that most of its tanks Kajin and Kramaric were against it, it decided to go below a democratic standard. At that time, HDZ was fiercely opposed to such a practice, he was helpless, I said, "Who is stronger and pushing!" But by coming to power and in power, for five years now, nothing makes a non-democratic behavior change. HDZ is silent, members of the January 3rd coalition are also silent, the IDS has been in that government for a year and two months. One word, no one's doing anything. It doesn't even occur to anyone that let's say one of these non-democratic provisions changes. Shut up for the first time, and the European Union has a position on everything, which is commenting on everything, which requires us to comply with every law with European Union norms but which requires, for example, to privatise the Uljannik, etc. but it is interesting not to ask for the budget in the Republic of Croatia to be adopted by qualified majority, and I said 120 billion kuna for 2008. And that's something that should certainly change, which for the third time I repeat a non-democratic principle, a non-democracy practice, but apparently no one in this country does, but it doesn't tang in Brussels either. As far as the replicas are concerned, I'm here more than decoded. The replicas within the same club are underestimating this parliament. If anyone in the IDS has something against me, tell me down at the club, tell me at lunch, and vice versa. And I'm going to tell them the same thing either at the club or at lunch, but not here to promote ourselves, self-reclave, or in some other way to waste time on other agents, mostly in the morning while television shows usually go on. The truth is, this institute has abused only one party, and that's what I'm going to say to the SDP gentlemen quite frankly, it's starting to get on everyone's nerves so that the change of rules of procedure in that part wouldn't hate me either. Finally, there will still be the possibility of correcting the wrong assumption but I repeat this provision I think which is proposed, which is said to be imposed among other things because of a practice that is a little disturbing, so to speak, not to say it irritates. Let me get back to this before, to the current in the morning. I would clearly like it to be the last one to ask questions, meaning MPs. This is the parliament, after all. As once said about this or this pay phone above us should be just God. Now we see how the norms are proposed, that this God will be played by him who sits on the other side of Mark's square. And why is that? How long will that take? That's how gentlemen will be until the moment the MPs are elected directly. I am quite openly asking the question by which we MPs are something other than the mayor, mayor or mayor who we have allowed this "privileged" to be directly elected and have direct legitimacy. They choose directly, we enable them, means "pleasant" and we choose from the list. It would also be interesting to see how many MPs would be directly elected. It would be even more interesting to see if such an institute was introduced, which in some ways was directly or indirectly known by most European countries, means that if it were introduced as much as and which would be the representatives sitting in this Parliament. Why do I stand for that principle that HDZ, for example, knew with his laws there in 92 or 95. Here, I came to this parliament for the first time, not from the list, but directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5688	Mr. Representative, this issue of direct election of MPs will not be resolved by the rules of procedure, so go back to those issues that can be resolved by the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5689	Well, I understand that, Mr. Vice President. It's a serious political moment and it's a question that we should open up to everyone's satisfaction not just the one carrying the list. How about that because I am convinced that citizens would expect it from us when we gave this privilege to the mayors and mayors, then we also give that privilege to our representatives. But let's let it go now. For the end. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure are necessary, they are welcome. The intention probably isn't. Equally positive and good, but I think we need the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Why is the intention not good? Because the government's intention is to dominate Parliament, and against it or to do so should in some way be rebelled. So Parliament must not fail to have the government laying down rules or better said that we adopt the rules in the way that someone on the other side of Mark's square expects it. That is why I should be against it, although I would always be willing to vote for the proposed standards if only one norm would return to our Rules of Procedure, which is that we adopt the budget by qualified majority. For the third time, for the fourth time, I warn that how the budget in the Republic of Croatia is adopted by the ordinary majority where 39 MPs can vote the budget of 50% of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia is all but one democratic, correct, fair and above all credible behaviour of a serious Parliament, and I suppose the representatives sitting in this House would certainly like to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5690	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. And the last reported club for discussion is the SDP club. On behalf of the club representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here we have before us these amendments to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and it is important that it is narrower than what was announced, which is good to give up some amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which, for example, concern the representative's morning, the right to ask the prime minister and members of the government. What has been announced to enter these amendments to the Rules of Procedure would be extremely undemocratic, would I dare say even dangerously for parliamentaryism, and we welcome, on the other hand, the fact that it has given up. It is bad, however, that we heard here on behalf of the promoter when it was said that it had given up temporarily, that it had given up for now. So it's bad that such an idea hasn't gone away permanently. However, there are things in this Rules of Procedure that we are currently working on that should be changed because they create difficulties in holding a session. This is, for example, a famous correction to the wrong allegation that is generally misused. As a rule, he is abused, but he is extremely useful to the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, it would be good to have the institution kicked out in the first place, to leave only the possibility for MPs to replicate and to respond to each other's replicas. In this way, we would avoid what happens not often, but as a rule that for such incorrect uses, the plates of correcting the wrong quote are followed immediately by a plaque of calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and always according to the same pattern. Always on the invitation to Article 209. Always the same. So that we don't make our own lives miserable in this work, especially the chairman, most often the president of the Parliament who runs the session. Now, it would be wise to at least make that change that really creates difficulties in the work of the Parliament into this amendment to the Rules of Procedure. Allow me, while I'm at these replicas, to briefly comment on what my colleague Cain was saying about not making sense to replicate or that there's no point in replicating within the same club. Because it was one idea to get into the Rules of Procedure, and that, too, in the name of wisdom and wisdom, gave up, I guess. I hear here on my right from the HDZ lines yelling, getting temporarily given up on a smart idea. I get that. So it's clear that there's no point in replicating within the same club when there are only three members of that club and it's quite clear that they can agree on what they're going to do here. It is clear that there is no point in replicating neither within the same club if the club is large and the party is so undemocratic that it has only one opinion. What the party president thinks is what all club members must think. And then clearly it doesn't make sense or they'll be able to replicate each other. But if we have one party of parliament that is democratic in its internal structure, then we must recognise the right of a representative in such a democratic party to have an opinion and that it does not have to agree with every opinion of its own club members, so that it is natural to replicate it as well. So, on behalf of the party's size and democracy in politics at all. This is the sixth amending Rules of Procedure since 2000. In the five amendments to the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure have indeed been corrected. Some questions were addressed in the Rules of Procedure, which made it difficult for the session to work, and each of these changes was in fact a small step forward, a little progress in developing these rules of the Parliament's work. This sixth change that is now proposed she's a step back, she's a step back. For what? It's not really about anything but to increase the number of committees, so now instead of four so far we're going to divide each as amoeba into two so we're going to have eight. Now. What's the explanation? The explanation reads like this. During the work of the Croatian Parliament, it was noted that individual working bodies had very broad work that included significant areas that made it difficult for the said bodies to adequately establish positions in certain legal regulations. In other words, it's a little simpler. These working bodies or these committees were unable to work as they were too large. They've had difficulties as it says here in the explanation. My colleagues and colleagues, do you remember, that any president of any committee has had any opinion on any law that he may have had difficulties in the work of the board or that he could not master that matter. I don't remember that, but I don't think that's ever happened. This is just a fictional reason. That reason doesn't exist. After all, if he existed, he was real, so he would probably have appeared during the past term at least over the past four years. He hasn't shown up, nor will he appear if we don't change our Rules of Procedure. He's simply a lie. He's made up here. It was necessary to justify why the number of committees was now increased and the truth was not wanted to be written. It is the right of the parliamentary majority to amend the Rules of Procedure, to adapt it to itself, so I hope we do not dispute that. But it is the right of both the democratic public and the general public in Croatia to know the real reasons. So these reasons don't have to be very unserious, even the public don't have to be unacceptable. And the public's reasons are familiar, so it's been written in the papers since the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure. The coalition partners should be satisfied, and HDZ simply does not have enough presidential seats on boards in its quota to feed the hungry mouth of its coalition partners and now has to invent more committees to give these people presidential seats, so that they can have a slightly higher representation salary or the chairman's salary. That's the reason. That's what the whole public knows. I don't mind, maybe the public wouldn't mind you doing it, only you should write it. We don't know how to solve these coalition appetites, so we're introducing more committees to make these people happy and to remain our loyal coalition partners. Otherwise, they're rebelling, we could get out of the coalition, we'd have problems with them, so let's understand, so maybe the public would understand you. In the end, these are human reasons, people want to be board presidents, so let them be, and HDZ doesn't want to pull out of its presidential seats, so it gives way to coalition partners, and then there's a solution. A solution has been found to increase the number of committees. What's the other reason that's listed here? It also says certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure on Labour Authorities are not in line with the applicable regulations of the establishment of the ministries. On the one hand, we have the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and on the other hand we have the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. So that part-round committee doesn't follow the delirious ministries, either, but this hasn't changed. And why is that? Well, because this has already had enough of these presidential seats so we haven't had to get into this yet. On the other hand, we have the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and we have the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction in Parliament, and we do not have a Committee on the Sea at all. Even here, the committee's part-round doesn't follow the departments' section. It is not in line here either, and the reason is that the introduction of this, these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, are for the working bodies to comply with the applicable regulations of the establishment of the ministries. Neither has this been carried out condescendingly nor is that a real reason. Because if it were, then we'd have a formation of the ministry and representatives in the Parliament. Well, if you'd already started for that reason, well, at least you could have done it condescendingly, you'd get a bigger number of boards, but at least you'd be more convincing. And like this, this is completely inconclusive, this is completely incorrect first. I am surprised to the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that he has put this kind of illogicality in general as an explanation because it is clear to the little child, it is clear to the little child that this is incorrect. There's another good provision, it's this public call for outside board members. This could be welcomed if outside board members were elected through this public call, so that at least that's how the initiative takes place and that it is certainly one more democratic and somehow a little more public way than it has been so far, and it is actually the only improvement of this Rules of Procedure in all these amendments and everything else actually represents the satisfaction of the appetite of the coalition partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5692	I thank Mr. Representative. There were three corrections to this exhibition of incorrect allegations. The first amendment has a respected representative, Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5693	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations in the part where Mr. MP said that the replica is mainly used to voice the opposite opinion in clubs that are democratic, etc. I'm correcting an incorrect quote in the part where we're all witnessing that the replica was mostly used to use two minutes of time given by the replica. There was no opposite opinion, though I could say that it was...... No different or otherwise, but I can say that it was mostly a play or as we call a theater. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5694	Thank you very much. The second correction was made by Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5695	My correction, Mr. Vice President, is similar to this correction by Ms. Shuice, and I have to say that I would not want to be Mr. Cain's lawyer because he doesn't need it in view of his performances, but he is here as a witness when I asked in previous discussions and during this session, how this replica on this side he mentioned, each other. We're actually witnessing if you took a phonogram and saw that there's actually no difference or opposite opinion. So it doesn't either, either, but it was actually just an addition to the discussion and only to the promotion and nothing else. In that sense, I wanted to correct Mr. Stazic's allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5696	Thank you very much. And third, the final correction of the incorrect allegations and Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5697	Thank you very much. In a speech of incorrect allegations of fellow Stazic, I am only able to correct three. It is incorrect what he claims, as the party president thinks, and all the other MPs do. We really don't know what the president of our party is thinking right now. So you said incorrectly. He says you've given up on an idea that's not smart. That's not true, that idea is smart. You're wrong. And third and most incorrect. He says you asked for a number of boards, and it's clear to a small child that the reason you cited is not a good work of the Parliament. And why did you fellow Stazic and your party seek the same if it is true, also one new committee, amending you to seek a new defense board. So neither is it wise for you nor do you think as your president, and even less would explain that child.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5698	Thank you very much. Noting that this third was not a clear correction to the incorrect assumption. Okay. Now we're done with the club representatives' presentations and we're starting an individual debate. The first of the five reported for individual debates is the esteemed representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5699	Mr. Vice President, fellow MPs! My parliamentary internship has almost begun but it still seems enough to see how much corruption there is in the work of the Parliament and that certain amendments to the Rules of Procedure are necessary to be as creative and more undertaking as possible. However, in my debate, I will look only at two articles of the amendment and additions. In particular, Article 83, 84 relating to a different definition of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, or to the division of that Committee on Two Committees. I find a lot of arguments for such a single decision to be divided, so I'd start with a single finding of the situation where it's to get out of it the arguments that make it seem that way. In the past term, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has paid great attention to the situation in the area and has shown its concern with a series of amendments and additions to the legislation in force. In order to achieve as much efficiency as possible in protecting space as Croatian valuables, but also as rational as possible, and as much as possible, the government has set up a special advice on the spatial arrangement of the state. The advice was an alternative to a previous advice, different by the number of people set up. However, in this case the number of members was significantly more operational and meaningful. In this regard, I must hope that the Government, with its proposals for amendments to the existing environmental regulations, spatial planning and construction in the Croatian Parliament, has come to an understanding and that provisions have started to move into life that have more significantly into place, while at the same time facilitating the way in which the necessary permits and consent are made easier. The exceptional value of the government's work in the past term is the knowledge that Croatian space cannot be concerned only by one forward ministry, but by the coordination of the entire system of government, for example. As a promoter of amendments and the adoption of new laws with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, the Ministry of Justice also appeared by establishing illegal construction as a criminal offence. In many ways, the Republic of Croatia is recognised in the world as a country that, in order to preserve space at least legislatively, may have gone the farthest from all, especially in this segment of illegal construction. Croatian media recognized this effort, so they offered to contribute as partners to the care of Croatia's space and the fight against abuse in it. This led to the positive synergy of the government, the parliament and the media that sensitized the Croatian public, and thus enabled its engagement in the same direction. In public, special sensitivity has developed in terms of the ecological problem of space not only through a series of interested associations in general for the survival of our planet, but even those at regional and local levels. It could even be said that the ecological component of space relations has reached the dimension of a separate topic whose tentacles extend into all segments of society, not just the authorities. Following this spatial problem has become too extensive for the work of only one committee, so it seems to me that the existing Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection is transforming into two thematically close but contentally possible separate. On a committee dealing mainly with spatial planning and construction and on a committee that would dominantly deal with all environmental issues in space. Of course, the coordination of these two committees would be welcome in the preparation for parliamentary debates, not just in the autonomous presentation of views in this assembly. In this regard, I support the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is divided into two new committees by an additional argument which I think is important. The area of spatial arrangement is complex matter. It covers the definition of the strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia, the spatial arrangement programme of the Republic of Croatia, the construction, adoption and implementation of the document of spatial planning, monitoring of the situation in space, urban cohesion, expropriation, preservation of the construction heritage, etc. However, the area of spatial planning is closely related to the area of construction. It is precisely the importance and complexity of these two areas as well as their strong interaction that requires that the individual working body commit itself to this problem. On the other hand, and the area of environmental protection is undergoing significant reforms in order to preserve and improve the state of the environment and nature in line with the standards and requirements of the European Union, and as a prerequisite for sustainable economic development. The legal acquis of the European Union in the field of environmental protection contains more than 200 main legal acts covering horizontal legislation, water and air quality, waste management, nature protection, industrial pollution control and chemical risk management and genetically modified organisms, noise and forestry. The Environmental Protection Committee will also play an important role in the process of transposing the EU acquis from the field of environmental protection to national legislation. For this reason, I support the split into two parts, stressing that the dominant reason for this is to give a decent or sufficient importance to the problem of ecology in general and not just in space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5700	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The next reported individual debate is distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5701	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs. I, like my predecessor, will look to only one committee that I hold to try to convince you of his need for establishment, and this is the proposed Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, which I hold to be expected in the coming period of significant activities. I will especially single out and highlight the activities related to the area of labour legislation that will take place during this year, and on the basis of the adopted action plan for compliance with national legislation with the acquis in the area of Chapter XIX. - Social policy and employment. Thus, during this year, the amendments or perhaps even the new Labour Act will transpose the provisions of the Directive of the European Community Working Time Directive, the collective surplus of employees, the preservation of employees' rights in the case of the transfer of businesses to business and parts of businesses, the work for a certain period of time, in the field of information and counselling of workers, and then the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment can be expected soon on our benches as soon as the consultations with the social partners are completed and are under way. Furthermore, we are expected to see changes to the law on compulsory insurance contributions, the Law on ensuring the claim of workers in the event of bankruptcy and the harmonisation of the law with the directives of the Council of the European Community in the part of the protection of employees in the event of insolvency of companies, employers. The amendment of the Cooperative Act will clearly define the participation of employees in the management of companies. By the end of the year, national legislation will be harmonised with the European Community Directive on the protection of women with regard to night work, physical hard work underground or water, as well as the application of the principle of equality between men and women in employment, advancement and professional training. Let's add that the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, which I think is one of the following points, is also going to be changed, so this committee is already supposed to be working on that point, meaning the active military personnel, police officers and the authority that already arrived on our benches. As for the social partnership, it is in the Republic of Croatia that I will remind you of the beginning in 1994 when three social partners reached agreement on institutional social dialogue through the Economic Social Council. From 94 to today, the social partnership has been going through various trials and frequent oscillation of partner relations, but the fact is that from year to year there is a visible progress of partnership relations through growing social partners dialogue. The social partnership is a kind of stabiliser of social relations, a model of harmonisation of consultations, exchange of information and opinions between representatives of the government, employers and trade unions on issues of common interest in the field of labour, social, economic and development policy. Although the social partnership has recently reached the highest level of social dialogue and mutual respect for social partners, it must continue to be built up and improved through communication and mutual trust of the social partners, and this proposed Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Council of the Republic of Croatia, which will discuss topics of common interest and common objectives. If I had touched the other areas that were listed and which should be dealt with by this new committee, I would have needed much more time than is allowed by this Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliament. But I believe that from this brief exposure, you could see the need to set up a proposed committee that I believe and justify my existence with my own activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5702	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In response to this presentation, Representative Nenad Stazic reported on the replica of this exhibition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5703	I understand, colleague Kunst, that you are so soulful that this one committee is transformed into two and that we have both the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and, in particular, the Committee on Health and Social Care. It is a little difficult to understand, though, what makes this social partnership different from social care. The social theme will now be on two committees, so far it's been in one so now two committees are actually going to be dealing with the social. I'm surprised by something else. If you believe that work is one area that must indeed have its own special committee why you did not advocate amendments to the Government Act and suggested that both the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship be separated and that work has its own special ministry as it once did because that would be logical. Work and social policy to have a special ministry. Then your debate would be consistent and she would be convincing, and this is how I understand this debate of yours, this pledge of yours to establish this Committee of Labour and Social Partnership under all force, and I can only explain it by one bet I offer, and that is that you will be the chairman of that committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5704	Thank you very much. Representative Boris Kunst reported in response to this replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5705	Thank you very much. But I understand why Agent Stazic doesn't understand it, so I wouldn't look too much at it if I didn't bother the other MPs. Surely the big difference between social care and social policy is that it is quite a big difference, and I believe that fellow Stazic should know that, since he was once his party when she was in power, she was dealing with social policy issues. But I thank him in advance for naming me president of the board. That's what I thank him for. It means that, at the cost of being Mr. Agent, he's a very psychic man. I must say that in one part I should also agree with my colleague Stazic, in the part that perhaps we should seriously think that we really see whether the Ministry of Labour and Social Care should be as a separate institution in this country but I can only speak what is in my domain now and in my domain as a representative of the Parliament is just to discuss amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliament and we are now discussing it. If someone asked me maybe I'd share his opinion and what he suggested, so it doesn't matter whether it's consistent or unconsistent what I'm talking about right now because at this point I'm discussing amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliament. My intimate thinking is that, that work is really a broad area, one demanding area in this country and that it should be earned along with that normal and social policy to have one separate whole but of course will be decided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as an executive authority that in that part exists. But that's why I say colleague Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5706	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5707	Well, I just have to thank him for calling me president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5708	Thank you. Let's move on. Dear Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5709	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Under the current Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia shall be adopted by qualified majority, i.e. Majorization within the Parliament, which I believe would not be directed because Parliament's Rules of Procedure is not for one majority, but for all MPs. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly shall ensure that the Assembly and all MPs are able to carry out their duties and that the Assembly may carry out its tasks as set out in Article 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the representatives referred to in Articles 80 and 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, majorisation in the adoption of the Rules of Procedure is at the heart of the democratic standard, and it is likely that the right of MPs to clearly and loudly be able to make their political views known to the Croatian public. So, the Rules of Procedure must disable the Majorisation of the Parliament regardless of who is in power and who is in opposition. What is proposed here? Others have already spoken, but it doesn't bother to do it again. The main point of change and addition is to increase the number of working bodies of the Assembly, so the board, and if we looked at it superficially, they would say these are smart. They're increasing working bodies like they're going to work now. So, of the 25 existing working bodies, we're still building, inventing, designing five working bodies. Since the working bodies have 13 members on average, I will speak to 13 members and 30 working bodies, so 13 decision-makers, 30 working bodies, that is how many 390 members of the working bodies. And the MPs are 153. If we add that there are outsiders in the working bodies I will again speak on average 7, 8, 9, but we will say that there are 6 averages. 30 working bodies times 6. Calculate what it is to engage outside members. But look at the wonders of what we've gotten ourselves into. The Croatian Parliament adopted a work plan this year to pass 121 legal acts. If we constantly invite these 400 or 500 people to sit in working bodies, and the meaning of the working body is yes, and so says the Rules of Procedure. The working bodies shall report on all elements of the draft law. So they're reporting all the elements. This implies that experts would be theorists, any practitioners who call for meetings of Parliament's working bodies to have a significant impact on the government's proposals. And we know that's not the influence. It cannot be when Parliament has a legislative stampede, so in one year it will pass 121 regulations because the European Union has ordered it, and we have not done as we agreed in the last term. Therefore, there is no real justification nor is this the objective of establishing working bodies to increase the number of external and internal members who will only receive compensation for work and will not work. Because they don't have a time. They don't have time to even read it, and in particular, it can't be arranged that every working body has a quorum and that it systematically works and discusses laws. So the point is played, but it is not the first time since the Croatian Parliament towards Croatian citizens. When it comes to the replica or within the circle, I'm surprised at the representatives who can put such a thing in place as if we're classified representatives of the Torah party or club club. We have been told by the Constitution that we have an obligation to represent citizens of whom we have been given the confidence of our conscience. And there is no other limit in Parliament. So that touched in fact would mean we're coming with a finished opinion. And I'm just asking for the purpose of erasing the correction of an incorrect quote that absolutely confuses the citizens and voters who listen to us. Can't judge a citizen by correcting an incorrect assumption, which is true, which is not. We just devalue ourselves or our own debate, because it's never really a correction to an incorrect assumption. In order to achieve our role, therefore, it should be possible for a representative to replicate to anyone, to state his point of view on the matter under discussion without being told that it is incorrect and that we must remain silent. And the correction of the incorrect quote is just incorrect. So we made up something to confuse the citizens, not to send them messages. That is why I think that this proposal of the Rules of Procedure is, in a certain way, a mistake, a public delusion, and a failure in the Assembly because it will not allow MPs or working bodies to make it easier for citizens, before the Croatian public to stand and defend it in the assembly benches. Of course, I expect that time has changed and that this Rules of Procedure should be adapted to today's time when the parliamentary role should actually strengthen at least to carry out the most significant and legislative one is to oversee the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Let's remember how long it's been for the past few years, at least to get the government's law back on track. What was our role, rather than voting as the machines or obligations of the parliamentary majority all that came as a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, whether we refused the opposition a few months ago. Therefore, parliamentary democracy and parliamentary tasks mean that all options and all MPs can clearly, without a problem state their political position and represent the interests of those who chose them, and this Rules of Procedure does not allow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5710	Thank you. We have one replica, but before that, I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207. Rules of Procedure, time out for application for 10 minutes in 16 hours and 39 minutes. Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5711	I am now forced to replicate to you even though we are operating within the same club, because it would certainly be Damir Cain or someone else from the IDS that they are by chance in the hall. But since they're gone and as long as there's such a practice that when someone says their exposure on behalf of the club goes out and doesn't show up at the assembly anymore, it affirms, a terrible affirmation of the need to keep the replica between the members of the same club so that we can express pluralism of opinion here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5712	Thank you. Replication response, Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5713	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Stazic, I must answer you because there are also no colleagues of Caine. Namely, the Constitution gives us the opportunity to propose laws to the Assembly, each representative has the right to propose, and a colleague, Cain, would take away our replica. And imagine the possibility when a representative can propose to the Parliament without a club to pass the law and defend him to the public. So that's the absurdity that colleague Cain suggested. And fellow Matushic, you would forbid it. The opposition in the hallway, and you bring the law. I know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5714	No throwing from the bench please nice! Let's move on. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would concentrate on that part of the amendments and additions to this Rules of Procedure relating to these two committees, the existing Committee on Immigration and in the proposal proposed by the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, and in some ways point to the need for these amendments and actually welcome that amendment. For what? We therefore have at this time the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and within that Committee have a Subcommittee on Croatian National Minorities. Since the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities applies exclusively to human rights within the Republic of Croatia and national minorities within the Republic of Croatia, so the national minorities of other peoples living here in the Republic of Croatia, then it is a little out of the context that this committee also cares about national minorities, Croatian national minorities in neighbouring European countries. On the other hand, we have a Committee on Immigration which I believe, regardless of which some will probably not agree, but one remnant from one romantic I would say thinking, when it was believed of a large number of return of Croatian people, and less worried about the problems of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. At the time, Croatia was really just created, just created, and probably on the trail of the great support from Croatian emigrants arriving in the Republic of Croatia believed that the return of these people was necessary and I am still standing there and I believe in it, but unfortunately there was no return to such a number as was expected. Therefore, Croatia has been strengthening over time, and many outside the Republic of Croatia, and Croatia's nationalities actually need more Croatian support from here in Croatia and keeping in touch with parts of its people outside the Republic of Croatia than this original plan was. Confirmation here is a small illustration of the fact that this time of Croatian emigration, that is, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and with us here in this assembly, is also the inscription on which it says neatly that this beautiful assembly that we show to everyone is restored by the means of Croatian emigrants. We therefore believe in the Croatian Democratic Community, and therefore I welcome these amendments and additions, that we should unite this subcommittee, shut down to say or rename the Committee on Immigration to a single Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, which would, of course, cover care and care and communication with Croatian national minorities in European countries, with Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a sovereign and constitutive people, but also to Croats, also to Croatians in the world and Croatian emigration. Other parliaments have such committees. When I was preparing for this debate, then I found it and it really made me happy that I found it specifically that Slovenia had an almost identical committee. I don't know if the legislator has thought about it or not, but I have seen that, let's say, Slovenians have "the Commission for Relations with Slovenians in the country and around the world". So for relations with Slovenians abroad and in the world. On the other hand, one more question is raised aside from this particular creation of one committee, and I would say no more to the board than we do on the same number of committees when it comes to the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, because we know that this Committee on Immigration is transforming and actually moving to the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, and that is not how we get the Committee anymore. That's the answer to those who say it's a board more. So he's not a board anymore. Looking at actually and getting ready again to say about this debate then I saw that many other countries, many other nations that have a number of emigrations or parts of their people outside the country of origin, have certain documents, policies, strategies, relations of the country to its countrymen in the world. This Croatia does not have, and that Croatia needs. So specifically, the Slovaks have it, the Czechs have it, the Romanians have it, the Italians have it, the Slovenians have it. Perhaps as an appropriate document to be followed I think that one of the better among these I have seen, what the Russians have, where they actually in one very system are dealing with their people in neighbouring countries and Russians in general in the world when it comes to culture, when it comes to the economy, when it comes to education, education, language, information, etc. All of this Croatia in a certain way and now implements. This is done by Matica Croatia and the Ministry and the Church and the Academy and a number of other institutions in Croatia, but simply there is not one need for a higher level of structure against this problem and in a certain way I would say more and more systematicly focusing the attention of the sovereign state towards parts of its people in the world as wealth, as something that actually strengthens through that part of its people and contacts with other countries in the world etc. Even the European Commission encourages such types of communication through the so-called so-called ‘European Commission’. The Venice commissions that sort of process this matter and talk about it. If we come to an agreement in this assembly, I hope we will, as we have already come to a high level of agreement when it comes to this committee, because I have not noticed by any MPs so far that they look back at this committee and within, therefore, these changes and additions with any consideration. So if we get to that level of consent and bring in this document tomorrow, but at national level, I think it's going to be one big, big shift. I think it is very important that we have entered a larger phase when Croats outside the Republic of Croatia stop being a political issue in this assembly and this is a big moment. I am truly pleased and happy that I have met many present representatives here on the one hand and on the other no matter what foreigners who have told me that the next day in one such committee bearing this name would want to work and work. When I looked at what the Committee of Slovenians was doing, the specific committee I was talking about, so the Committee on Slovenians in neighbouring countries and in the world, he, among other things, oversees the implementation of the so-called "The Slovenians" resolutions to Slovenians in the world. Slovenians have two resolutions. One to which it refers, therefore, to the relationship of the Republic of Slovenia to Slovenians in neighbouring countries, and another to Slovenians in the world, so in terms of emigration in the overseas countries, etc., and there, in detail, they worked out Slovenia's relations with the parts of their people, and in a certain way I would say we confirmed the state. We are a state and we want this communication, we are also responsible for everyone, not only rich or such or such a Slovenian, but tomorrow we Croats, but behind the poor, as we say, Ireland in its strategic document, which deals with this matter and, among other things, addresses the Irish poor in Great Britain if they need to go back to, I don't know, when they're already retired and eventually if they want to die in Ireland. Therefore, they too have an obligation. That's what a modern state should have. I hope that this committee, in its jurisdiction of its affairs, will have in the future, when we bring in one such document, and that I will monitor the implementation of such a document for the benefit of all. Once again, thank you very much for actually supporting the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law in a certain way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5716	Thank you. Honorable representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5717	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I belong to those who don't talk much, and when I speak, I try to say something, and I wouldn't say now if Mr. Hebrang hadn't challenged me. As I tabled the amendment to the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure, I thought it would come to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, he will consciously consider it, he will take a position on it, and we will plead here. However, as Mr Hebrang said that a member of the Advocacy Club submitted the amendment, so he compared it to the fact that it cannot, under quotes, dispute with the same arguments the right of the Proposer to split committees for his own interests, I am obliged to explain it, even if it is in the paper that I signed what I wanted. But I'm still glad that Mr. Hebrang was able to read the amendment, because otherwise the amendments don't exactly read when they're submitted by the opposition, at least not on the benches, in most cases. Let me just start by saying what I think about the role of Parliament, and then the role of committee. So, at least as a party that we have advocated in the election campaign, we have repeatedly stressed that the Parliament is the centre of parliamentary democracy, because the second one we do not know where it would be. But what does that mean? That also implies the active role of the Parliament. But what role? The role that is organized, but organized through the work of the board. What committees? That's another question. I am very sorry that the proposer of this text of the current Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system is not, and particularly through the Presidency of the Parliament, going into the process of harmonising the views between the actors of this parliamentary life in Croatia, so this Parliament, and trying to agree on what changes are needed within the Parliament to make the Parliament more efficient in order to be a stronger expression of democracy. I'm sorry. Since that didn't happen, but there was a proposal that came in this way that came, then, and he's on the agenda then I thought that, what Mr. Stazic was saying on behalf of the SDP club I don't question at all, I don't think I have anything to add to it, but I would now explain why I suggested that the Defence Committee be formed. Within the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, in addition to the sphere of internal policy in the most profound sense of the word, that I am not now talking about what it is, what it says in the Rules of Procedure. So with a large spectrum and a wide range of competences, the area of defence is also. But this is an out-of-date concept that most European countries do not follow, which those who have already passed the transition have entered the European Union, making those who are long ago in the European Union, including the United States outside Europe. The outdated concept is that global processes are not being monitored, as the area of defence separates itself from the area of internal policy in a global sense. But that's in principle, but specifically. So we'll be getting the most likely NATO call in a few days. I'm not going to explain the reason now, but I'm quoting him. Then, this parliament adopted a recent long-term plan for the development of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, which is already to be implemented maximum this year. So I don't know why there wouldn't be a Defence Committee as a special, specialized body in Parliament that will deal specifically with military relations and defence relations at all. Because I said the reasons why I suggested it, so I wouldn't do it anymore. And here I've listed all the countries that have such a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5718	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Neven Mimica, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5719	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is the first debate on the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure, and it also covers a general debate on this subject, so I will talk about it, and I will focus on only three things that are not in this proposal. First, I am sorry that the proposal for this decision did not cover or at least tried to elaborate those issues that have clearly proved problematic in previous parliamentary debates. I primarily think of the question of clearer determination of what it is to correct the incorrect allegations or to abolish the institute, which is a replica, is it to keep it within the framework, the possibility of replication and as a representative in the same club? I think that considering these issues or clarifying these issues and their adequate entry into the Rules of Procedure would, in any case, contribute to the democratisation of the work of our Parliament, contribute to its effectiveness and simply better and faster work in this Parliament. In fact, it is obvious that in the practice so far that, in correcting the incorrect assumption, we have been brought into a situation that a single sample has almost been put in place that, in most cases, if you look at it, if you now go through the transcripts of the tone records of our sessions and the correction of incorrect allegations, you will see that it looks like this. One MP says this government is bad. This immediately raises a tile with a correction of an incorrect quote on the other side of the assembly and a representative on the other side using the institution to correct the wrong quote says, the esteemed representative claimed that this government was bad, and that is not true because this government is good, and that thus evidence is that the pre-existing government was bad. It's about the most common pattern that brings the chairman to a rather invisible situation. What's going on here now? What's this about? Is it a claim that the government is bad, is that an allegation? Is that a fact, is that an opinion, is that a court of law, is that an incorrect assumption, is that a false fact, a false court of law? What can be fixed, don't you think? Article 209 only gives the President the right to assess whether the speaker immediately set out to correct the incorrect assumption or whether he has limited himself to correcting the incorrect assumption and, if he cannot take away his word. Therefore, I do not think that we would be brought into such a situation if, as a whole, this institute were abolished in the Rules of Procedure and that there simply remains an institute of replicas which is an institute that allows for a perfectly appropriate debate both in such issues and in such allegations, claims, facts such as the claim or the fact that the Government is bad. The replica within the club also according to me, at least according to the Rules of Procedure as it should now be or should not even be limited to replicas or replies to a replica between representatives from different clubs, because the replica as defined now in the Rules of Procedure says that the replica is the right of the representative to respond to the statement from the exhibit. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, Not to make his differences, not to make differences compared to what was said by another representative, but to respond to the quote from his presentation. The answer to the statement from the statement in this logic can also be made quite neatly to the exhibition from the private club and to the exhibition from the ranks of other clubs, according to the logic of this Rules of Procedure. The second thing that is not in this decision is about the Committee on European Integration. I have also tabled an amendment proposing that the title, title, name of that committee be changed to the European Union Affairs Committee. The Committee on European Integration was established sometime in 2001 at the moment when we started Stabilisation and Association negotiations with the European Union and it then reflected the situation of things when Croatia was still far from the European Union, when it entered this phase of association, association and when the term of European integration was appropriate to that of our relationship with the European Union at the time. Today, the Republic of Croatia is a candidate country for membership. Croatia is undoubtedly the next 28 members of the European Union and it is necessary to align the name of this committee with the name of such a committee or committee with such a circle not only of course in the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union, but also in the parliaments of the two other candidate countries, in Macedonia and Turkey. In addition, the countries that previously entered the European Union in this previous round, these 12 countries changed the name of that committee in their parliaments with the one around European integrations that were mainly called around them, changed the name to the Committees on EU Affairs or to the Committee on European Affairs, at least a year, and some of them several years before formal membership of the European Union. There is therefore no obstacle to the name of this committee being changed by now. We must not be the least disheartened, the most timid, the most unambitious Parliament among the candidate countries and not express our clear commitment and our clear belief that we will become a member of the European Union very soon and that we are then entitled to call our committee in the Assembly today a Committee on EU Affairs. The more jurisdiction, the more the committee's part-round doesn't change. It shall not be changed or brought into any conflict, there shall be no overlap between the name of that committee with the competences, with the work of the existing National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations with the European Union. This Committee on European Union Affairs, or the current Committee on European Integration, is working to assess the legal coherence of the draft or draft law with the legal acquis of the European Union, to discuss issues that are important for the relations between Croatia and the European Union, to mean topics within the European Union that are reflected in the current and future relationship between Croatia and the European Union and to work on bilateral and multilateral relations, to develop these relations and to cooperate with committees in the parliaments of the Member States, candidate countries and countries in the region. I therefore believe that such a proposal should be taken seriously and thus show seriously how close we are to membership in the European Union. And the third last proposal I would have referred to concerns the fact that in this proposal, the two parliamentary delegations' decision, I say only two parliamentary delegations are transferred from the status of delegation to the status of working bodies, the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and are given the status of the working body. If we accept that the criterion for such classification or such status of these delegations is that it is delegations in really important international organisations, institutions and not some we do not accept that it is a customerelic reason for such a decision, then I do not see any reason why, because of the same importance of international institutions, the status of the working body of the neda and the delegation of the Croatian Assembly in the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE and the delegation of the Croatian Assembly in the Interparliamentary Union. I would also suggest that the promoter take this opportunity seriously, which means that the status of the working body will also be given to these other two delegations of the Croatian Parliament. Here, that's about what I've been meaning to say to these three points that aren't embedded in the motion for a decision today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5720	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I don't agree with my colleague Mimic that there's no reason why the committee would not be renamed to the European Affairs Committee today compared to the previous name. In fact, it is absolutely certain that the scope of the work and the responsibility of the committee is fundamentally changing because the moment we enter the European Union, there will certainly be other jobs before that committee than today at the time of integration, because we are still in the process of integration. So I agree absolutely that you will need to rename it but right now is not the time. The second thing, you yourself know the scope of the work and board members who are in the Council of Europe and those who are NATO. So these are quite a matter of really intensity and action you know what these differences are and there are huge differences between these delegations. And the third thing, you incorrectly set an example when you said that this government was bad that we were saying that this government was good. We were saying that this government was great and that your ex was a disaster. There, that was incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5722	Thank you. We've completed an individual discussion. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5723	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's just a few thoughts, a few sentences after the debate was concluded on behalf of the promoter of course. I would like to point out once again that indeed today or by proposal, this proposal covers only those business issues relating to the working bodies, their structure and their composition. So, I agree to have a debate on other business institutes, both the replica and the correction of the incorrect quote and everyone else, but this proposal is therefore not covered today. Well, in this regard, in the name of the promoter, I can say that when the time comes to open these questions that we will certainly be as the parent working body of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and on this in an adequate way to demonstrate ourselves, and in this professional sense, by working out the institutions of correcting incorrect allegations and replicas, and by regulating, of course, and currently before noon in terms of how to ask parliamentary questions. With this in mind, I would like to point out that when we talk about the working bodies of the Parliament as proposed, and this was indeed read from the vast majority of your discussions, therefore this cannot be a step backwards. This in terms of the work of the Parliament, the preparation of the plenary session and all that the working body of the Assembly therefore should do only to improve and the quality of the debate, the quality of the arguments and I or I do not think that this logical conclusion can be a step back, it can only improve in this respect the work of the Parliament. And the third thing I'd like to say on behalf of the proposer about the amendments. Of course, it is also a business obligation in terms of procedure that all amendments which are under discussion are put on the very proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure that will be discussed, so they will, of course, be made manifest by the Proposer. So as many as I have managed to analyse them, so as a member of the Constitution Committee, there is not that there is, but the vast majority of the amendments are really good, and I assume that they should be discussed, and this is only the assumption that, after a reasoned debate, most of the proposed amendments will therefore be accepted on the parent board. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5724	Thank you. I am concluding a debate on this motion for a decision. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5725	Let's move on. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is over. At the session, you are given a table of review of the amendments to the proposal for a decision. I would ask the representative of the Proposer on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to declare the amendments. Here you go. ... Why unfortunately? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5726	... The high rules of democracy have led me here in the position despite my personal attitude against the concept of amending the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to defend the position of the working body. ... [[Microphones off, you can't hear.]] That's fate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's democracy, I respect it. So, Mr. President, that's what I said unfortunately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5727	First amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5728	The Committee accepted the amendment unanimously and became an integral part of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5729	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Hebrang, president of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5730	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5731	Thank you. Second amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5732	The Committee does not accept a majority of votes of 7 and 1 the abstention of the amendment. So, number two. Do you? First, number two amendments? You have a plate. How am I going to get you now?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5733	Does the proposaler's representative want to comment on the refusal to do so or not? Here you go. Mr. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5734	Excuse me, if it is Amendment number two and these amendments, which are now being made to the Rules of Procedure to request an invitation to tender for outside committee members, and after that, the Committee of Appointers decides, it is not enough, but it is also the tradition of this Assembly to do so, at least in consultation with the committee presidents, and I am surprised that both the opposition and the party in power have voted on this proposal, which has exceeded and what is the tradition of this Parliament and which is going to be done anyway, so it is better to stand there when it is going to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5735	You have in mind the position of the working body, i.e. the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, and there is no change after your argument. ... And no, I would ask you to read me the explanation of yours. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5736	It's not exactly a procedure that can be lifted without a word. But here, I'm putting on this amendment that otherwise the motionor does not accept for, to vote. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to the third amendment, Agent Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5737	The Committee accepts the amendment unanimously, so it becomes an integral part of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5738	Thank you. The amendment has been accepted. Fourth. Representatives Mirela Holly and Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5739	The board did not take a stand because the votes split four for, four against. And the board can't give an explanation because it's a divided position.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5740	Yeah, then we'll have to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5741	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5742	Who is for this amendment to raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The Fifth Amendment of Agent Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5743	Mr. President, this is the same case as the previous amendment. The Committee did not give a position, as the Committee members split up, voted 4 in favour and 4 in favour of such an amendment. I propose that Parliament declare this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5744	Who is for this amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5745	Explanation!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5746	And the explanation! He was neither accepted nor rejected, so I do not know. Go ahead, Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5747	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sorry that the promoter has not shown enough initiative and enough understanding for the role that the Parliament can and must play in the process of Croatia's integration into the European Union. The rejection of this amendment would have missed a real opportunity for the Parliament to give sufficient incentive, motive, encouragement to all those working on this important European project. I call on all MPs and MPs who do not want only Croatia among all candidate countries to have an outdated or inappropriate name of the Committee on European Integration. All those who do not want the Parliament to provide only a declaration and not a competitive support to European Croatia, I call on them all to accept this amendment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5748	Thank you. I understand this is the renaming of an existing committee. Okay. Here, this proposal that the Committee has not spoken for, I put to the vote. Who's in favour of the proposal for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The sixth amendment of Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5749	Mr. President, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, unanimously adopted this amendment by Mr. Boris Šprem, so it becomes an integral part of the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5750	Thank you very much. I see you accept everything from Boris Spremo. Okay. Thank you very much. This is an integral part of the Rules of Procedure, this proposal of the Rules of Procedure. Then we have the 7th Amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5751	Mr President and the 7th and 8th Amendments of the Committee on Law of the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system have been adopted, and both amendments become an integral part of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5752	Thank you. That's what you said. So both amendments were accepted by the Proposer. We won't vote on it. The ninth is the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5753	Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, to Article 9, The board accepted unanimously, so it becomes an integral part.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5754	Thank you very much. 10th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5755	Also, this amendment of the HSLS and HSS Club, the Committee adopted unanimously and became an integral part of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5756	Thank you. Committee on Legislatives, 11th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5757	The Committee has also adopted this amendment unanimously, so it becomes an integral part of the decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5758	Thank you. 12th Amendment of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5759	The Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure did not take a stand because the votes were divided, 4 votes to, 3 votes against, 1 abstention, which is not an exact formulation but let it be. So there's no majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5760	There's not a lot of them. I'm putting on this amendment. Does anyone have any reason for this amendment in particular? There isn't. I'm putting on an amendment. Who's in? Count it because I'm not sure how many votes it voted. Who's against this amendment? The amendment was accepted with how many votes? 78 votes. 13th Amendment, MPs Rajko Ostojic, Miranda Mršić and Zeljko Jovanovic. Miss, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5761	Mr President, the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure did not accept the amendment's proposal, 4 votes were divided by 5 votes against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5762	Thank you. Oh, yes, you do, I'm sorry, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5763	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for not accepting our amendment. In fact, the health union is necessary, not only in its work, but also in the profession of the legal and economic segment of the health system. So I once again urge all MPs and MPs to vote in favour of our amendment and I am convinced that at least the high union leaders will have nothing to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5764	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 14. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5765	The Committee unanimously accepted, the amendment becomes an integral part of the decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5766	Thank you. 15. The War Veterans Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5767	The board didn't accept it, he refused most of the votes. The Committee considers that the issue of external committee members has been regulated by the proposal for a decision in an appropriate manner and has therefore not adopted this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5768	He didn't take it. Do any of the War Veterans Committee want to comment on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5769	And President-in-Office, we won't comment. What are we going to comment on?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5770	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the board has not accepted? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5771	The Committee accepted this amendment by majority vote. It becomes an integral part of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5772	Thank you. 17. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5773	It's also becoming an integral part.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5774	Accepted. Okay. 18th Representatives Slavko Linić, Mirela Holly and Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5775	Unfortunately, the board didn't accept. He refused, he split up, but most of the votes rejected the proposal. The Committee considers that representatives of the Associations of Cities within the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government are properly represented in the working bodies and that they can participate and decide and influence the decision on these issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5776	Does he want a representative? Mr. Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5777	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The amendment is just to give meaning to an association that is growing stronger and more and more professionals who can help cities and municipalities organise their activities every day. The whole new committee that is now proposed, which is the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, will have a truly specific activity, and at the same time it is an activity that cities and municipalities are dealing with, and we believe that from the Parliament's recognition of this association and expectations of this Assembly that this association makes a great contribution to strengthening the potential of cities and municipalities I think it would be through this amendment to allow their representatives because it will be a profession and knowledge also participate in the work of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5778	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19th Amendment of MPs Mirela Holy and Vlatka Podnara. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5779	Mr. President, the committee did not accept the amendment's proposal with a majority of 5 votes against and 3 votes in favour and one vote abstention. The Committee considers that the proposal for a decision of the Part-Circular Committee and the composition of the Environment Protection Committee has been properly arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5780	Thank you. Does Mrs. Holly want it? No, I don't. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5781	Both the 20th and 21st amendments of the Committee on Legislatives have been accepted unanimously, so they become an integral part of the decision of the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5782	Thank you very much. I thank you, Mr. Representative. And now I'm asking you to engage. The vote requires 77 votes at least, therefore, to vote in favour. Come on, come on, come on, come on, You can vote. Here you go. What? So, here's the vote, and we need 77 votes. What? Have you all voted? Thank you very much. We got a tip that one of the MPs didn't vote. Thank you very much. The result? I would like to point out that the draft Rules of Procedure has been adopted by a majority of 77 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 43 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5783	We move to the 6th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 28 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Antun Palaric, State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5784	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, last night until late, we discussed the government's report on the implementation of the law on the right to access information. Today we will talk about the Law on the Protection of Personal Data or a proposal to amend and supplement that law because in the conflict of two large rights that public authorities are working transparently against the right of citizens to have their privacy protected and I think that the Croatian Parliament is with the laws, and the authorities have found the right measure which is in line with European standards. With this bill, which has an E.U. code. The law is fully and fully aligned with the Council Directive of the European Community on the protection of individuals, on the processing of personal data and on the free flow of such data. We built the whole system. The law has been passed. Sublegal acts have been passed. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which works, which reports on its work, has been established, and now this law is finally in a few details that we are in line with this Directive. The first thing we want to solve is for the identification number to be personal data. In fact, we now have a unique home number of citizens. The government is preparing a new identification number that will not be recognizable according to the birth date, according to the sex, by place, but will be automatically determined and will serve for all state records from tax to residence registration to even the voter list. And that number and every other identification number will be personal data and will have to be protected according to this law. Furthermore, this law allows for the possibility to appoint a personal data protection officer by the Head in the bodies that collect and process data... This in practice already works with large companies and this has proved to be good and we predict that it is also introduced into the authorities of the state, or all those who collect data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We further edit the possibility of bringing data out of the country. It's a common case when someone wants to get a job abroad or our companies send workers abroad. Then we're trying to identify all possible cases that are beneficial to a person whose data is out of the country. In order to facilitate small companies or those companies and those legal entities that have appointed a personal data protection person, we foresee the possibility that they are not obliged to send data to the Agency. Therefore, companies that have less than five employees or those companies that have established a system of commissioners will not be obliged to submit such data to the Agency in the future from the entry into force of this law. We also foresee sanctions for the controller of the database if these data are used contrary to this law. We think that with this proposal, amending and supplementing the law when this important area of life is adopted will be fully harmonised with the directive that I have quoted, and in this way we will apply the highest standards of protection of individuals from the body and possible abuses from the bodies that keep the data on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5785	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5786	Thank you. On two occasions, the Secretary of State said that this law was fully in line with the Protection Directive, etc. and I quote your assessment of the state of this PDF File where it says that the Personal Data Protection Act is in line with the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Persons, etc. and largely by Council Directive of the European Community. So, not entirely, but to a large extent.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5787	Okay. Thank you. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5788	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data. In this legislative proposal, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is harmonised with the legislation of the European Union. The purpose of the protection of personal data is to protect private life and other human rights and fundamental freedoms in the collection, processing and use of personal data. The area of protection of personal data in the Republic of Croatia is governed by several laws and several regulations. The Data Protection Act is also in line with the Convention of the Council of Europe on the protection of persons with regard to automated processing of personal data from 1981 and, to a large extent, with the Council Directive of the European Community on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free flow of such data. On the basis of the Personal Data Protection Act, a Personal Data Protection Agency has been established which is responsible for the supervision of the processing of personal data. Although the area of protection of personal data in the Republic of Croatia is largely in line with the legal property of the community during the application of this law, the needs for its additions have been seen. The European Commission's Progress Report 2006 pointed out that, with regard to the protection of personal data, the Republic of Croatia should complete compliance with Directive 95/46. EZ. Significant guidelines for further harmonisation and improvement of the Personal Data Protection Act are also a report by an independent expert hired by the European Commission during a visit to the Republic of Croatia by Dr Thomas Kinsen. In this Report, it states that the Data Protection Act does not contain any provisions on internal data surveillance or provides for any other exceptions to the mandatory supply of data surveillance records and that there is a risk that such content will not in future achieve the purpose for which it is established. The proposal for this law proposes to identify an identification number in the definition of personal data as one of the characteristics on which a person can be identified and which is in line with the definition of personal data in the Directive. Each Member State of the European Union must be fully prepared in four areas before the full implementation of the Schengen Agreement. It is an area of air border, visa area, police cooperation and ultimately protection of personal data. When it comes to the protection of personal data under the Schengen Agreement, the most important is the cross-border transfer of personal data. Therefore, the proposal for this law fully proposes compliance with Article 26 of the Directive as regards the presentation of personal data from the Republic of Croatia. The most common reasons to justify data delivery are the execution of work contracts and other similar contracts which are in the interest of workers which enables the assessment of their working ability and recognition of their capabilities, skills, knowledge for the purpose of improving new employment. This proposal proposes to identify cases where personal data are to be supplied, and this is necessary in the following examples. In order to carry out a contract between the controller of the personal data collection of respondents, for example a contract of work concluded by the worker with the employer. For the purposes of the conclusion or execution of a contract between the personal data collection manager and a third party, which is in the interest of the respondents in this case, it is therefore the interest of the workers. Then for the purpose of protecting important public interest, e.g. international exchange of data between tax, customs and social security services. The data shall be made available in accordance with the rules of law or other law. For example, we have these proposed solutions in the Republic of Slovenia, which also fully implemented the provisions of Article 26 of Directive 95/46 of the EC and thus provided for the way of exceptions that allow the data to be exported from the Republic of Slovenia. The implementation of this law does not require additional financial resources in the state budget. What is changed or added to this bill is the following. The Law on the Protection of Personal Data in Article 2 of paragraph 1 of point 1 below adds the words "especially on the basis of the basis of an identification number or" and then follows the old text: "one or more features specific to its physical, psychological, mental, economic, cultural or social identity". The following point 7 is added: "The Personal Data Protection Officer is a person appointed by the personal data collection manager, who takes care of the legality of the processing of personal data and the exercise of the right to the protection of personal data." Article 7 which speaks of where personal data are to be collected shall also be amended as follows: "The personal data may continue to be collected with the consent of the respondents only for the purpose of which the subject has granted consent or for the purposes of certain laws for the purpose of carrying out legal obligations of the personal data collection manager or for the purpose of completing the contract in which the subject is a party, for the purpose of protecting the life or physical integrity of the subjects or other person, in the case where the subject is physically or legally unable to give his consent or if the processing of the data is necessary in order to fulfil the tasks carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of the public authority of the personal data collection manager or if the subject has published that data." In Article 13, which speaks of when personal data may be presented contained in the personal data collections referred to in paragraph 4, in subparagraph 1:'relations', the words 'only for the purpose for which the subject has given consent' are added. The following subparagraphs shall be added in subparagraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7: "If data delivery is necessary for the execution of a contract between the personal data collection manager and the subjects or the implementation of the pre-contractual measures taken at the request of the respondents. Where data are to be supplied in order to conclude or execute a contract between the personal data collection manager and the third party, which is in the interest of the subject. Either if data are to be presented by law or by law in order to protect important public interest or to establish or protect the claim prescribed by law." Finally, "If data are made out of records which are in accordance with the law or other regulation intended to provide information to the public and to which public and any person who can demonstrate legal interest openly, the data may be presented to the extent to which the conditions for insight in a particular case are met." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. which reads as follows: "The controllers of the personal data collection which employs up to five employees and personal data collection managers who have appointed a personal data protection officer and have informed the Agency of the protection of personal data shall not be obliged to submit, in the central register referred to in Article 16(1) of this Act, the records referred to in Article 14 of this Law for personal data collections, which shall be based on rules in the field of labour law unless the data in the personal data collection are derived from the Republic of Croatia." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 18a is added. which reads: "The controller of the personal data collection may appoint a personal data protection officer. The Personal Data Protection Officer shall take care of the legality of the processing of personal data and the exercise of the right to the protection of personal data, and shall cooperate with the Personal Data Protection Agency in order to monitor the processing of personal data." Finally, in Article 36, which speaks of criminal provisions for those who violate the law and personal data, they shall be given to the application contrary to the provisions of the law, paragraph 1 behind point 1 shall be added to a new point 2 which shall read as follows that the controller of the personal data collection which gives effect to the application of the provisions of Article 11 of this Act shall be fined. Due to all the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports this Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personal Data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5789	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5790	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I am unusually glad that you are chairing this session when I have a personal data protection exhibition, because you are a ram in the horoscope, and I am also a ram in the horoscope, and you have only a few days' birthday before me. Look, I know all this because I know your JMBG. I don't know if I've broken the law by loading JMBG on a computer, but in this room there's at least, now there's no, because the MPs have split up a little bit, but there's at least 20 to 30 people whose JMBGs are available very easily, they just need to be typed in. So, I know JMBG from Mr. Seks, from Mr. Sanader, from Mr. Bebić, yours, but I also know from Mrs. Zgrebec, from Marin Jurjevic, so I know my own because it is in the same place as everyone else, and this place is one minor, low-sighted, party note that has been stored on its websites since 1999 for no reason by JMBG. And that for no reason, I am responsible, because this morning I called the Personal Data Protection Agency and presented the case to them, and they said that there is absolutely no reason for these JMBGs to be where they are. You see, I corrected Mr Palarić's esteemed Secretary of State that this Law on the Protection of Personal Data in accordance with the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to Automatic Data Processing of 1981 and, to a large extent, with the Council Directive of the European Community on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and free flow of such information. So I'm worried about this to a large extent. I would be extremely pleased and happy if it were really what Mr. Palaric said, that it was harmonised completely, but it wasn't. So what's missing in the law? It is missing that component of data protection of digital data, data on the Internet and automated collection and processing of personal data. Not wanting to develop some conspiracy theories now like Frederick Forsett in his "Shackle" and anonymous murderers who steal other people's identities or in a anxious movie where the ravishing Sandra Bullock is completely lost in cyberspace after they stole her identities, the film network, I would still wonder about the state of things in the 21st century and Croatia. There are no data for Croatia how much taxpayers, citizens and state costs for identity theft, such statistics are not available, they are also difficult to make, but one Australia estimated, for example, that stealing her identity costs no more, no less than one billion US dollars in 2001. The question arises whether these daily newspapers, which I mentioned to the personal data protection officer and the personal data collection manager, are taking care of the legality of the processing of personal data, including us MPs, and then other citizens as we exercise the right to the protection of personal data? But stealing identity is something scary. Here was an article yesterday about how in America, cases that the FBI is investigating are emerging to sell other people's houses in a way to steal someone else's identity. They could have perfected this long ago only if they had come to Croatia, because in the last few years we have such cases of land resales, real estate, etc. Recently, "The Morning List" wrote about a case of stealing the identity of a bankruptcy manager who continued to pay off one loan, after the truth God not via the Internet, but rather primitive methods stole identity, forged a personal card, etc., but came to JMBG via the Internet. Therefore, I strongly support that an identification number will be established which will be generated by generating random numbers and will not be able to read certain data visible from JMBG. Today, JMBG is looking for everyone, from banks to registering in certain libraries, etc., and the same JMBG serves as a log and when Internet banking is in leading Croatian banks, and then you have that secret code which, consisting of four digits, is a couple of tens, which thousands of permutations and you can break into someone's bank account nicely on condition that you know JMBG. Data mining is something that is increasingly waiting for us in the future to stand up especially to us as legislators making game rules, making laws. Data mining can also spread to entire nations. For example, I can give you information about Croatian users of social networks such as the face book or my space, which refers to the most vulnerable part of the Croatian population, teenagers, adolescents and younger people. Here's 37% of them are female, so I'm talking about the profile of the Croatian face book. 40% did not indicate political commitment, and of those who are 60%, 14% are liberal, while conservative 1 or just slightly less than 1%. 60%, so the most single is 31%, 17% is in a relationship. All 4% is married. That's what it says about an alliance. The alliance we have to ask ourselves about here. And we have to ask ourselves what kind of data they leave all over the world that they'll probably regret tomorrow because the policy of these social networks is that and when you destroy your profile data becomes available for 6 months or years, for example 10 or more years these jmBGs that squat on the Croatian newspaper server. And to conclude, one of the consequences of this law is, for example, that according to Mrs. Kosor, who, several days ago, passed by HINA, Mrs. Kosor pointed out that the government does not have a single quote: "... there is no reason not to publish the defence register, but to be prevented by several laws, especially the JMBG that amended Racan's Government and the information on the JMBG which is listed in the register and which has been declared a secret...". I'm asking a rhetorical question. When this identification number is introduced, does it actually drop all the reasons for the publication of this defence registry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5791	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Honorable Antun Palaric, State Secretary of the Central Press Office for Management.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5792	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Very short. I thank all those who have supported the adoption of this law and speakers who have warned about the importance of data protection related to the widespread application of information technology in Croatian society as part of it I would say one unique future management space of Europe, and also to the Internet and everything that can be bought and purchased online. In order for caution to be present when data are processed and confidential, we must protect ourselves by persecuting those who take the identity, those who abuse personal data and the system that exists under this law. Therefore, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data cannot assume on itself the powers of the prosecution body. But we can't stop technology and we won't stop it. With some shortages, we all witnessed ATM fraud, shooting, pins and abuses, but that doesn't mean that it's taken so many swings and that doesn't mean that it's going to stop using the ATM. So we'll continue to process the data electronically. We are in the digitization of data far away, only our central state office has a database of 35 million different entries of queens born, married, books of citizens etc., and about 90% is already digitized. And we believe that very quickly, to the end, we will digitize all of this, make available to the authorities, make available to those concerned, and just in order that no more citizens need to bring the certificates from the records, I don't know about enrolment in school, that they won't have to bring the certificates, the birth certificate or the housekeeper, but the school will be able to verify the information it needs with the permission of the parents. So, on the one hand, we want to make the maximum use of electronic technology easier everyday life, but I stress with great caution and with great safeguards against possible abuse. We should insist on strict penalties against those who dare to use personal data, but also seek to ensure that all authorised data holders are networked and used for the purpose of processing these data. I thank all those who support this law and I believe that this is still an important step forward in the protection of personal data in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5793	I thank and conclude the debate. We will vote on the final draft of the law when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5794	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act. The debate is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the SDP Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on the amendments. State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5795	Mr. President, we accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5796	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. And the other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5797	We do not accept the SDP Club's amendment because there is sufficient public interest in the law, and if there is any doubt that the abuse of data and data processing has been committed some criminal offence, a broken constitution or a cover-up of the use of budgetary resources, then one who has such knowledge should submit a criminal application rather than relying on the Personal Data Protection Act. And we don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5798	On behalf of the club Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5799	With this amendment, the SDP Club wanted to define, i.e. to specify what the public interest would mean, and also to enable and specify and specify. Because under the existing law, it is also possible that some information that is classified and would represent personal data could be made public. With this amendment, we are asking, above all, to publish the data when it comes to public interest, and that there is always a public interest where the public authority would deny information or conceal the implementation of the Constitution, international agreements, conventions which the Republic of Croatia is party to or would hide the abuse of budgetary resources. This explanation of the Government's representatives is scandalous, because the explanation that we are, please, which follows in the amendment is the prescribed explanation, the government's explanation from the strategy and the operational plan for the implementation of the strategy, and also, this is literally the last page of the reasoning on access to information. Furthermore, Ms. Kosor, Deputy Prime Minister, has made public several statements that she would publish the defence register but that is to pass the law. We are asking this amendment to make it possible for Mrs. Kosor, because there may be some vigor to draw up this amendment. Well, that's what this would be about, so the SDP club also stands on the trail of a general public mood to explain such data. Government rejection is an example of how the government does one thing, or it says one thing and does the other. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5800	Thank you very much. I put to the vote a proposal for an amendment which is otherwise not accepted by the Government or by the Proposer. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm voting on the final draft of the law, and I'm asking you to get involved and vote. Here you go. You can vote. Thank you. The result? I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour, four abstentions and 39 against, have adopted this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5801	And we move to the 7th item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 29 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Law and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Revered Tamara Obradović Mazal State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5802	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The government is proposing a final draft of the law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees, Police Officers and Authorised Officials. In particular, in the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union and in Chapter 19 of social policy and employment, there was the necessity and need to equalise the conditions for obtaining the right to an age pension and early retirement pension for men and women exercising pension rights under the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, in accordance with Council Directive No 79/7 of the European Community of 19 December 1978 on the gradual application of the principle of equality of men and women in matters of social security. According to Article 7a of the said Directive of the European Union, which is located together with declarations of conformity in the part as an integral part of the material as regards the conditions for obtaining the right to retirement and early retirement, it is possible to prescribe a different age limit for women and men in the national legislation governing the mandatory pension insurance of Generational solidarity as set out in the Pension Insurance Act. However, the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Workers' Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials in a special and favourable way is governed by the exercise of the right of compulsory pension insurance Generational solidarity for these insurance groups, i.e. the value points which determine pensions are determined on the basis of the most favourable consecutive ten calendar years of 1 January 2008 not on the basis of the whole working life as gradually governed by Article 184. Pension Insurance Act. As an example, I would like to cite 2007 towards 34 consecutive years. 2008 by 37 years and 2009 by 40 years. This final proposal will ensure the equal position of women and men in the approach to obtaining age pension rights and early retirement. In addition, there was also the need to comply with legislation governing the security and intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia as well as the position of active military persons in the exercise of their pension insurance rights, and I must note, without changing the conditions for the exercise of rights or their scope. The provisions of the law also comply with the rules on compulsory insurance contributions, which are regulated in a way by the matter of compulsory contributions. Given that I have also mentioned Chapter 19 and that it is a criterion for opening membership negotiations in the European Union, I would point out that this law is also foreseen by an action plan for harmonisation of legislation and the creation of the necessary capacity for the adoption and implementation of the acquis of the European Union adopted by the Government of 30 August 2007. The following action plan envisions the adoption of this law in the first quarter of 2008. Following the short summary of this law, the Proposer proposes equalising the conditions for obtaining the right to retirement, early retirement for women and men, or Croatian legislation, is in line with the European acquis while also carrying out legal technical harmonisation with the rules adopted in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5803	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. And the Committee on European Integration? No, I don't. Okay. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the Boris Kunst club, the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5804	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs. As we have heard of the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees, Police Officers and Authorised Officials has been adopted and has been in force since December 99. This law is in a different way compared to the general regulation of the regulated calculation of the training with an increased duration for the active military personnel or the calculation of the internships carried out in the Homeland War, the setting of pensions in a more favourable way so that the pension after the expiry of the transitional period of the account is increased on the basis of the most favourable 10-year average of salaries achieved and that the personal points increase by 45%. The possibility of retirement has been introduced due to professional inability to work. It is important to note that since 1 January 2008 and beyond when determining pensions, ten calendar years are taken as the most favourable since 1 January 2008. Meanwhile, a law on the security and intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia has been passed, whose members exercise pension rights under this law and yet certain laws and regulations need to be aligned with the provisions of this law. Then, it was necessary to bring our legislation in line with the acquis of the European Union, the Council Directive on the progressive implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women, on matters of social security, when in a more favourable way than the general regulation governing the right to age and early retirement, as is the case with active military personnel, police officers and authorised officials. Therefore, the proposed law aims at equating age conditions and retirement training to acquire age and early retirement rights for women and men. The law proposes to retire for 15 years of retirement and 65 years of life regardless of gender. So far, the years of retirement were the same but it was 15 years old, so far the same 15 years, but they were different conditions for the years of life 65 years for men and 60 for women. For early retirement, the law proposes 35 years of retirement and 60 years of life. So far, the years of life have been the same for 60 years, but the differences in retirement training are 30 years for women. This proposal removes any gender discrimination in the exercise of pension rights. This amendment and the addition of the law bring the provisions of the laws relating to the National Security Office, the 2006 Security Information System Act, as well as the erasure of those provisions governing the payment of additional contributions for persons employed, police officers and other categories of insurance covered by this proposed law. The issue of payment of contributions has been regulated by the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance since 1 January 2003. It is important to note that the proposed amendments and additions do not change the circle of insurance who exercise the right to apply this law or the scope of their rights and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5805	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When I saw the mark on this law P.Z.E. I therefore hoped that we would finally abandon from this law at least one of the three privileges that I personally consider neither necessary nor socially justified in Croatia. But if this is really P.Z.E. I must say, then, that I like this Europe less and less and I am not sure to the end, and this is evident from the reason that the content of the amendments and additions is fully in line with European standards as soon as possible. This law contains three benefits for a specific category of employees in the Republic of Croatia. The first is a well-favoured work experience, and I believe that in terms of content, volume, character and type of work, it is a socially acceptable privilege, that it is justified and necessary. The second benefit is that ten of the most favourable years of retirement are taken as the basis for the pension calculation. And the third benefit is that personal points increase by 45%. I ask the promoters to explain to me what the reasons for the arguments are that what was introduced in '99. It continues to this day and remains in force today, and will even be more clearly regulated as it says, that those who work in the military service, police service and authorised officials, unlike all other employees of the Republic of Croatia who leave for retirement this year, who are being paid back 37 years as the basis for calculating their pension. Why should they base their pension on ten of the most favourable years. Why they need to increase their personal value by 45%. What are those reasons? Insecure service, low wages, messy wages, showing one, and paying other salaries under the table, non-payment of pension and health benefits perhaps. I don't believe any of that exists. And if we have valued and we value that these and such jobs require an unfettered job internship and a permit, and after equating conditions for men and women to retire early because they are years old and may be an obstacle to continuing their service. And working hours and the character of the job is such that it requires it. What are the arguments for these two privileged statuses? As it is possible that more than a million citizens must go and accept the rules under which retirement in this 2008 is based 37 years back, and next year 40 and the whole working life, respectively, which do not increase the value of the points. It's the same thing as math, which is how much the computer calculates. I remind you that according to the current regulations in this country, there are 14, 12 categories. In my opinion, even 14, but in official data 12, which are eligible for retirement, pension conditions and pensions under special conditions. This term, that word special terms can also be translated into privileged conditions. 1998. The Parliament passed laws that began to apply 1.1.99. when it is said that everything in Croatia is subject to a transitional rule from 2009 when the entire working age will be taken as a basis for the calculation of the pension, and the terms of the year of age and internship gradually close from 2007 to 65 and 60, respectively. In September 2007. 51226 users of pensions as a participant of the National Liberation War, 16364 workers' pensions in certain jobs in internal affairs and justice, 23747 pensioners of members of the Croatian Homeland Army since the time of '41. By '45. 5575 former political prisoners, 12602 former JNA members, 157 regular members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, 375 members of the Executive Council of Parliament, the Federal Executive Council and administratively retired public officials of 394 representatives and members of the Croatian Government, 80 pensioners, etc. Federal staff, 266 workers of Istrian coal mines Tupak, 11 thousand 537 pensioners of the Croatian Army and 53 thousand and 8 Croatian defenders. When you add that up, it's 175 thousand 331 pensioners who are eligible for retirement, the conditions for retirement and pension are met under favourable conditions. The average amount of pensions I gave you, each of them by at least 30%, is higher than the average working pension in the Republic of Croatia in September last year. And if in 1993 there was a socially acceptable argument that both parliamentary representatives and members of the government, and in 99, and for members of the military, or internal affairs and authorised officials, therefore intelligence, there are legitimate reasons for such... I ask who are these now 2008. How many exceptions we will continue and have in our legislative framework where we will give privileges that are no longer justified today. The number of beneficiaries of these pensions is increasing year by year. The problem is that the largest number of them were not in line with the principle that the government here insisted on defending them a year ago when it came to Croatian citizens who had exercised their pension rights in Vojvodina and Serbia-BiH, Montenegro and Macedonia, not accepting them in the pension system of the Republic of Croatia, on the grounds that there was only one principle, pensions there and where pension contributions were paid. That rule doesn't apply here. Here it doesn't matter how much the pension contribution is paid but we introduce, or continue and retain three benefits. Meanwhile, we have introduced two other categories of new users, which the Croatian Institute obviously does not have in the report, will be at the end of 2007. These are HVO people with disabilities, if you remember, who were also introduced into the pension system and these are demining workers. When we discussed them, the Parliament was unanimous that it was a profession, a profession for which there are socially acceptable reasons to have benefits for workers working on demining. I read these 12 to you, two new ones were introduced in 2003 and 2004. The 2007 final report will include them, this figure will increase. When we discuss working pensions, harmonisation, additions, then the criterion is there and how much pension contributions are paid. Money to increase pensions is gone, the Swiss formula is working and will be inexorable all the more, but the government has not made an effort to explain in 2008 why all three privileges still have to remain in force. If it's true or the fact that their pensions would be so... If it's small or low, why don't we do it by adding to our pension? [[You don't understand.]] If we solve workers, employees and tenants by adding to a pension that is not the basis of a pension for an increase, why don't we also reduce them to normal pensions with a benefited internship and introduce a pension supplement from 1.1.2009, as of 1999, forgive me. Why should they have special status in that? These are the reasons why the Croatian People's Party Club will not support these amendments and additions to the law, not only that, but every law that remains in force and introduces new privileges for one privileged, unfortunately too large group compared to a million and some users of pensions for ordinary mortals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5807	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5808	Well, the truth is, I'd just like to correct my colleague, Lesar. The addition to pensions in coordination is increased so that it is not regardless of what is not the basis it is increasing, therefore it is not excluded from the increase in regular harmonisation twice a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5809	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MPs, honourable proposings. The Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees, Police Officers and Authorised Officials is a special law of the Pension Insurance System which determines the exercise of the right of general pension insurance in a different, more favourable way for active military personnel. There is no doubt that special regulations should be applied to soldiers, police officers, and others to whom this law applies. I would remind you of the last amendment to this law was in February 2002. These changes, together with the Spectra programme and other measures by the then coalition government, have enabled the successful and painless implementation of defence system reform and the reduction of the number of defence employees without major social earthquakes and unnecessary political tensions, taking account primarily of people and enabling those who can achieve so-called achievement. other careers that all other countries and armies have in NATO countries we seek. The successes of this programme also bear witness to the fact that even the most developed countries in the world are, for example, the most developed countries in the world. Japan was interested in how to implement the Spectra programme. This law, the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees, i.e. its application became current in December 2006, when civil persons who were retired only one day before retirement were admitted to active military service under the Law of Service in the Armed Forces and then retired under this law. In order to be admitted to the service, they needed to have military perspective and to be retired, they needed to be identified as inspective. So it literally happened that civilians became prospective soldiers in the daytime, so I guess at night they became inspective, and then the pensioners became again in the day. So it's been a pretty rough day. Amendments to this law are to the greatest extent nomotechnical in nature other than the equalisation of the conditions for obtaining the right to retirement and early retirement pension for men and women who exercise pension rights under this law. It should be pointed out that this is how to calculate a pension that is more favourable than for other insurance companies, the European Court does not consider it a pension but a salary. However, even this nomotechnic has not been completed, as it has failed to amend, for example, Article 14 of the applicable law, which is called for in some paragraphs of Article 3, and the amendments to the law have been deleted, so that article has only one item, so that should be complemented. According to the law that we are changing today, about 11 and a half thousand people receive, and the average pension is 3 thousand 163 kuna and 70 limes. Since it is the only provision that changes the one that equalises men and women, it should be said that the pension under this law takes 865 women, which makes up about 8%, while men are 92%. It should also be said that out of 11 and a half thousand pensioners 9 thousand, therefore those who are receiving pension under this law, 9,000 make up disability pensions. Any debate on the laws governing the pension system is an opportunity to say once again, it is not a problem as Mr. Lesar said that pension is 3 thousand and 160 kuna, the problem is that the average pension in Croatia is about 997 kuna or around 66 kuna per day. It should also be said that the average pension for February was paid in March, and this should be repeated according to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's data 39.80% of the average salary and should be reminded that at the time of the coalition government it was 45%. If there were 45% left, today every pensioner would have 260 kuna more. It should be said that all SDP proposals to improve pensioners' status in the past term have been rejected, and it should be said that I am not even optimistic that this and the situation of pensioners will also improve in this conference. And when it comes to nomotechnics, it should be said that SDP will not support government policy towards pensioners, I will continue to point to pensioners' problems because everyday survival with 66 kunas a day is not a question of nomotechnics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5811	Thank you. And the last club, in the name of the HDSSB club, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5812	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary at the Ministry. Once upon a time in, since I'm a professional surgeon, at the time of that state because... who is ruling in health care, and somehow not in the full sense of that word, and today, in the professions of a medical, specialist, we had a discussion on the professional council and some kind of working advice on whether to make a distinction in the establishment, one medical hospital, the difference in pay between making categories of personal income between surgeons, so bloody branches, medical professions of those conservative, therefore radical and conservative, so the surgeons, among whom I have shown my own difficulties with adrenaline work, were then joined by gynecologists with similar things, and then the anesthesiologists who run anaesthesia or as they say gas managers, also said that their work was stressful, so one adrenaline, high adrenaline work, were they, and then they were ordered by internalists who were involved in sugar, endocrine, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they said that their work is stressful because they deal with it and we know what they do and sometimes they're in different situations and things like that. And in the end, no decision could be made because everyone is kind of stressful and everyone is exposed to the situations that require there is an increase in the working conditions that we have today actually in our profession. And now that we're discussing this law that has nothing to do with what I was saying earlier, I have to say that we're putting people who are going to retire in an unequal position. I also know personally that the interests involved in this bill clearly states that they also have to say their own recommendations and dangers, everything else, and then there are benefits during their work hours. But putting such people on the line when they retire that they're counting on the top 10 best, most favourable years, and the rest of them leaving everything to be counted on by a 40-year or 37-year average for my opinion is not right. Of course, I'm in favour of the fact that the relationship between men and women's rights in those services is equating, but I'm saying that this isn't, as far as retirement and the calculation of the pension base is concerned, it's not right. Namely, I must remind you as Mr. Lesar did not here say that we, i.e. the Croatian Parliament of Decisions and the Government of Pension Insurance have expelled the disabled from the work of 31.12.'98. years, so I called it retirement... It used to be called retirement insurance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are placed in another category, in another ministry, and in another ministry. I'd say more like social cases and it's really called retirement insurance. No more pension-inhabited insurance or sometimes that community of pension ZM and ORH, right. And one more thing. That same year, on the same date, we really threw out people who didn't work with their own guilt in neighbouring countries where they found work, they didn't know there was going to be a break-up of that state, and they earned their pension there, and they partly kept working here, but they didn't take advantage of it, and they couldn't use their right to retire until 31.12.'98. A year. Such a large number are right in the border areas, in the border areas. So I also spoke to the Committee on Immigrants, such people have a large number where there are a large number of refugees, so there are from Bosnia as there are 20 thousand in Slavonski Brod, in Okucani etc. And they were expelled from the pension insurance of the Republic of Croatia because they were paying, and who knows where these funds were ever, where they went and how they were actually distributed, whether they were once a single state. So when we look at these injustices that I've been talking about, then it's clear that I can't agree to one of these injustices for those who can't achieve such a benefit as is proposed by this law for these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5813	Thank you. I move to an individual debate and is the first respected representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5814	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and fellow MPs! The final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials who are legally, technically aligned with the legal provisions which have been adopted, which are governed by the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, the position of active military persons on the exercise of pension insurance rights and the rules on compulsory insurance contributions which are fully governed by the matter of compulsory contributions. This law also harmonizes the conditions for obtaining the right to pension and early retirement for men and women who exercise pension rights under the Pension Insurance Act for persons employed, police officers and authorised officials. Insurance undertakings covered by Article 1 of the Law shall have the right to retirement when they are 65 years of life and 15 years of retirement, and to a temporary retirement pension when they are 60 years of life and 35 years of retirement. The need for this harmonisation stems from the European Union Directive on the gradual application of the principle of equality between men and women in matters of social security. The proposed amendments are aimed at equating men and women with regard to age conditions and retirement training to acquire age and early retirement rights regardless of the conditions applicable under the Pension Insurance Act. Finally, I would point out that these amendments represent the completion of the legislative alignment action plan set out in Chapter XIX. – areas of social policy and employment. I therefore support the adoption of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5815	Thank you. Dear representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5816	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. A few weeks ago, the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments and amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, a fundamental law governing the Croatian pension insurance system and which is called for to be in line with the legal gains of the European Union. However, there are also a number of specific laws governing certain categories of insurance undertakings in a different way, or as a rule, the exercise of the right in a more favourable way than the general pension insurance established by the basic law. One of those special laws whose amendment and supplement law is before us today is the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials that we comply with European Union legislation, and we are also carrying out its legal, technical harmonisation with the rules adopted in the meantime. I note, and we heard that the foundation of the law was passed in '99. the year, and with amendments and additions 2000 and 2001 and 2002. The benefits, or in a different way compared to the general regulation of regulated rights under this fundamental law, are discussed by colleagues in the debate. However, in 2006, a Law on the Security Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia was adopted, which was re-designed by the services operating in that system, and whose members also exercise pension insurance rights by applying the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Military Persons, Police Officers and Officials. Over the years, the amendments to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have also shown the need to adapt properly to the laws on the basis of which workers exercise pension rights. And in this respect, there was a need for coordination that the predecessors had discussed in their discussions. As regards compliance with European Union legislation, it is a matter of acting in accordance with Council Directive 79/7 on the conduct in accordance with 19 December 1978 on the gradual application of the principle of equality between men and women in matters of social security, which means the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in all matters relating to the area of social security. In particular, it is a matter of equating age to the achievement of the first retirement and early retirement pensions that are made according to the provisions of this amendment law for men and women, thus eliminating any gender discrimination in the exercise of pension insurance rights for a particular category of insurance undertakings. In this way, the conditions for the acquisition of the right to an age and early retirement for active military personnel, police officers and authorised officials will be prescribed by this law in the future, rather than by the Pension Insurance Act. And that the draft law is in line with the acquis of the European Union and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe testifys and is accompanied by a declaration of conformity. What I appreciate is the fact that the proposed law does not extend pension insurance rights or a circle of persons exercising their rights and the fact that it does not require the provision of specific resources in the state budget. I use the opportunity to commend the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which, by delivering this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to this House, fulfilled its established obligation to adopt this document in the first quarter of this year, which is this way and done. For these reasons, I will support the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5817	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5818	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Before us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials. Look, I understand very well, since I am deeply interested in the functioning of the pension system and unlike many colleagues and colleagues, it is a dominant area, an area of interest to me. And I know why this law is passed. We are in accession negotiations, we need to get rid of extra workers in certain government services and try to solve it in this painless, painless way. However, it is not fair not to tell us both here and the public that this law and these amendments and the rest of this law in force continue to have a hyperproduction of pensioners, to oppose the principle that for a good pension we should have a long period of time and a good salary and that this is essentially a line of less resistance because we do not want to use our ability to get rid of the people we need in the military, police, security services to provide alternative employment and make them useful members of this society who will work within their remaining abilities for a long time and contribute to their knowledge and skills to a wider social community. I know that it is a practice in Croatia for such laws to be passed to address problems one time, but exceptions must not become a rule. I am fully justified in passing laws on the retirement of Istrian coal miners because the coal mine has closed down. They don't have anywhere to miner at that time when it was. I also understand that in 2002, when there is another provision in this law and another privilege spoken of by my colleague Lesar added that there was then a need to fire a lot of people in the military but I don't understand that this law can and must exist in Croatian society for so long because these laws are really passed for one-time use and for the solution of certain problems. Gentlemen, we can talk about making this law better, or we can go in favour of equating retirement conditions for men and women, but it's easy for this law to do because it's about who understands the retirement of 55 and 50 year olds and not people who work 40 years and are 60 to 65 years old. So, there can be practice sexual equality in retirement, but I wonder if we're bringing something into the system at a small door to expand it later, which would not be good without a broad public debate and without one political consensus when and how to establish sexual equality when we retire. Now that I mention it but before I say the justification that people who work in these services have a well-informed job internship already exists here, we must be aware that they do not retire at 60 years and 15 years of retirement or full, premature or old when they are 65 and 15 years of retirement, rather than by law of Article 4 of this law, this life span is reduced to 50 to 55 years, and we have to say it publicly. The fourth privilege which is not mentioned here is in Article 6a introduced in this law in 2002 and says this: "When, in the appropriate procedure, the service or service determines the inability of further professional development, the service may cease with the right to a disability pension due to its professional inability to work caused by injury at work or professional illness.". Look, professional development with inability to work on a work-related or professional illness has absolutely nothing to do with it and this is an unnecessary article of the law since this subject is regulated by Article 8 which I welcome here if the Health Commission of the Competent Ministry or the Authority of the Security Intelligence System declares an insurance undertaking incompetent for the tasks carried out by the person referred to in Article 1(1) of this Act an authorised expert referred to in Article 113(1) of the Law. The pension insurance law will determine the existence of professional or general incompetence to work under the law. This compensates. Only if we want to continue to have the possibility in Article 6a that people at the age of 45 will retire because we have one criterion that they must have a minimum of twenty years of training. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you will understand me. I am the dominant representative of the pensioners, and I am fond of these pensioners and we have many in our ranks, but it is my duty to put myself in this way to talk openly about problems, to talk about the burdens of the pension system in Croatia, about the unsustainable hyperproduction of pensioners, and you will understand me tomorrow when for moral reasons I do not vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5819	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? Here you go. Revered Tamara Obradović Mazal State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5820	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank the esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the Assembly for contributing to the process of adopting this law, for your constructive remarks and individual reviews as well as your praises to the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship for the rapid and quality reaction to the sequence of expectations and related to the legislative harmonisation plan adopted by this House at the beginning of the year. This final bill does not regulate or extend, does not change the circle of insurance, this law does not intend to extend the scope of the law. At least this law wants to introduce some new benefits as apostrophe. I would like to repeat, in fact, what this bill wants, which is the intensity of the promoter, which is the intensity of the government. To remove discrimination in an existing circle of insurance undertakings within the same range of rights between men and women, based on a directive which is in the attachment, does not extend the scope, does not increase the number, within the existing number of insurance companies consisting of two sexes of male and female, we want to draw a line of equality based on non-discrimination. We would also like to implement a horizontal alignment of this final draft law with the rules adopted in the meantime on the basis of those categories that the legislator has the right to establish, starting with particularly difficult working conditions in professions established by existing law, because of its characteristics in the performance of work and the difficult working conditions. The reason why we are passing this law let me use a directive that has been mentioned here on several occasions to sort of restore the focus of the debate on the essence of this final bill. Three reviews the principle of equality as the original basis of the directive that we transpose into this law directly or indirectly enables equal access to the programme by contributing to the calculation of fees and corresponding increases within the framework of the other pension system. In addition, the aim of this Directive is to ensure the application of the principle of equality within the framework of pension schemes based on employment and ultimately I would add that Member States have the obligation to take the necessary measures to amend or abolish all the laws and regulations which contain the elements of equality on the basis of the criteria for opening Chapter 19 of the Social Policy and Employment in the part of the removal of all forms of discrimination, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes this final draft law in order to repeat within the circle of insurance companies on the basis of the applicable right of equalisation between men and women. Finally, Article 8 consumes, or refers to Article 1. Final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5821	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this bill. We will vote when the necessary conditions are met and this ends today's session. Tomorrow we'll start with point 8. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations at 9 hours and 30 minutes. Good night, fellows!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-27-0.u5822	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please turn yourself in. You can vote. Here you go. Thank you. The result? This law was passed with 77 votes for, no abstentions and 45 against. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. We're going back to work. It is best to accept the practice that we have already applied several times, and that is not to take a break on Fridays, but to continue to do the agendas, voting and then earlier can go home, weekends, etc. I think we all agree on that. Here we go to the eighth point of this agenda. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations, with the Final Bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 31. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
