ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10234	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam MPs and gentlemen of the MPs. Here I am pleased to present to you another law which is one of those that we mark with the E.U., so one of the laws that the legislation of the Republic of Croatia complies with the regulations of the European Union. I must say, of course, the fact that you know well, but I will repeat that so far we have not had a single roof law that speaks of the repression of discrimination, however, in our fundamental law, in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, of course, through the fundamental values that have been incorporated into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are also anti-discrimination provisions. Also in the Labour Act, the Law on Gender Equality, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, then the Criminal Law. For example, in the Law on Armed Forces, the Law on civil servants and tenants, anti-discrimination measures have been put in place for certain areas, i.e. specific issues of discrimination. We have, of course, cited it all in our talks with the representatives of the European Commission. I'm going to say a little chronology so you have a complete framework for why, as this law is passed, that is, why we propose it. In the European Commission, however, they also asked for one such roof law to be prepared. The next question is who will prepare such a law and who will present it to the Government and then finally in the Croatian Parliament. We felt, for example, that it would be good for the Human Rights Office to do so, but the European Commission, I personally think, rightly, has asked the holder of the whole job to be one of the ministries. We agreed to be the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity because in this particular ministry we are dealing in different ways with actually issues of combating discrimination because we are working, we are taking care of certain very specific and sensitive groups in Croatian society. That's how the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and passed this law and, of course, the fact is that I, as Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, care, among other things, about human rights and the law that we've been doing for a long, very thorough time, consulting all the professional but all the interested public is before you today. I must also say that when the law was prepared, a public debate was held, so one large round table at the Centre for Human Rights where we invited all those who worked on the law, but also all those whom we thought were interested, above all all those associations, all representatives of civil society in Croatia who have been dealing with different ways of protecting human rights and promoting human rights in the Republic of Croatia for many years. I would also like to say that experts from the Faculty of Law in Zagreb participated in the drafting of this law, then representatives of all relevant authorities of the state administration, representatives of the Office of the Public Attorney and representatives of the Centre for Human Rights. What I also think important in the introduction is that on that round table, so in this public debate on this law, we received unreserved support on the provisions of this law. It also supports the meeting of the Economic and Social Council, hence support from representatives of six union centres and representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association. The draft law on the prevention of discrimination as you have seen, sets out the grounds for discrimination and all in order to ensure that every potential marginalised and discriminated social group is entitled to equal treatment and, of course, maximum and full protection. As you have seen in accordance with the provisions of this bill, discriminatory grounds are race, ethnicity, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, union membership, education, social status, marital or family status, age, health status, disability and of course birth identity or expression or genetic heritage. What I also find important is the areas in which this law will apply. I will highlight the one that seems to me to be the most important, above all work and working conditions, the possibility of carrying out independent or non-permanent activities, including the criteria for selection and conditions in employment, or progress. I will, of course, point out and believe that this will also be the case during the debate, that as regards working legal relations, working conditions, the position on the labour market, it is absolutely certain that women are still unfortunately in that group that is discriminated very often. I have to say that, of course, because I'm also a woman and because women very often complain to me, women who want to have a family, but also want to have a career. Women are the only ones who ask themselves about employment very often, unfortunately, which is absolutely discriminatory, whether they are married, whether they have children, whether they are young, whether they will have children, whether they will have more children, whether they are pregnant, unfortunately they also get cancellations at the time of pregnancy, etc. etc. Unfortunately, women often hide pregnancy precisely because of fear of existence and their future. One of these areas is certainly education, science, but also sport, social security involving social care, pension and health insurance, unemployment insurance, health care, justice, administration, housing, public information, media, access to goods and services, membership and action in trade unions, civil society organisations, political parties or any other organisation, as well as participation in cultural and artistic creation. This law, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, brings in another newspaper that is not particularly well known so far in all these regulations that I have spoken of, which, of course, are at different levels and different areas of life dealing with discrimination, which is the term so-called. multiple discrimination. I'll give you an example of what we were thinking when we decided to introduce that idea. For example, I'm going to talk about women again and in this case, about women with disabilities. So these are people who are very often double, triple, multiple discrimination, so because they are women and because they are disabled. I don't have to be sure to mention examples and then position in the labour market in employment and of course in progress, but also in all other areas of life to the media and of course political life. I believe you'll discuss it more in the debate as well. What I also think is important to point out that the provisions of this law will apply to all legal and natural persons without exception, and therefore any legal or natural person must act in accordance with the content of this draft bill. What was one of the doubts during the draft of the law, the debate in the public on the law was a body that would be the bearer of fact and that would oversee the implementation of the law and the holder of all the most important affairs related to this law or the fight against discrimination. We have decided to make this independent, specialized body the office that already exists, of course the Office of the Police Attorney. The D.A. agreed to do that. That's what he was talking about at that public debate, so on the Round Table, and in the future, when you believe you support this law, it will be that body that will oversee the implementation of this law in all areas, but also file an annual report. All relevant institutions and civil society organisations, trade unions, employers' associations and advice for national minorities will have to be included in the draft report, so all of them will have to give their opinions which will then be incorporated into this regular report by the Office of the Ombudsman. Of course, the Office of the Attorney General is now submitting an annual report to the Croatian Parliament on its work, however, as it provides for this law, and what is important to say is that an extension of the Ombudsman's Office is also envisaged in order to properly monitor the implementation of this law. What I still think at the end should be pointed out is that in this document, discrimination victims and all persons who attended or witnessed discrimination or reported discrimination, so to speak. whistles shall be protected against any further discrimination. We have also incorporated this protection into the Law on State officials and tenants, however, we thought it necessary for that provision to be incorporated into the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. Finally, at the very end of the case, ladies and gentlemen, the law also provides for three types of lawsuits which may be filed or which may be subject to victims of discrimination in court proceedings, which are an action for the determination of discrimination, a suit for prohibition or for the elimination of discrimination and a case for the compensation of immaterial damages for discrimination. Here, ladies and gentlemen, this is briefly, so very briefly what I think is most important is the new Law on Discussing Discrimination. For the first time, the Law on Discussing Discrimination in the Republic of Croatia, because the government believes that discrimination really poses a serious threat to the construction of a real democratic society with a high degree of social sensitivity, or security, tolerance, mutual respect, respect and, of course, the promotion of human rights. As we're all on this path together, I suggest you ladies and gentlemen support the adoption of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10235	Thank you. We have one correction, Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10236	It would have been a good thing that Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister insisted, but unfortunately, that's not the case, that although this is a bill that should be a roof law, and that as you say, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, that the rest of the laws, you've listed which, in existence, are suppressing discrimination. Unfortunately, that's not the case. I'll just list you a few laws. The Family Relations Act where a woman must therefore go on maternity leave, and a man does not have to go on maternity leave. It's one source from everything you've listed, which later discriminations go through from this real life the way they live. Then, we recently brought it in, we haven't brought it in yet, but we've discussed a minimum wage law where workers, most workers in the textile and wood industry, are discriminated against. Then we still don't have the law, it's this discrimination that's invisible because there's no law where women can't give their egg station, and men are allowed to do it. And the whole series has examples in the law of which comes directly...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10237	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10238	Direct discrimination. We're bringing some right now. They're not happily voted yet, and we don't have any.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10239	Thank you. Do the committees want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the President of the Committee, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities considered this bill as a home working body. The debate stresses that the proposed law provides a fairly broad basis for protecting human rights from discrimination throughout the range of areas, from work and working conditions, education, science, sport, social security, health care, justice and administration, housing, public information and media to access to goods and services, action in trade unions and civil society organisations, and participation in cultural and artistic creation. Also, harassment and sexual harassment, segregation and indirect discrimination are introduced as specific forms of discrimination. In particular, the members of the Committee pointed out the good co-operation of applicants with associations of disabled persons, which accepted the proposal to encourage discrimination and failure of reasonable proposals to persons with disabilities also as discrimination. It has been pointed out that discrimination against persons with disabilities is often multiple, which is also determined by this law as well as repeated and prolonged discrimination or by one who is hardly affected by the victim. It was assessed by a good solution to appoint a public defender who has a lot of experience in the field and a lot of good results, whose powers of this bill are further strengthened and its cooperation and dialogue with social partners and civil society organisations are encouraged. It has been pointed out that in his work so far, the Ombudsman has become a reference institution in the protection of human rights, and since his powers are further extended, it is necessary to ensure all assumptions, which means those specific assumptions so that he can act in a good way in accordance with the provisions of this law. The debate further points to the existing problem of the length of proceedings before courts. In view of the current negative practice in this regard, the opinion has been expressed that it will be difficult to secure urgency in the handling of cases under the provisions of this law, thus far before the judgments relating to the proceedings and the proceedings relating to discrimination have been passed. It is assessed by the extremely important further training and training of judges with the aim of improving the application of this law, as well as by employees of state bodies, local and regional self-government bodies and bodies with public authority. It is also pointed out in the end that the need for continued monitoring of the implementation of this law for which this Committee has a special interest as it would, through and through otherwise good cooperation with the Ombudsman, respond in due time to possible difficulties in the application of the law in question. The Committee also voted on one amendment. The amendment is as follows: Article 21 of this proposal deletes paragraph 4. Recital — Paragraph 4, so Article 21, is regulated to the so-called so-called ‘. I intervened to bear the costs of your participation in the litigation regardless of the outcome of the case which was a sort of precedent that regardless of the outcome of the case one of the participants in the case actually must bear the costs even though he is right. That party the implicator supports. This would mean that civil society organisations, mainly in the case of associations, will have a significant limited opportunity to participate in litigation proceedings as involved by a person who claims to be a victim of discrimination, since they themselves should bear the costs of participating in the case regardless of the outcome of the case. So we'd always be practically in a loss of money. Such a solution is contrary to the provision of Article 54(1). The law on litigation, which states that a party which loses its entire case is liable to the opposing party and to make up for its costs. Since the involvement of the involved is decided by the court, the judge always decides whether the person involved will have the right, I will use the word, intervene or not, so the court decides. There is no need in any way to restrict the involvement of the involved in order to prevent unnecessary litigation, as warned by the proposing representatives. There is also no concern about the additional costs of the state budget, as according to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, as already said, the party that loses its entire case is obliged to bear the costs of the counterparty and its involvement. In addition, by allowing a number of participants to be involved in the procedure... discrimination can help reduce discrimination at all levels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the discussion, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Discussing Discrimination with the amendment that has been explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10241	Thank you. Do the other committees want to take a word for it? Yeah. Madam Chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality Gordan Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10242	Mr. President, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State. At its 7th session, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the Proposal for a Law on Discrimination of Discrimination with the Final Proposal for a Law. The applicant's representative explained the draft law. The Republic of Croatia has so far not had a full law that would in a unique way regulate the problem of the prevention of discrimination, although, of course, anti-discrimination provisions are contained in certain regulations and this proposal for legislation of the Republic of Croatia in the field of discrimination is in line with the directives of the European Union. In the debate followed by the inaugural explanation of the Ombudsman for children, he proposed that the adoption of an appropriate regulation should be provided for in order to bring all Ombudsmans' future actions into line. The Advocate General for Gender Equality pointed out the need to commit to the conduct of the proposed law and to legal persons with public powers to which infringement provisions should also apply on a law to which the proposal for a representative of the applicant had no objection. In the discussion of the Centre for Peace Studies, it proposed replacing the term of sexual harassment with a term of sexual harassment which was not accepted because of the unification of terminology already used in existing laws. The proposal to commit all bodies to keeping sex records in all cases of discrimination regardless of discrimination was also agreed by a representative of the applicant. Members and members of the Committee unanimously decided to submit amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, with the Final Proposal for a Law. The first amendment refers to Article 8 in order to add the words "body with public authority" to the words "legal persons with public authority" as it would also oblige legal persons with public authority to act in accordance with the proposed law. Amendment 2. 3 and 4 refer to Articles 25, 26 and 28 and supplement them because the current proposal does not provide for penalties for a responsible person in a body with public powers. So we propose as a committee that these articles be complemented by these amendments. This amendment 5 to add in Article 14 a new paragraph 4 which reads: "All records of cases of discrimination on any basis shall be shown by gender.". The members and members of the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination with those amendments to the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10243	Thank you. Is there more? If there's no committee, then I'm opening a debate. And the first is on behalf of the SDP Club, namely Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10244	Thank you. First, on behalf of the SDP Club, I will welcome the adoption of this one law, therefore, as a roof anti-discrimination law. Because ultimately this is our obligation in the process of joining the European Union, i.e. the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in the field of discrimination. What we think is good in this Law is that in Croatia, therefore, one body is determined in Croatia in this case, it is the Office of the Public Prosecutor, who will be the central body for the prevention of discrimination and cover all areas where discrimination could occur. And I especially welcome the introduction of the concept of multiple discrimination. Of course, we also have certain objections and certain questions, so to speak, in view of current practice, the application of current anti-discrimination, the eating of special laws or the provisions of anti-discrimination provisions in certain laws. In the opening statement, the legislator has made a real effort to list all the conventions, all the directives, protocols, and national laws that, so far, are almost all the areas where discrimination is happening and therefore, there are different forms and forms of discrimination. They are therefore numbered from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Provisions of the Labour Act, the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Equal Communities, the Criminal Law on Civil Servants, the Armed Forces and various national strategy or policy programmes. What is missing in this opening argument, however, are in fact specific data when it comes to discrimination on different grounds, which would concern Croatia. So, data, statistical indicators, research that may be going to indicate which areas is discrimination and which group is the most pronounced in Croatia. How and how we've fought any kind of discrimination so far. On page 9, in an explanation when it comes to the consequences that law-making will take place, the first sentence says that the adoption of this law will allow citizens to adequately protect their right to equal opportunities if it is injured. If I'm not mistaken, we've had similar arguments with all the anti-discrimination laws adopted so far. Starting with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, on the other hand, not to list those laws mentioned by the Vice-President in her opening section. And then we're actually wondering, since they're also predicting adequate protection and predicting adequate protection in different areas, by different types of discrimination, then I'm actually asking the question at all if these laws haven't so far protected against discrimination whether this kind of roof law will make it possible. Unfortunately, I am afraid that in Croatia a very good one, so to speak, is the practice of making both good laws and harmonised and European legislation, and then we have problems applying them, we have problems implementing them, implementing them. And so I really want to point out that we don't have the illusion that now that this law is passed I don't know how much more protection. It will not be if we apply this law in its application as we do until now, the anti-discrimination laws that have been applied in Croatia for several years. We also suspect that adequate protection will also be possible by having really great penalties for non-compliance with the laws that we basically welcome. Unfortunately, however, experience and when it comes to different discriminatory actions in Croatia shows that in Croatia, the long way from seeking justice and adequate satisfaction is in any case the victims of discrimination. Furthermore, the Law also discusses education in this introduction and says that education of employees in state bodies, bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, and bodies with public authority in the press of statistical forms for the monitoring of discrimination and promotion of this law will therefore work on its good implementation. It seems to me that we are something, when so far the anti-discrimination laws have been in place or have not done well enough. So on behalf of the club, I'm asking the government if in the past, therefore, the existing anti-discrimination laws in their application were to fail to allow it in this anti-discrimination law. In addition, if you look at the cost structure foreseen for the implementation of this law, then we find it absolutely illogical to perfect, professional training of judges predicts about 300 thousand kunas and that the promotion of the Law in the public is predicted to cost 400 thousand kuna and to print statistical forms about 100 thousand kuna. Furthermore, regarding these costs, I think it is necessary to specifically allocate the cost which, therefore, the money that will be spent on the education of all the employees of the state bodies, in the state administration, in the bodies of local administration and self-government, in the way it is stated here. Because I don't think at least such funds are foreseen specifically in these bodies' budgets. So we appeal to a much greater investment in the education of all those who will be obliged to implement it tomorrow, or to comply with the provisions of this Law. When we talk about discrimination in Croatia, then we need to talk about one area that is actually going to say black dot somewhere. Namely court practice, which is, in cases of discrimination, gender, in view of sexual commitment, in view of religion, marital status, other grounds for possible discrimination. If I am not mistaken and the European Commission has asked Croatia for this data during the screening for the area, there is unfortunately no such data for the chapter of the judiciary of fundamental human rights. Because it's essentially anti-discrimination laws, provisions under these laws. They have been in force since 2003. Today we are in 2008 but today we do not have these case-laws which will in some way, in a positive sense, direct all sorts of future actions. The opinion is that it is probably because Croatian legislation has so far not made it possible for third so-called. to third parties, to press charges on behalf of the victim of discrimination before the competent courts. Maybe now these provisions of this law where... There is the possibility of these interfaces that, with the adoption of, of course, the amendments made by the Committee on Human Rights that perhaps in that part, something will move. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When the question arises at all, the question is how much justice in Croatia is achieved when it comes to discrimination on any basis. Apparently, he's considered inaccessible. In public, there is a suspicion in the public, and we argue justifiable in the successful and quick completion of any court process and in fact very few people decide to press charges to get satisfaction through judicial judgments, so through the trial. In Croatia there is undeniable discrimination. Discrimination is based on everything. At the end of the line, we can only take as indicators the reports of our attorneys from the attorney general by means of a lawyer for gender equality, a lawyer for children from whom complaints from citizens are increasingly from year to year, and in fact there is still a certain inability to act, in the conduct of our attorneys. So I ask another question whether this law, this roof anti-discrimination in all areas where discrimination is going to be able to change something. We'll just take the area of work. The labour market. The discrimination that occurs, so there are exact indicators, there are scientific research. Discrimination during employment either because of age, whether because of sex, or because of some kind of disability, or because of pregnancy, or because of the idea of pregnancy. What about various types of abuse during the work process or at the workplace? What about differences in discrimination when it comes to salaries between men and women, for example, in Croatia for working of equal value? What about, does the discrimination include unpaid overtime and work over the holidays and which is not paid, so does the discrimination arising from the work include non-payment of salaries? Are there changes in working contracts when contracts are converted into contracts for a certain period of time? Whether this is all a number of discrimination on different grounds, i.e. discrimination contrary to the provisions of both existing and existing law, the Labour Act. I remind you, what about thousands and thousands of working disputes that, even under the current Labour Act, should be completed within six months? You've waited years at all to be, to be invited to the first hearing. The second question, how many of these thousands of work disputes apply to those who have started on certain discrimination? Unfortunately, we don't have any data on that. Perhaps only in some future act of our courts if we make them bound by this law by something like that, we will have something like that. I would especially like to single out the exact problem of labour abuse and say that from 2003 to 2007 a total of just over a hundred lawsuits was filed on the basis of a breach of Article 30. The labour law that speaks of the violation of the dignity of workers on certain grounds. None of these hundreds of lawsuits have been prosecuted, nor are they seen to possibly be passed, let's say, at least one inadmissible verdict, and that's the problem that will remain. So thousands of disputes that are under way, which surely hides who knows exactly how many lawsuits because of different types of discrimination, lawsuits directly related to certain articles of certain laws they will unfortunately remain. Several meetings were attended by the professional public by our lawyers, experts and the like who have just warned of a huge deficit when it comes to the Croatian judiciary and the conduct of our courts. All anti-discrimination laws shall be based on compliance with certain standards established. Our judiciary when it gets that kind of thing I have a feeling it doesn't actually know what to do with it, so in a way I'd say stalls even such actions and acts of such lawsuits. It's not my opinion alone. This is the opinion of many experts in particular from the Faculty of Law who have nevertheless carried out certain analyses of application and treatment under the current anti-discrimination laws. After this, will the application of this law make citizens more courageous, so to speak, decide to press charges? Because they think they're being discriminated on some basis. In the SDP Club, we believe that not until the case-law is effective, swift, until fair judgments are passed that will show the victim and who will be encouraged to press charges and those who discriminate on any basis wherever they come from to show adequate and quick that such behaviour is inadmissible in Croatia and that they will not be tolerated. In the SDP, therefore, by supporting the need, I am stressing the need to adopt such an anti-discrimination law as well, we are asking that there may be more concerns and accounts in the application of this law than we have done so far when it comes to anti-discrimination laws, because otherwise the way to justice in Croatia will continue to be very long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10245	Thank you very much. We'll interrupt the session now. We'll continue at 3:00. And the first in line is on behalf of the SDSS Club Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Then Mrs. Mariana Petir and then Damir Cain and so on. So 3:00. I want everyone comfortable!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10246	We're going back to work. And on behalf of the SDSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ratko Gajica. He's gone. We'll wait for him a little longer. The second club is also the name of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10247	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, etc. As the people would say, Croatia is making progress every day, so when it comes to this anti-discrimination legislation, but not just legislation, but when it comes to real relations between people in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the Proposed Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, a whole series of these legal texts are listed here from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Labour Act, the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Equal Communities, the Criminal Law, the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, but also this legislation is called for by a whole series of documents of the United Nations or European Union documents, as a rule of this Directive on page 5. Council Directive 2000/43/EC on the application of the principle of equality of persons regardless of their racial and ethnic origin, and the Council Directive establishing a framework for equal treatment in the field of employment and selection of calling, there are various conventions against torture, conventions on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, etc., etc. I, when it comes to the whole of the legislation, would, among other things, double the Statute of the County of Istria, a way of regulating minority issues, but on some other occasion. And indeed, as I said, every day Croatia becomes a more courteous country, and when year after year, let's say up in Bleiburg there would be no blackness, we could say, and since the Homeland War, it has been 13 years, that Croatia really becomes one suitable, normal place to live. No more scandals in our stadiums "kill, kill a Serb", no more because some Serb is being shot under a window, or as it used to be, to shoot him on the doorstep like the Rabbit family, or the wrong house of a union leader, to drive them out of their homes or kick them out of work, although I never, clearly forget who started the war, who destroyed Vukovar and not to pick up other war horrors. Fortunately, there was no such thing in Istria, even in the 1990s, when a policy in those places simply opposed such madness. Today I'm talking about Croatia, today speaking of this country being restored to unnecessarily broken houses in the storm, the return takes place, but it's tragic that people who return have no business and do not come to work, and that is a huge problem, but I also want to say that it is not the true thesis of Vuk Jeremic, Serbian Foreign Minister, that Croatia has expelled 250 thousand citizens of Serbian nationality. It is closer to the truth, or it is closer to the truth that the political leadership of Zagreb, Belgrade, has in some way agreed to leave the Serbs from these areas and that the job, de facto, was done by the Krajese Army and Belgrade politics. On page 6, it is literally said, I will quote that "The European Commission against racism and intolerance has strongly recommended that Croatian authorities establish an independent body specialising in the fight against racism and racial discrimination, particularly to assist victims in the provision of compensation for injuries committed by authorities or private persons. Such a body may act within the framework of an existing structure or act completely separately provided that it follows the ECRI recommendations made in Recommendation No 7 on national legislation to combat racism and racial discrimination and Recommendation No 2 on specific bodies to combat racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and national intolerance giving guidance on the establishment of responsibilities and functions of such bodies." Done quote page 6. What I personally think is good, that this government has somehow fought it out, actually wiped out the streets that were named after, say, Milly Budaku, a clear scribe, not NDH, under quotes to be cynical. It is good that this government has removed that shame from Francetic's monuments, which has not been done before, but it is not good to continue, let's say young people go to Thompson's concerts with Ustasha hats, so that, as for irony, HDZ is now coming out with statements of Ustasha features in Zagreb, while Mesic, not the president, but the president of the Zagreb City of Zagreb's HDZ says that the concert has been staged for the promotion of Milan Bandic. Now for us who are black and black, red-red, green-green, yellow-yellow, nothing is clear anymore, but I am personally glad that the cousin of such a policy is giving up on that policy, as we will, hopefully, give up on 0.0 a change. But not to spend too much time on those areas or in that area right now, to touch some real discrimination so-called. protected tenants. We've been dealing with this problem more or less intensively in this country, but I dare say for the last 15 years full intensely for the last 10 years. All in opposition to those people who speak to us roughly promise we will solve this problem when we come to power, but when we find ourselves in power, that promise is generally ignored. The problem of these protected tenants in my court should be resolved as soon as possible. I know that the real owners of the 47th, 48th, 50th, I don't know, 51st or 52nd year, were committed one terrible or terrible injustice. They were more nationalized than they were taken from, not just by them, but by generations before them, and these people need to be compensated, but not by the fact that in 2008, or I don't know what year, we make a new injustice, and we throw out people living in them in a peaceful legal possession of the 40th, 50th and 60th years, respectively. It is clear that when it comes to this issue of doubt, there is no doubt for me that owners should be absolutely compensated, but let us not in 2008 make a new injustice against people who have not earned this injustice and who are not guilty of the accident people have suffered by nationalisation and 48, 49, 50 or not. I know that in this case there is no full justice, the only question is what is the least of the damage, but I really think that these people as well as nearly 400 thousand Croatian citizens who have been given the opportunity to buy out so-called. Social housing should be able to sort of get their apartment under quotes "reached" because it's not those who blame it for being in the '60s, '70s or '50s someone assigned that apartment to them, not what we normally called a social apartment. What is also interesting in this legal text are certain norms. Article 7 refers to protection against victimisation. No one shall be placed in a more unfavourable position because he has reported discrimination in good faith, attended discrimination, refused a warrant for discriminatory treatment or in any way participated in a procedure governed by discrimination under the provisions of this law. That's absolutely something to say hello to. It should also be pointed out that Article 18 of jurisdiction states that if this law is not otherwise laid down for the requirements of Article 17, I will also quote them, in the first instance, a really competent municipal court, and Article 17 says that a person who claims that the victim of discrimination under the provisions of this law is authorised to file an action and to require that the defendant is found to have violated the prosecutor's right of equal treatment or that the action he has taken or failed may directly lead to infringements of the right to an equal treatment of the action means to determine discrimination in paragraph 1 of point 2. it is said that it is prohibited to take actions that violate the prosecutor's right of equal treatment or to carry out actions which eliminate discrimination or its consequences and not to list everything further. But surely those standards are one civilizational novel and it should be accepted. Article 26 of paragraph 1 states that anyone with the aim of causing the fear of another or creating an enemy, humiliating or offensive environment in acts of sexual nature will be punished by a fine of 5 to 40 thousand kuna. It's just that now that this is a provision, we're not exaggerating. These sexual discrimination in Croatia in my court is not as much as to read in some media, but I want to say all in all the following and end it. After us are 90 years old and real discrimination today 2008 can be seen whether someone with their salary can get to the apartment, whether they can come up with a tank full of oil, to food, to ducks for their children, to a decent age, to a happy youth for themselves, to their children. So real discrimination, in a way, we're slowly leaving it in the '90s. There was a war, an unlived hatred of many minorities broke out. Croatia's note of bene was the victim of a brutal aggression. There's been a transformation. After that conversion, all others who appear in this labour market are in some way discriminated, because these have to start from nothing today, and those who participated in this, whether it is the electors of HDZ authorities or socialist directors, start with hotels, banks, factories, agricultural combinations, etc. Discrimination today can be seen in that some, unfortunately, have been compensated for, for example, how to express themselves. The heirs of the Rabbit family. Unfortunately, some who have been in the same situation to this day or their family have not been compensated, as is the case with the trade unionist Pervert. I regret that, say, NOB fighters don't have the same rights as Homeland War fighters, etc. But I agree with everyone who will say that the biggest discrimination of the 90s was made over 13,000 innocently injured defenders who, by losing their lives, have actually lost everything, and that's the same thing to say. All in all as I have begun, every day we are making more progress and indeed after this law, but first and foremost because of the practice in real life, we can say that we are slowly becoming a polite country in which if we manage to deal with these economic and social problems can be lived politely and culturally.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10248	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorary Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10249	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are talking here today within this item of the agenda, about the issue of combating discrimination which is certainly an extremely important social issue and social responsibility, including us here. At first, I will agree with what the Deputy Prime Minister said, that according to what the Constitution says and according to what it says in key and appropriate laws, we have an installed relationship that we are all equal before the law in this society. I hope that we can also agree that from this declaration to those issues, many of the issues and situations that we have in life, this thing is being sprayed in a way that what it says in the Constitution is not by itself a guarantee that this thing is going into practice. On the contrary, many examples show that we need to keep an eye on this, that we should and have sensitivity, and that at this point we must not lose it out of focus. If I can say something that would be a framework as a criterion for why or how it should be looked at, then it seems to me that the framework on this issue would be how we stand or how I as an individual and how we stand in society in relation to what is declared in the law so that it could be said through this: consistent respect for what is written in the law based on the facts that we have in life without calculations and equally to everyone. So let me say, in short, the consistent application of the law equally to everyone without prejudice, and if that is the criterion then I would be willing to argue that we still have problems in society or we have a problem, however you want, and that is why we are talking about discrimination today, so today we are talking about this law and I think we can say that we still have a lot of work to do on this issue, simply because it requires a proper social relationship. I'll agree with what counterpart Cain said earlier, we've progressed more or less solidly in this regard, no matter what the environment is, what there is a group, which has cases that are dramatic to God or produce a great injustice. And I'll say one more thing in this part. I very much hope, regardless of what or precisely because this law bears the label of the PZE, I very much hope that we are aware that we are bringing it not because of Europe, but that we are bringing it in because of us and our society and the practice that we want to establish by implementing the standards of this law. Now something about content. Realizing that what it says, this is how the law is done, what it says, that the problem is normized, structured, which guarantees provide nominally. We at the SDSS Club estimate he's a good quality, and that's why we're gonna back him up. On the one hand, because it is solidly made, on the other hand, that entering this matter or entering this matter and us in this House and Republic of Croatia shows that it is aware that it must answer this problem. And this is the beginning of answering this issue of discrimination that I hope in a number of life situations we do not deny. I could even talk about yesterday's examples, since this morning if you want, but I won't, I won't talk about it that way and that way. Something about this particular content. On the one hand, it is good that no one is to be put in an unfavourable position, whether it is to create an unfavorable position toward an individual, whether it is to create a so - called creation. An hostile mood in which many people feel unsure and feel unwell. That seems like a good detection to me. The law also speaks of a difficult form, which means when we have a whole set of circumstances that produce, to be very mild, uncomfortable to live in some circumstances in some environment in some time, I don't know what situation. And I need to add one more thing right away. Whatever this is well written in the law, I will be prepared to claim that we do not have the sufficient amount or quality of social consciousness that understands this problem that constantly lurks in discriminatory dangers, that it must be constantly addressed and that, as I would say, as a virus we must have as a society sensitivity for those people, those groups, those situations in which this discrimination arises or threatens to break out at any moment. Therefore, we are as healthy a society or as healthy a society or as healthy a society as we are about this social consciousness that this danger exists, how aware we are and how determined we are to oppose it. There's still a lot of work to be done on this issue in the circumstances in which we live. There's still a lot of work to do in all structures and in the most serious people and in the most well-intentioned people, and especially there's a lot of work to do, so to speak, on the ground floor. For this reason, in order to create a social consciousness that is important for the determination to deal with this problem and with the public messages from here or somewhere else must be sent openly and must be made clear. So, messages that go into discrimination no matter what form they can't pass. I'm not going to speculate about what these messages are and how many they are, but I do have a need, which is why I said that, I have a need to stress that the public message is also very important in this regard. The third thing I need to say on this subject is that I want to point out some difficulties in implementing what's written in the law. I'm only going to refer to these two, two important points that in this law are given, say, such a priority. The first thing is the central body is the Public Attorney and the second is the court and the court procedure in which discrimination is determined and where satisfaction is obtained. First of all, this question about the vacancy attorney. I think we're completely on the verge of fighting discrimination is how to say a hard fight, is one process, and we can't just leave it to the attorney general and just a court case. The following are the reasons. We are in the debate on the work of the attorney general, with the fact that Mr Malcic and his office are very well-respected, but in the conversation or in the report, we spoke about the restrictions of the Ombudsman, the spatial, therefore objective conditions, the human condition. This task, if it falls only on the back of the attorney general, he can't take it. In particular, it cannot deal with such a situation with these conditions and especially cannot be carried without the express publicly expressed public support. Another thing that's important. The courts are an important link. This is where I will go to seek protection and we have discussed courts both in this place and on several occasions talked about trial over a reasonable period of time, about the trial with the absence of human and professional authority, so the trial with the absence of will to react to much simpler things. And these aren't, these are complicated, complex things to have sensitivity and determination to get into. The truth is, this law says that these cases are handled urgently but I know a number of situations in which courts also say that they are acting in haste but are not doing so. And I know the numerous rulings of the constitutional court that punished the state to pay for the penalty, to take out the wallet and pay the fee for what they say because it wasn't tried within a reasonable period. So while we leave this as a process which will be the task of a civil defender in a court procedure with all the difficult circumstances and muddyness we have, then we will put the fight against discrimination into a process in which I will get some satisfaction in two, three, five, ten, or not knowing how many years. This fight against discrimination is not, nor will these effects be. That won't even be a good message. That won't even be a good warning. In particular, this will not be a good guarantee that this law will produce the expected effects. And I'm going to say one more thing as a fourth thing that I'm saying is that the argument for this story of yours, this feeling of fear that this thing isn't going to go well. This is about the next one. We in society have many examples of so - called. covert discrimination. She manifests herself in the following things. You have officers who interpret the law in their own way. You have officers who want to run politics. You have people who have the power of small or great, so they want the law to be applied in the way it suits him, the way he plans it, in a way that suits something else. In short, you have numerous examples on the ground floor of the act of law for small or great personal interest and you have a number of critical environments on PPDS, where underdevelopment and a lot of social assistance, areas of return where the proportion of an ordinary man's impotence is enormous. And then a man with less chance found himself facing an even more difficult obstacle. I'm telling my feeling, I'd say even a claim. This covert act of law or hidden discrimination, regardless of who it's spread to, is extremely large, I would say even an intolerable measure. I'll add one more thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10250	Your Honor, I'd like you to bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10251	With this, the clerks want to run politics. You have some vertical instructions that also say that the law is going to be implemented and all of this together then it's going to be painted on by an ordinary man in the head. Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10252	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10253	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the proposal for a law on the prevention of discrimination, with the final proposal for a law. This is really the first time we have a whole law that regulates the problem of discriminatory discrimination and that required both time and knowledge to be done. So far, we have had anti-discrimination provisions in certain laws. For example, the laws containing these provisions are also the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on Labour, the Law on Gender Equality, the same-sex Communities, the Criminal Law prohibiting direct and indirect discrimination, etc. The institutional framework has been built legislatively, followed by the implementation of them, with the aim of bringing us closer to the really high standards of the European Union. We recently talked about the prosecutor's report on gender equality and saw discrimination concerning the position of women in the labour market and political decision-making of women. The Republic of Croatia has been applying for years an example of the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women containing definitions, rights and standards. There are other international documents of the European Union, the United Nations, documents of the Council of Europe, the case law of the Court of Justice, the European Court of Human Rights, where discrimination is being banned on any basis. Protection and promotion of equality are the highest values of constitutional order and this law creates assumptions for the achievement of equal opportunities while protecting against discrimination based on race or ethicality, skin colour, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs, national or social origin, property, disability, genetic heritage, working identity, expression or sexual orientation. The law covers really wide areas of science, health, media, civil society organisations, etc. However, it is in line with the Council of Europe's directives. The first Directive refers to a change in the principle of equality of persons regardless of their racial or ethical origin. The second Council Directive relating to the establishment of a framework for equal treatment in the field of employment and knowledge selection. Direct or direct discrimination is easily seen in society in the diversity of rights, exclusions or restrictions in those rights. However, indirect or indirect discrimination that he was talking about and my colleague before me is significantly more difficult to see and is revealed through indicators, statistics, impact analysis, seemingly neutral legal norms whose purpose is not discrimination. But that leads to consequences we don't understand. For example, women only get hit because they're women. The Council of Europe Directive does not prejudice national provisions laying down age-limits for retirement, does not require employment, promotion, detention or training of a non-professional person capable of performing the tasks of the job concerned or passing a special education. It also does not question the status of churches and religious associations or communities that they have in countries in accordance with national laws. The law really lists exceptions to discrimination so as not to list them here. This law also introduces the notion of multiple discrimination, is done on a number of grounds, the concept of repeated discrimination, discrimination done multiple times, and prolonged discrimination, discrimination committed over a long period of time. A special place of discrimination and failure to allow a person with disabilities to make use of publicly available resources, to participate in public and social life, to access the workplace and the right working conditions, to adapt infrastructure and space, to use equipment, and in other ways that is not an disproportionate burden for those who are really obliged to do so and to enable it. However, what we would like to ask the applicant in the debate at the Croatian Democratic Community Club is that where we are talking about equal treatment in the case of persons with disabilities to put equal opportunities. Discrimination of people with disabilities is indeed often multiple. Discrimination is considered in this law and segregation. What I would ask you if it is possible with a special act, or by supplementing this law to set certain standards in that segregation. The implementation of the principle requires adequate judicial protection against victimisation, as set out in this law. However, the existence of a mere lawyer provides an institutional framework for the implementation of this law for full analysis also requires the co-operation of a lawyer for gender equality, a lawyer for children and persons with disabilities. And given the scope of this law, I think that, in particular, it is still necessary to set up a public defender's office in order to really do such a responsible and extensive job. In particular, the law sets out infringements aimed at sanctioning any legal or natural person acting contrary to the provisions of this law. But after the court's decision, of course. Of course we expect a more intensive education of judges and civil servants, bodies of units of local regional self-government, and bodies with public authority. We know how this court works. And we often talk about this when we talk about the lawyer's reports, especially the lawyers for gender equality. Then we concluded there already that judges in solving this problem where discrimination arises have no experience. So even less experience they have with such a great law. Therefore, an extensive, intensive education is needed in order to do so at all. Following the adoption of this law, its implementation and implementing acts shall follow. Members and members of the Croatian Democratic Community Club also discussed the generality of some interpretations, particularly highlighted discrimination that can ultimately, regardless of the exceptions, lead to absurdity of application. I think you've all noticed that, and that can be done, that absurdity really worked out. But in order for that to not happen, this is previously very important that we have stated, therefore, the education of judges and interpretations, the meaning of that law. In the end, I'd like to say that we're all trying to stop discrimination and raise the public... on the existence of discrimination and the prevention of discriminatory action but be careful. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10254	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Zlatko Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10255	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, so here's a few things on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club. First of all, I want to say that we have discussed this bill very thoroughly in our club. In principle, we agreed to support the proposal of this law and the insistence that anti-discrimination measures be referred to earlier in the various Croatian regulations and documents of the United Nations and of the Council of Europe, which are very thoroughly numbered in the introduction of this bill to try to cover one new single regulation. In fact, as much as the fact that there is no ideal society that would be entirely immune from all forms of discrimination. Discussing discrimination is one of the features of organised democratic societies. The level of efficiency of the system in responding to discrimination of procedures and behaviour testifies to the maturity of society and the functionality of the state as a service of citizens. Now almost every day we get a chance to be a certain minority. For example, when we stand in line at the post office, at the bank, at the store, when we wait for public services to resolve our demands, submissions and requests, when we want to achieve some social and health rights and so on. We're always some kind of minority. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian People's Party Club, I would like to warn here about the inconsistencies that are part of our system and which should be contained and prevented by this legislative proposal. It is explicitly stated in Article 1 of this proposal that this Law ensures the protection and promotion of equality as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Premises are created to achieve equal opportunities and regulate protection against discrimination based on race or ethicality or colour of skin, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs, national or social origin, property, membership in the Education Union, social status, marital or family status, age, health status, disability, genetic heritage, birth identity, expression or sexual orientation. So this is very clearly explicitly said, however, whether this is precisely true not only in the practice of public service but also in our laws, we also have a whole series of clear and unequivocal examples in which individual groups of citizens are openly discriminated and which only by adopting this law will not be resolved but will need to be made a little deeper reach in our Croatian legislation to remove discrimination from our society. So here's a few examples. The first example bears witness to the most radical form of discrimination against citizens. In this particular case, this is about discrimination against persons with disabilities. For example, people who don't have one hand. They were able to acquire this disability in at least 5 different ways, as a disability acquired by birth, due to accidents at work, as a result of traffic or other accidents in peacetime, as civilians due to the wound in the war or as soldiers due to the wound in the war. This can therefore be 5 different persons who have the same type and percentage of disability and thanks to our regulations have completely different disability benefits. Their range is an incredible form of humiliation and is an open discrimination against the state against citizens. Of course, we can't just handle it with one law. Second, we have another example. We also discussed today the safety of traffic on roads which, in our opinion, directly and openly discriminated against young drivers. They are therefore undoubtedly discriminated against in view of their age. Perhaps, and the article of this law, this proposal for a law on the prevention of discrimination, should have been explicitly prevented. So the promoter should know what discrimination is, if he proposes such contradictory solutions to us on the same day, and we believe that, instead of the syntagma of young drivers, the Transport Safety Act should have used the beginner’s syntagma, so that age discrimination should not be carried out. You know it's not, I think a beginner can be a man when he's 18 or 19 and he can be 40. So there wouldn't be any age discrimination like that now when it comes to young drivers. We have another example. We were recently discussing the Minimum Pay Act. It is of course openly discriminated against by workers in the textile and leather-based and wood-processing industries and we who come from the northwest of our country are particularly sensitive to these issues because it is a labour intensive industry that is characteristic of our part of the country. Therefore, this type of discrimination can be subject to discrimination in view of the social situation, property or membership in the union or the description of all three of it together. In our opinion, it's simply called inconsistency, and it needs to be fixed. By passing this Law on Discrimination Discrimination, I will not, will not, will not stick to it, but will not stick to the Proposer himself but, given the established practice, will continue to send us proposals of laws that retain the discriminatory provisions. The HNS Club believes that it is high time to break with such practice and we have at the end of one finding, one question whether there is any political will to curb and amend these obvious inconsistencies and to remove discriminatory provisions from all Croatian laws. There are many such provisions in our laws, and we believe that only by passing such a law will we avoid discrimination in some other areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10256	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go. Before you start, I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207. The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 15 hours 46 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10257	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Each of us interprets this bill somehow from his point of view. Mr. Cain spoke more from a social aspect. Mr. Gajica, from what I say in areas of special state concern, where certain things occur that I say in secret or indirect terms, there are examples of indirect discrimination that he did not clearly speak of but that he was given a glimpse of from his exposure. However, I must say that every day, every year, the Republic of Croatia becomes a more polite country and this very fact that we are here in front of this one proposal of the law to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament completely openly and loudly, this comprehensiveness or wholeness of this Bill on Discrimination of Discrimination which we have covered many items of the Law on, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on Labour, the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Equal Communities and the provisions of the Criminal Law. So we also reached at this stage a high level of debate and openness in the discussion of discrimination. Discrimination "versus" or against tolerance. So two of me would say one opposite, but as Mr Cain said a little bit about these, in terms of the social aspect, the social view I would say that a little, a little bit, put aside the expression and solidarity that would also when he spoke about the opposites then discrimination against tolerance and solidarity, tolerance and solidarity. What is this and what is the degree of one and the other in the Republic of Croatia? When it comes to discrimination in general, then the first thought is the classic, racial, African-American type or the North American type. But today it is a far broader concept that goes into the human rights segment on all grounds. And that's why I say it was incorporated into these laws already, which I mentioned and counted a little while ago. ... It seems that this bill is complete and comprehensive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So a proposal to combat discrimination. I would briefly say an anti-discrimination bill which would somehow put all possible injustices on the agenda and put under one drop of the attorney general, and then regular courts, anything that offends human dignity on any basis – race, age, sex, nation, religion, physical defects, sexual commitment, etc. It's all already numbered here. However, I must say that this is not exactly the case and what Mr. Gajica said that in the positive laws of our country, the Republic of Croatia always finds some kind of gaps in the law or law enforcement so that one hidden discrimination can always occur. And these days we are witnessing that citizens, and to encourage and write in the newspaper as one discriminatory red cloth from the corridor, interferes with the fact that privileged parliamentary pensions, privileged parliamentary pensions, according to the principle of equalisation, regardless of the earlier work, regardless of the separation of the work experience and separation on a pension basis. So, regardless of the first or second pillar, and also the third pillar, regardless of the work experience or whatever the participation and activities in the work of this House of the Highest, or the effort made in the work of this representative body, the highest representative body of the Republic of Croatia. And when they see these benches of ours to say half-emptys very often or more empty, and not only half-empty, then they're just thinking. Here and there, citizens are clearly encouraged by certain writings in the media. Clearly, they feel that discrimination against those who work 40 years is their working life, that they are then awaited by a church of 1500, 1600 kuna pensions. Although they, the vast majority do not know that only about 450 parliamentary pensions are currently in circulation and that the preferential pensions in the Republic of Croatia have more than 160,000 on various grounds. About who's talking and who's talking. In order not to be a populist so as to approach someone, I must say that it can and can be arranged in a way that satisfies exactly the way I've expressed two basics. One is an activity in the work of the Parliament, and the other is a work experience and all that one representative contributed to the Peace Fund and everything else in the Republic of Croatia and in his working life. I'm coming from the medical branch now, so I'd say, for example, nurse interns think they're being discriminated because their traineeship is free of charge in hospitals unlike doctors. The doctors think they're being discriminated against. Namely, and there is almost over, I would say almost a catch between different specialities, and all doctors at hospitals think they are discriminated against by doctors of general practice who have 2,000 heads of head, have far more pay than much I would say more responsible work specialists in hospitals that operate and decide on human lives. So, as the gentleman once again said, I quote it there are hidden discriminations in various ways regardless of the legal provisions that are positive, where everything is prescribed and where we think that everything is really best done and legally done the way it was supposed to be and yet it's not. The counter maids at the bookies they're working for that minivan we were talking about the other day if they report their boss's pregnancy getting fired. In order not to happen he goes to the doctor, takes sick leave and then he is on HZZO 7.8 months on the burden of the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Is that discrimination? Or the lagging behind of certain regions in the Republic of Croatia is a certain kind of discrimination. Not a personal, not a natural person, although the vast majority of natural persons in the region are affected by it, such as Slavonia and Baranja. Is that discrimination? Or hiring by party of discrimination? So it's about nepotism and clienteleism that I'm absolutely certain not to name now, last name and company in this country, and everyone knows that. Or is discrimination waiting, long-standing pending court proceedings? If so, we leave it for the assessment that the court also decides on discrimination and discrimination on this bill, then it will wait again. Then there is no point in actually this bill, although it is to say one progress in relation to the practice in the Republic of Croatia and to say one contribution to the further civility of the Republic of Croatia and how convenient it says here. Therefore, raising awareness of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in relation to preventing discrimination. This is very nicely said and it is the best that it is, in fact, what this law can contribute is therefore raising awareness of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in combating discrimination or other words about tolerance, about possible tolerance and about possible solidarity. I once spoke from this speaker about the fact that there is no law or consumer law, and there is no association that would protect, for example, interests or suppress discrimination against left-handed people. Even the SDP in its rule did not protect the left-handed in this regard against discrimination. Do you have a screw that spins the oil aside? Do you have a washing machine that has commands on the left side, a washing machine? Do you have a rifle that has a cap on the left side, a cap, a closing handle? Do you have one instrument or tool designed for left-handed people, starting with a medical profession, surgically and further, than left-handed ones have to adapt. In fact, it's also a quiet discrimination even though the left-handed have 10%. There are no products designated for left-handed people, nor the Consumers' Act, nor those who run the Consumers' Association, have they considered that they would potentially influence the adoption of such a proposal to combat discrimination, even left-handed people's work are left-handed. Someone here said that the application of this law could even lead to, Mrs. From, you said whether, that applying this law could lead to absurdity and indeed it is. At times, a joke on regionality or, as it says here, or minority membership may also be answered before the court or the public defender, which is absurd and could be contradictory of the rights of speech, expression, etc. So indeed, I admit that these are the high standards of one true European standard, one European country, one polite country, and I clearly support the adoption of such a bill. I'm just talking about what's not covered or what's not regulated and what can and should be watched, so this is not a sacred letter, it can remain a dead letter on paper unless we have all this in mind. It is clear that the law will contribute to the repression of discrimination and says raise public awareness. I think this is actually going to be the only one, which is to raise public awareness of the need to combat discriminatory action. I am convinced that the adoption of the proposal of this law, that it will not be able to correct all the wrong Drina, and especially those in the domain of social society that are most important to citizens, which is regulated by some other laws and we have here indications that in this wholeness or comprehensiveness are the elements of the Labour Act, but I think that what is listed here is just general, and not what the core is, the essence of the problem. There's some things I've been talking about. I don't think there's any reason why I shouldn't vote for the adoption of this proposal, but I'm saying, here's all these remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10258	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10259	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The club of the representatives of the HSS certainly supports the idea of adopting the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination because it certainly requires a single law to regulate the area. However, we also believe that this law, which has been proposed, needs to be made permanent changes that it is essentially unsettled and that the articles, individual articles of this law, can be interpreted in duplicate, which means that this law does not solve the area of discrimination, but is just opening up a new space for new discrimination. What is our opinion in the HSS is that the Croatian Parliament should pass laws that will be enforceable and which will be able to implement most because otherwise we bring most of them into breach or bring them into an uninvited position. For this reason I will not talk about all the forms of discrimination that exist, I think that the clubs before me have said, but I would suggest on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, Mr. Vice-President and Mr. Secretary-General that this law is back on track because I have information that you have responded and many NGOs, defense associations, that consumer associations have reacted and what my colleague mentioned before, so there is no full public debate on this law that may have led to or misunderstanding by the associations and us, and I allow it to be evaluated, but to be sure that we are passing a good law, it is our suggestion that this article should really be worked out, that we know exactly what the promoter in which article he thought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10260	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Mirjana Ferić-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10261	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, this law that's in front of us today and in the debate, I'd like it to be even more on the trail of one of the manuals that an NGO issued years ago, and somewhere, this kind of discrimination should actually be lifted. But even as it deserves our attention and we should look at it in this context. Personally, I would like to stress that it is very important for me that in this explanation as well as just saying in this law everything that is actually national anti-discrimination legislation, therefore the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which was adopted in 2002, the Labour Act 2003, on Gender Equality 2003, the same-sex communities in 2003, so also the Criminal Law, the Law on Civil Servants, but these first basic anti-discrimination laws should be observed were passed between 2000 and 2003 and, here today, is 2008 when we get a more comprehensive anti-discrimination law. However, it should be said that all reports written on any basis in the Republic of Croatia also referred to the events of the domain of discrimination. Of course, on different basiss in different times, but rather uniform and, here also in the discussion of minimum wage, we mentioned that actually one part of the relationship with employees in certain branches has anti-discrimination elements. I personally welcome and include the ECRI recommendations, so the European Commission against racism and intolerance, because it is precisely the ECRI's periodic reports, so every 3 years around it brings its country-specific report, refer to specific cases which, therefore, are covered by this law. For the illustration, we might not think, but the ECRI periodically reports discrimination in Sweden, for example, so we would be surprised what cases are being reported in that country. However, it is obvious that this law should, if we start to apply it like this, be in a sense of huge support in terms of education in the judicial system. Anything that is not acceptable to bring quickly, to bring in a way that is publicly published and that is just will remain a letter on paper and will not testify that an individual is actually a powerful, individual and individual that are powerful in relation to the power of the state, to the levers of the state, and this is precisely always the procedures in anti-discrimination relations to be witnessed. Some parts of the articles I'd say the following. The relationship of multiple discrimination, therefore repeated discrimination will be very difficult in the judiciary and should the judiciary be very well directed into these, regardless of what we emphasized may be a person who is discriminated against by sex or persons with disabilities. There's a whole series of elements that can get into it. This is one formulation that is not often mentioned in the directives or in other elements, i.e. the preconditions to which the law is referred but should also be considered in those basic items in Article 1 of the first Section where it is spoken, I will only come down to one point, the property situation. As a result of multiple discrimination and gender, take only the case of children at school who are not available today, a growing engagement of various associations who conduct additional education, which parents of weaker property cannot pay for their children. These children do not participate in such actions, these children are in some way on their way and progressing to what is called the same chance for all to be highly discriminated against. In addition to the education of judges that I mention in this context, I would say that there is still a big problem with that classic... weight of evidence. It's something that lawyers have to do very well. Article 14 concerning keeping records. We have one amendment here that needs to be accepted, I think, in any case, because it is important to keep records on gender-specific elements, given that this is also part of the national strategy in the ultimate effect, and also part of the reports that can be more specific and the measures that are being taken to be more specific. Then there are several other elements that should be mentioned, and that is the question of relations with groups and individuals. In the case of discrimination against groups, it should be asked what it means if a person discriminates in one institution. In one institution, let us take as this institution is the Croatian Parliament. It may be a person who discriminates against someone, but it is not the Croatian Parliament who discriminates. This is a very sensitive topic which will be passed through practice against legal persons and therefore institutions later. All the law provides is good, but we should always ask one question about such things. We pass the law because these phenomena are present in society. And since we actually act in society that one part of such a phenomenon does not occur, of course I will not be talking about the Labour Act and that domain, but intolerance, discrimination based on ethnicity or skin color. All of this is part of a democratic way of education, that is, education for democracy. So I think it would be very good to open a debate with all relevant ministries as much as our curricula actually predicts raising children for democracy as one fundamental, as the basis of actually democratic society. Because all of this comes post-festum and there's the law, of course, to sanction. But also to make assumptions that it doesn't happen is one long-term process and I believe that the only one is actually successful. It is good that there is a question of direct and indirect discrimination, because it, of course, includes these elements of multiple and, as it is said here, repeated discrimination. What I'd like to say in the end is that no matter what we can say to him, we can be in the end satisfied that it's the turn, I'm afraid one part of it is that some of them who advocated him today five years ago wouldn't advocate him, but here's the learning process where we look at and develop our society. However, in some cases, this law does not remove the need to pass laws from a broad and even wider spectrum of protection laws, and I think that this direction should be further worked out, and in any case, to develop what practice will prove insufficient, as the ombudsman and the arraignor or advocate for gender equality for children and persons with disabilities should be closely listened to, in fact, by democratic development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10262	Thank you. Dear Representative Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10263	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. If we better promote certain articles of this small law, there are barely thirty articles, we will see that it can only satisfy its title from both nomotechnical and implementing meaning and view. Namely, everyone likes this name of the Proposal of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. If we take a closer look at how much this law will fix the situation, or how much mess it's going to create, it's a serious question here. In medicine is the basic rule, that medics, thank God enough doctors here all the political colors, the basic rule is in the medicine primusest non-nocera. First of all, it doesn't hurt. This law damages itself because there is a disturbance in many laws. Is this law material? Is this law of procedural nature? It is obvious that this bill is both of them, because it has material provisions, but it has color and procedural provisions. But please, what procedural provisions? That violates the fundamental settings of the Law on Prosecution. And what was to be solved and completed in the Law of Parley Procedure, it was settled here. It's also inadmissible. It is also inadmissible because it is exclusively the Law on a litigation procedure that addresses the question of who may be party to the proceedings. That's what's going on here right now. This gives authority and extends the powers of the attorney-general, and so does the attorney general. This should be seen little in his domain and jurisdiction under jurisdiction. These shouldn't be the ambitions of this law. The ambitions of this law should be a fundamental postulate that laws must not be discriminated against above all, and we have laws that are highly discriminated against. Not only those who were passed ten and more years ago, but the law, the bill that we proposed yesterday, the day before yesterday, the gentlemen here discussed them, but fortunately we didn't vote, and I'll tell you what it was about. So I'm almost back on the nomotechnic and how this law was made. First of all, what is its exact content, so it is not known how it will be applied. It starts with this law providing protection. No law provides protection. It provides protection but must provide protection to institutions applying the law. It's an alphabet of nomotechnics at all. But it seems to be this law that seems to be some over the law around which the name itself is such that we don't have such power in which I agree that this is as if we didn't have the right to enter into a certain provision or the content of the provision and the way it was solved. Inadmissible, with such a low level, such a serious law. We haven't had that in a long time. The truth has been up. Tell me how and who will apply this. Article 4 states that discrimination within the meaning of this law will also be considered a failure, it is said of persons with disabilities. So whose fault is it? Well, the provision should be if it's an imperative norm that has its own criminal repercussion who misses people or who deny them. That's how it's written in law, not failure. Whose fault? To whom this failure applies, say where people with disabilities are prevented from participating in public and social life. So, pure abstraction. That should fix it. There's time, there's not many articles, but here are these serious remarks. Article 9(2), point 6 is therefore prohibited from discrimination in respect of the contract of premiums. So why doesn't the law change? So which insurance company is going to provide a person over 80 or 70 years? And what would the premium be? So, let's go back to what this law was supposed to contain. Obviously, the promoter is because it's not very simple, but it's supposed to be content. That, above all, laws are passed that must be absolutely in agreement with the Convention or the pact on the protection of human rights, or the international pact on civil and political rights, which right here is also called upon by the Proposer to it, which the former state has ratified and we have taken over. And the thought of the head of this law was supposed to be all persons equal to the law, having the right to no discrimination against equal protection of the law. But beyond that, it's also important. In this, the law should prohibit any discrimination, but there is not a word of it here. And how will this probation law and individual laws protect someone from discrimination when discrimination is incorporated into some laws? I'll tell you what the laws are, just a few laws, because it's a short time for everyone to count and let alone some other provisions of certain relatively good laws. The law on medically assisted insemination prevents women today from giving their cells. Men are allowed to do that. And this is where you shut up normally as something normal, and then we boast about this law, that law, and now the roof law of suppressing discrimination. Please give me a valid explanation. We've heard from the government some arguments that these are sensitive, please moral questions. If moral questions are sensitive, then let's put an end to that possibility and let's at least be consistent with this nonsense. These are serious questions, especially if we already affirm this topic and boast about it. Then at least we keep quiet about it. Furthermore, the Law on civil servants and tenants recently incorporated everything under the edigo, under the protection of whistles. That is exactly the kind of protection that has been abolished and is contrary to the Civil-Legal Convention on the Prevention of Corruption, which explicitly requires that the burden of proof and the evil intentions of the applicant is on the employer. And here we installed recently a month, two days ago exactly the opposite, that those whistlers who had so much courage will no longer whistle and point out because it is being thrown out not only persecuted but it is said that such a person will be away from the state service because the burden of proof is not on who he reported by the organization, or companies, the employer in general but on him. And he can't prove it. So we know how many obvious situations the court can't handle, but that doesn't mean that someone's reported something on purpose. It may not have been true what he reported but he had no evil intentions. That's another example. That's what we pointed to, but nothing to anyone. Here, now it's on the agenda and the Law on local officials and tenants is the same or similar situation. Did we discuss the Minimum Salary Act here? Is it said they are discriminated against workers and mainly refers to workers in the textile industry where they will have a lower minimum wage. It's not really a lame thing to do. And you should think about that, too. To prevent them from being removed. So, the fundamental law of this to find express forms of discrimination but also the hidden ones. It is not exactly a hidden way in the Family Relations Act or the Family Law that says that a woman is in debt, a woman must be on maternity leave and a man if he wants to. And that's explained that there's a college possibility left. And as long as there are disputes about such things, there's no serious will. True, here you are, Mr. Secretary of State, nodding your head because it's not yet coming to your senses that it's normal. ... But no, I don't mean to offend anyone, but I want to say it's necessary. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sorry, but I'm offended by that provision in law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He insults me and insults all women.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10264	Dear MPs, you have no reason to raise your voice or insult anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10265	I don't insult anyone, but they insult, and they hurt these provisions that discriminate against women. Just before or this morning, the Vice President said so. So she also complains that women live their family lives, that it prevents them from having a bigger engagement and social engagement, and we support and legalize such a situation which then directly discriminates. That's why I think, first of all, it is necessary to fix in the law what is given in the first place, that I cannot suspend the provisions that this law does not have the power to suspend the provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure but it has the power to disclose legal articles that discriminate primarily on persons by sex but also on political belief, and also on social status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10266	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you've come your own time. Let's move on. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10267	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I am especially looking forward today to discussing this law, and I look forward to the fact that here are all the fellow MPs who spoke before me particularly as the value of this law, in particular highlighted the provisions that speak of persons with disabilities, so two articles, one relating to reasonable adaptation and an article that speaks of multiple discrimination. I will briefly say at least more or less all colleagues here have repeated, but it is not against the fact that the area of discrimination for the Republic of Croatia is of particular importance, and one of the most important objectives of this law is to combat this discrimination that is emerging today in a series of social areas. The purpose of this law is to ensure the protection and promotion of equality as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, to create assumptions for equal opportunities and to regulate protection against discrimination based on race, ethnicity or colour of skin, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, membership in union, education, social status, marital or family status, age, health status, disability, genetic heritage, gender identity, expression of sexual orientation. I read it on purpose once again, it's never too bad to mention it again. It seems particularly important to me and particularly important to me that the Proposer regulated the failure of reasonable adaptation and multiple discrimination by this law. When we talk about reasonable adaptation, it is within the meaning of this law to allow disabled persons to use publicly available resources in accordance with their capabilities, participate in public social life, have access to the workplace and the right working conditions, adapt infrastructure and space, use of equipment without being an disproportionate burden for those who are obliged to make it possible. We are all aware that everything that needs to be adapted in the Republic of Croatia to people with disabilities goes in some segments and very slowly, because unfortunately we have to redecorate some buildings that are old and for which special permits should be sought. Somewhere we're extremely pleased with the adjustment. I just have to point out here that the promoter has really taken care of people with disabilities, when he put this into law, although this government has already adapted more than 25 cities in the Republic of Croatia to the project. Furthermore, when we talk about multiple discrimination, it is important to note that discrimination can take place on a number of grounds. This is a common case, i.e. a case where one of the forms of discrimination remains undetected. I have to say here that people with disabilities, especially women with disabilities, are most often exposed to this multiple discrimination. Often, because they are women, and then because they are women with disabilities, and also from several members and their family and other persons, etc. An independent anti-discrimination body will be the Office of the Attorney General, with a special Ombudsman in the Republic of Croatia, such as the Advocates for Gender Equality, the Ombudsman for Children, and we soon hope that when this law comes into force and the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities will be able to comply with the provisions of this law relating to their jurisdiction. In order to make it possible to implement this law as best as possible in practice, detailed provisions have been developed which provide for the submission of different types of action in order to protect victims of discrimination. I'm going to point out here for a little while that it's extremely important that the roofing is kind of something that I say is an organization of a public defender, and everyone else is also acting in accordance with this law. I'll just tell you that here's a few months ago where the Republic of Austria participated, together with us from the Republic of Croatia, and on this topic of the adoption of the Law on Discrimination in the Republic of Croatia, we heard the experiences of people from Austria, when it comes to persons with disabilities as to how those discrimination problems solve. When one of the people with disabilities there reports that he is being discriminated against, he will first contact his attorney, so to the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. The Ombudsman then acts in a way that invites the person or state institution who has committed any kind of discrimination and is trying to solve the problem peacefully first. I have to tell you that we all thought it was simply impossible, that it was a delay, that something like that didn't bring results, but our colleagues in Austria quickly reassured us, and they said that it was a reduced trial, so a reduced lecture on lawsuits in court, and that such a way of handling came to the very observed results. It is also important to note here that the implementation of this law will be supported by a series of activities such as the recruitment of new employees within the Office of the Public Prosecutor and the Education of Employees, which is extremely important in the state bodies, the bodies of the local self-government units, the education of judges who will be tried by lawsuits, the printing of statistical forms for the monitoring of discrimination as well as the promotion of this law. This seems extremely important to me, the promotion of this law. By promoting this Law, we will raise awareness of citizens that as little or as no discrimination as possible, even those who will be on the border would or would not believe that they will think about it. My opinion is that the law will certainly contribute to the repression of discrimination, and exactly what I said earlier that it will raise public awareness of the necessity to combat discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10268	Thank you. Honorable representative Branko Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10269	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Although we like to say that we live in a modern and fast-developed world, it is amazing how some negative forms of behavior are repeated in a more perfided or less visible way. Such a case is discrimination at the workplace that promotes prejudice and stereotypes. Discrimination is a word that everyone condemns, so it is more understandable that in various ways we are subject to its influence to a greater or lesser extent. Nevertheless, we cannot say that we do not learn from our mistakes because at the same time discrimination and prejudice are in decline. It is a common case of discrimination that women are excluded from their choice during employment because of their marital status and because of age, regardless of their expertise, they met all the conditions required. By doing so, they are forced to accept less attractive and less paid jobs. These are really cases that happen everywhere. It is also rare that the advantage of employment has younger, hotter women. There are many other forms of discrimination at work, and the most frequently mentioned are those for people with developmental difficulties, according to persons of different sexual orientation, according to members of certain nations, minorities. Many examples of discrimination in the workplace in Croatia are not lacking. A middle-aged lady in charge of the state-owned company recently received a warning from an employer saying that among other things her excessive weight is a reason why she is not doing her job well enough. Such similar cases have been reported to the "Mobbing" association that is fighting workplace abuse could become the case under this new anti-discrimination law. The list is long, and the consequences are always negative. Discrimination with stereotypes and prejudice has been shown to affect blood pressure and may reduce business efficiency. The result is also a change in behaviour and social perception. This applies to each but especially to women and members of minority national groups because there are the most stereotypes on them. It is difficult that stereotypes and prejudices are deeply embedded in each of us because they are usually learned and accepted as a child. Although we do know that no one is immune to them, it is obvious that they can be reduced with effort and disclosure. The simplest thing is to use empathy to the members of another group or other words to try to look around and see what happens from their position. The new Law on Discrimination of Discrimination is related to the existing provisions of the Constitution and will also introduce penalties for discrimination based on physical appearance, gender identity and genetic heritage. Namely, DNA analysis is now possible to detect someone’s genetic disorders and predispositions for certain diseases such as some types of cancer. In the next few years, DNA tests will be increasingly available and cheaper. Already today, insurance companies in some countries are trying to use genetic testing in determining the insurance premium. It is easy to imagine what the world could be like if the discrimination based on genetic heritage was allowed even though such discrimination was already prohibited by the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, which took effect in Croatia in 2004. Discrimination by identity refers, among other things, to transgender persons. The identity of transgenders deviates from the generally accepted male female identity. If a person is identified differently from his sex or is not born and wants to be treated, recognized and named according to his or her birth identity, he or she is generally disabled and must hide it. In our experience, people who decide to change their sex in Croatia usually have to change their jobs, and sometimes leave the country. Discrimination on gender expression may, however, refer to a much wider population. The issue of discrimination in physical appearance is particularly interesting, which could refer to people of excessive weight and to a number of other serious cases of discrimination. For example, who in court can prove that an employer employs only handsome employees. Despite the fact that Croatia has mostly brought national law into line with European discrimination by the end of 2007 there has been no judicial ruling in the field of discrimination. Croatia has a series of laws with anti-discrimination provisions such as the Law on Labour or Gender Equality, and this law that would have the power of the Constitutional Law should strengthen the compliance of existing laws. Although citizens have so far protected themselves from discrimination through 6 anti-discrimination laws for the first time, it has for the first time made an extremely broad provision for the protection of citizens because it covers all aspects of society. The legal text defines the basics of discrimination and for the first time multiple discrimination. In practice, discrimination has been shown to occur very often on a number of basis, for example, in disabled women, and it is common that one form of discrimination remains undetected. The future Law on Discrimination of Discrimination also defines repeated discrimination which, as well as multiple or longer-looking, will be considered to be a more difficult form of discrimination. For the first time, it is also defined that incentive discrimination is considered discrimination. And finally, to conclude different types of discrimination although not always deliberately reducing people's chances of life. It is therefore to welcome the adoption of such a law in order to minimise any form of discriminatory behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10270	Thank you. Dear Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10271	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Madam Representatives, and the gentlemen of the MPs before us are therefore the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. The law that we are also harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation. In any case, one law that is very complex in the development of Croatian society and in many areas of life. The facts suggest that this Law covers mental circuits that are most difficult to change and what cannot always be solved before a court, so that it seems two-stage or I don't know what to call it that forms of discrimination can be sanctioned either in a court or through a public defender where it can also be smoothed under quotes of a dispute, or where it can be regained and otherwise solved. I think it's useful because this law will show it's a practice, a series of experiences that are just waiting for us, and we'll be able to assess how time goes by. I've taken some laws here that have already affected this complex matter, so the proposer has a lot of complex work to do here to make the final proposal for this law. Because our legislation already knows the forms where discrimination is sanctioned, such as the Labour Act, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on the Same Sexual Communities, the Criminal Law, the Law on Civil Service, the Law on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the National Programme of the Strategy. When you invest in all these documents you find the exact articles that regulate this matter. This means that, even now, these cases are being handled, so Article 21. The law on the same sex communities speaks very precisely about the ban on discrimination, so we already have in practice and certain experiences. I would also like to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is preparing a National Strategy to combat discrimination, and this is exactly what needs to be pointed out here that this practice, this experience and very complex matter, which is likely to take place in various areas through the measures of the Government of the National Strategy will be able to eradicate where it appears. When I mentioned before mentality, I want to say once again some kinds of discrimination almost people don't even recognize, don't feel, haven't regained enough awareness. That was years ago. That was a lot to talk about. I would also like to say that the document, which is in front of us, includes the European Union documents, but also the United Nations documents, the Council of Europe documents, and I even see that the case-law of the European Community, the practice of the European Court of Justice, the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, has been used, so that certain experiences of how to eradicate an act considered discriminatory. I also understand those criticisms, and when and in the debate, it has been and is often heard when there are a lot of vague facts or definitions such as the wrong idea of discrimination occurs by understanding one of the persons A or B of the wrong idea. It's also possible to calculate. I expect here that the case-law and the work of the Ombudsman will show in its practice what possible solutions can be done in all these different areas. I am also personally deeply convinced that raising awareness without understanding this complex action among citizens, and in many ways it will be very difficult to rule out these forms. I would like to say that in various areas we have our own experiences and we see that when more light is cast on some of the actions that are not socially justified that people then avoid and move from day to day practice such treatment. I would also like to say that this law, although it is quite short, refers to a wide scope of application. Both in the field of work and working conditions, education, science, sport, social security including social care, pension and health insurance, and unemployment insurance. Then to the field of health care, justice and administration, housing, public information and media, access to goods and services, and the provision of the same, membership and activities in trade unions, civil society organisations, political parties or any other organisation, participation in cultural, artistic creation. You really see how this is an area where it's possible to be unequal, because it's still the base and the foundation of what leads to fighting discrimination, that the possibility of equal chances is what makes it possible for everyone. It seems to me that precisely because of this complex application and anti-discrimination law that we have never had in this form should be released in both case-law and various other experiences that Croatian society will follow and will be able to react to this matter which is neither simple nor easy, and always has to be discussed, it is also the role of the attorney general to inform and the media, to inform this House about its knowledge, about discrimination so that it can also act in this way. It seems to me that the possibilities of action received by the Ombudsman, so institutional action may be the one that will allow the problems to be resolved rapidly if they occur, so that the Ombudsman in the framework of his work has the following: receipt of the registration of all natural and legal persons related to the dissident. It shall provide the natural and legal persons who have filed a complaint for discrimination with the necessary information on their rights and obligations, as well as on the possibility of judicial and other protection. Where a court case is not initiated, it shall examine individual applications and take the actions of its jurisdiction necessary to remove discrimination and protect the rights of the discriminated person. This seems very important to me. You should give a chance to eradicate it, give it a chance to prevent it if you don't have to go to court because it's about very sensitive human relationships and that feeling. Because the wrong idea is to feel more than anything else, and that's something that's most important to evaluate. It is the most subtle, and it guarantees and speaks of responsibility amongst all of us in a society that we must bear with respect, trust, responsibility so that, it seems to me that these powers and these extensions received by this law are likely to increase the number of people who will have to work on this, etc. Obviously, I don't have enough time to say everything I've prepared myself and what I believe in this law, but I would like to say something else that I still hold very important, and these are infrequent provisions that are very complex and it seems to me that they are so elaborate and their height is usually going from 5 thousand kuna to 30, 40 but even up to 300 thousand kuna, so all these forms of possible situations here are described. Thus, for the infringement referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, a legal person will be punished with a fine of as much as 30 thousand to 300 thousand kuna, so that these provisions also allow the seriousness of the implementation of anti-corruption rights possibilities in the Republic of Croatia. So I will personally uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10272	Thank you. Honorable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10273	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So there is no dignity that would not melt in pain, said Jean Paul Sartre because we have all been exposed once in our lives to try to discredit us in one way or another, but the worst thing is when such attempts happen, or it's even worse when they repeat themselves, especially when they're tied to a workplace where we should professionally give a maximum of ourselves and where we expect equal terms of value to ability and effect. I therefore believe that the value of the proposed law is that it fully regulates the problem of combating discrimination. As we know, so far, the anti-discrimination area at national level has been governed by a whole series of regulations. For example, the Law on Labour, Gender Equality, Penal Code, and many other regulations that I do not now fit them. The proposed law on the prevention of discrimination will certainly enable citizens to better manage to seek protection of their rights, especially in the field of labour and employment, social security, education and the like. It is being strengthened, as has already been pointed out here several times by the Ombudsman in order to combat discrimination, and prescribed penalties ranging from a thousand to 350 thousand kuna for a legal person are not negligible. The fact is that women today, unfortunately, are more discriminated against than men, especially in the labour market. Sexual harassment or the application of unequal criteria in a competition to fill the same job are just some of the, unfortunately, frequent examples that happen to us in practice. Studies conducted by the Office for Gender Equality of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as trade unions, have produced devastating results in favour of women in the field of labour, employment and social security. Statistics are inexorable although in Croatia women account for 51.8% of the population, male salaries for the same jobs are higher by approximately 13%, according to economic institute data. Furthermore, the total percentage of unemployed women account for an infamous 61.2%, and it is even more worrying that the percentage of women's unemployment per year is growing. So we're in '99. In 2002, women took up about 52.5%, and then in 2002 that percentage increased to 54.6%, 2005. 59% and now we've reached 61.2% of women's share in the total number of unemployed. The most typical forms of discrimination appear during employment. In some areas 73.3% of cases, women, normally those surveys and studies, have expressed that these employment-receiving questions are inappropriate and even offensive in terms of employment. Then, the problem is, normally, in extending the work contract where about 53.3% of women are feeling discriminatory because, unfortunately, this employment contract is harder for them to extend or under certain conditions. The fact that the biggest discrimination takes place in the field of the gray economy is that it means working on a black, or field of work whose worker is in advance condemned to the mercy or mercy of his employer is not surprising, and that data was logically expected to be the biggest discrimination in this field of grey economy. And it's precisely in the activities of catering, trade, construction in small and medium-sized enterprises. However, it is interesting that, regardless of the exposure to various forms of discrimination, most of these subjects would prefer the head of the male rather than the wife. However, there is no need to ignore the fact that we have more and more women entering the management area lately and that women are currently operating in Croatia with over 273 companies, i.e. somewhere with 16 billion euros, which is 15% higher than the previous year. It means that more and more women are getting into that area of business. It is important to note that the proposed Law on Discrimination of Discrimination regulates and protects against multiple discrimination, for example, women with disabilities, and that was also the mentions here that were multiplely discriminated, so since it was already about this word, I do not want to repeat myself. Therefore, I believe that this proposed law will finally effectively end those who, by taking advantage of their position and function, discriminate against other persons, with the consistent implementation of its criminal provisions and the higher powers of the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10274	Thank you. Dear Representative Bruno Kurelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10275	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I guess when this bill is passed, the dice will be put together, so at least today I got the impression when you discussed this topic. I guess there will be a separate single law that should protect the people of this country from discrimination in all areas of life. Our colleagues and colleagues again have a law to make Croatian society stronger by its comprehensiveness. If we analyze the quality of implementation, I repeat the quality of the implementation of the national anti-discrimination laws so far by segments as it has been, this unifying law itself will not bring anything new in my opinion unless it is implemented. According to our good practice on page 8 of this proposal, I quote: "As the area of discrimination for the Republic of Croatia is already highlighted, it is of particular importance that the proposal for a law introduces discriminatory grounds that exceed international standards in this area." That's what we always put into laws about. I'm not a pessimist by nature, but with not so few years behind me, a respected colleague and colleagues, I've had some life experience that might look just like this. My people, I know us. We also have confirmation of this in the 2007 Public Attorney's Report, which can't come to the turn for discussion, I guess, and because the content is so promising that we can all sleep together peacefully. And on page 9 of this proposal, the law states that a roof independent anti-discrimination body will be the Attorney General. And that's why I feel the need to warn myself of some events that are every day biting the foundations of this country. Every project and development project of Croatian society, if we have it at all, should have a goal. Then that goal should result in people who are free within the free state. I'm just thinking like I said. Who are these people? These are colleagues and fellow citizens of this beautiful ours, perhaps some future citizens. These citizens should live on their work. I say live so we can decide freely. Because you see colleagues and colleagues, I think many forms of discrimination find its foothold in social discrimination. And now, at this moment, Croatia needs this very form of discrimination, with the disputable consequences for this society as a whole. This is not about poverty where citizens are hungry for bread. For those of you who think I wanted an early birdie where everyone would have the same thing, they're wrong. There's no social justice, there's no fair distribution, and every day it becomes the cancer of this society. As much as you think I'm using demagogue flossules here, you're wrong. The environment in which we live is hot from the above knowledge. And I therefore strongly recommend a wiser and fairer lead this country regardless of party colors. Those who do not today do not need to feel less valuable. They do not need to be constantly reminded to be grateful for the donation, for their sweat is often embedded in that donorry. In this society, let us be honest, we have often symposiums, conferences on sex, racial and personal discrimination. But my colleagues and colleagues, I say again, we rarely talk about social discrimination, and I think that we often keep it quiet and that almost all forms of discrimination are born out of it, as I said before. Finally, social exclusion is created as a process in which individual groups are systematically decommissioned, placed on the margins of society. In the county from which I come, the Carlovac County 10% of the population can be considered socially excluded by relevant analyses. These days we've been talking about the minimal, the minimum wage. Well esteemed gentlemen, in this law, there is a basis for social discrimination against workers in the field of textile and leather groups. This was also cited by colleague Vac and colleague Ingrid Anticevic. Daily cotton industry worker in Long Resa, daily worker "Dalmatinka Nova" just modeled for studying social discrimination. That's where we live. Do you remember a colleague and colleague of the school's high school booklet, the mandatory school booklet "Zola's Germinal". I guess so. I'm gonna finish up with the old Latin saying, "Poority is tolerable if there's no shame with it." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10276	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10277	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague presented a whole series of incorrect allegations apparently not understanding the concept of discrimination. The first false quote. The state discriminates against the citizens. That's not true. The state is now passing, proposing a Law on Discussing Discrimination. So the state does not discriminate against them but has just made every effort and all the strength to pass the Law on the repression of discrimination against our citizens, not to be discriminated against by the state. It's incorrect and next. There's no social justice. According to all the comparative characteristics, Croatia is one of the most social states when we talk about transition countries despite the 10 years of war. And the third incorrect allegation, Croatia is worth social form of discrimination. The arrow's pointed at the state again. That's not true either. Because it is those who are the poorest through the union that have a leverage in the GSV with which they influence all the laws they make, that this government is proposing and bringing this Parliament. Therefore, we cannot talk about discrimination against the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10278	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. How am I supposed to call this law "I'm gonna sue you all"? Did I say that right? I guess I did. So the Zagorci say, but they all kind of start with quotes and so would I, says Walter, "I don't agree with your opinion, but I'll fight for your right to say it for the rest of my life," but if we're really a state that shuts down or doesn't shut down now I won't be polymising with Mr Hebrang, I'd just tell him to try 270 kunas from 2000 to now, so I'd ask him if it's social inclusion or exclusion. But let's move on. However, I will now rely on actually... an example of a direct discrimination here in the assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleague Lukacic and I can't do this same pay phone when we speak on behalf of the club. In countries that have representatives in wheelchairs, speakers are so adapted to the system that the pay phone can be raised and lowered. Also, my colleague Lukačić and I use one toilet and all the other MPs as part of the men's room or as part of the ladies' toilet. Well, that's the same form of discrimination. However, it is an easier form than what is happening in our society. Otherwise, I join all those who have expressed satisfaction with the adoption of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. In particular, I would stress the good co-operation of the human rights and civil society offices and also personal cooperation when it comes to areas that directly or indirectly involve a group of people with disabilities. The adoption of this law is a major step in identifying all forms of discrimination and sanctioning them. But it's not just a good principle law if it's not followed by all the institutions. Then it's just a set of good wishes. The law also provides for funds for the education of judges to handle the proceedings in the mentioned disputes, but since it is a Croatian judiciary, let me express my doubts because until today, as far as I know, there was no judgment due to discrimination on any basis. I'd be terribly sorry if the attorney general's office was overcrowded and served as a place where people would complain. The Ombudsman then makes a good report, this report comes to the Parliament's agenda and then awaits the government's opinion indefinitely for a long time. Here, we're still waiting for him. How will it be in 2010 when many cases of discrimination sanctioned by this law are shown in that report. I would go back to a topic that interests me personally, which is persons with disabilities and violations of their human rights in all areas. No matter how good our intentions are, no matter how much we boast that the Republic of Croatia has signed among the first conventions, the fact is that even now we can't rely on any single law that protects the rights of persons with disabilities. Before the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination was passed, we had provisions in the Labour Act, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment and others, i.e. in all areas where the rights of persons with disabilities should be protected in a special way. Then, the National Strategy in equating opportunities for people with disabilities. The fact is that rights have been systematically violated, people with disabilities are systematically placed in an unfavourable position and no one has responded to this, although we have provisions that we can call upon either to talk about education, employment, work, rehabilitation, rights to orthopaedic aids and others. Even within the persons with disabilities, groups of disabled civilians have been discriminated against compared to wartime military people. But things go to absurd. The rights on the basis of disability vary depending on whether persons with disabilities are executed on the basis of a pension insurance system or a welfare system. So we do not go from disability as conditions of exercise of rights, but depends on which system you are seduced. Children with disabilities who are in the regular education system are not equally treated as children located in institutions so that after school, someone who graduated from school at the Dubrava Centre is not equally treated as a child who was involved in the regular education system. The cases of discrimination against persons with disabilities are Pandora's box, which unfortunately we'll have to face. I hope that this law, unlike all others, on the basis of which persons with disabilities could demand their rights to function and that they will indeed have to address the courts with all cases in which they are discriminated. I wonder how to prove discrimination when we have discrimination when it comes to people with disabilities and no one reacts when rights are systematically broken and ignored. When and how many times the rights of disabled persons have been violated. For example, the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund. How many people with disabilities are employed by these criteria? How many institutions are not adapted and should have already been, so by the end of last year, under the Construction Act or the Accessibility Regulation. On one side of the "Accessive Croatia" project, therefore completely unnecessary. Why a project if there's a law. Inclusive education. The existing anti-discrimination laws why they don't go through, if anyone was responsible for it. The third generation of human rights has already come to life and we still don't have a plate on who these people are with the most severe disability. The case law must recognise discrimination. I hope we get it here, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10280	Thank you. Dear Representative Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10281	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of this presentation today, I would like to say that I welcome the adoption of this Law on Disclosure of Discrimination, because the discrimination to which this law applies today in this House is one of the constitutional categories, more specifically determining protection and promoting equality as the highest values of constitutional order in the Republic of Croatia. This law also creates assumptions for the achievement of equal opportunities and regulates the protection against discrimination and as it says in this law from the law based on race, hence assumptions based on race, ethnicity or sex, language, religion, political and other beliefs, national or social origin, property, education, genetic heritage, disability as today's distinguished colleagues spoke, etc. Since there are several regulations in the Republic of Croatia that include in their content an anti-discrimination provision from the Labour Act to the Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Yet so far, the Republic of Croatia has not had a complete roof law that would in a unique way regulate discrimination issues. So today, on our benches and in front of our responsibility, we have this law which is important to note in accordance with European legislation and which, if we adopt it in the parliamentary procedure, will take effect in early 2009. The law provides for three types of lawsuits, which we have already talked about today, which will be possible for victims of discrimination, but also for whistles, and these are cases for the determination of discrimination, for the elimination of discrimination and for the compensation of immaterial damage to discrimination. As already stated today by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister Mrs Kosor, this is the first roof law of the Republic of Croatia to combat discrimination, although all of these are therefore proposed anti-discrimination measures in other laws. Through the process of harmonising legislation with international standards as well as active cooperation with international bodies, as well as reforms implemented in the field of national legislation, I believe that it is particularly highlighted and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has started to develop a National Strategy for Discrimination and this is based on the UN's Durbman Declaration. I believe that this strategy will further sensitise the situation assessment, but also act through the proposal for measures to combat discriminatory behaviour, of course with a special feeling of sensitive social groups. This law applies, of course, to the conduct of all state bodies and bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government as set out in the national strategy, as well as bodies with public authority and to the conduct of all legal and natural persons. I would like to point out that the suppression of discrimination is of particular importance for the EU's accession and is horizontally linked to several negotiating chapters, and is at a high level of priorities covered by the political criteria for full membership. In this case, when it comes to social policy and employment, it has already been assessed in the analytical review that there are very good sectoral processes that have taken over the legal gains of the European Union, but that there are many areas that do not treat all possible grounds of discrimination and all relevant areas such as the education sector, as advocate Setic spoke about. Most of the difficulty, however, I think that in hiring women over 40 years of age and men over 45 years of age are present in discrimination. Women are women as regards unemployment in each age category more represented than men and face discrimination against sex and family status with age discrimination. However, today, I, too, would like to point out in this presentation a statement already discussed in the previous debate by Commissioner Kunst, which is that women are discriminated against on the labour market and that this very discrimination process is already beginning in employment. So you don't think it's my subjective attitude I'm pointing out that this claim recently has also a scientific-empirical certificate. It is an experiential study called identification of women's discrimination standards in employment which was conducted in October last year by the Government's Office for Gender Equality in cooperation with the Croatian Employment Service and scientists from the Department of Sociology of the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb. The results of the survey show that more than 48% of women met employment ads in which sex is mentioned as one of the conditions of getting a job, and 36% of them came across ads that did not indicate that persons of both sexes could be contacted for their workplace as prescribed under the Labour Act. In both cases of advertising it should therefore be recalled that it is a multiple violation of the provisions of the anti-discrimination law, as well as the Law on Gender Equality. I believe the discrimination on the labour market is one of the strongest indicators of general discrimination against women in society. It is particularly alarming that most women are long-term unemployed and 35% between one and five years, and about 15% from 5 to 8 years. Even 23% of jobless subjects have been out of work for over 8 years. Answering the question of how they see their chances of getting a job, more than 70% of respondents rated small or extremely small. The unemployed women in Croatia are also poor, the vast majority of them live about 67% in households whose incomes are up to 5,000 kuna, significantly less than the price of a union basket for a four-member family. Long unemployment of women is much more common in Lika, Primorje, my Dalmatia and Slavonia than in Zagreb and northern Croatia. It has also been observed that employers are even more discriminatory by gender than potential employees by age. On the question of whether they met with employment ads mentioning age-limits as one of the conditions, about 69% of respondents were confirmed. And what women look like when trying to hire water with Croatian employers and employers, in particular, are illustrating the following data, which is that 62% of respondents say they were asked a question about marital status and number of children, about 38% had to answer the potential employer’s intention to give birth and how the family plans, about 20% answered other questions in private life, and the data that is particularly alarming is that 5.6% of women studied in this study were fired because of their pregnancy. The unemployed women of Croatia are aware of the inequality of women's position in Croatia and the vast majority think that women do not have equal status in society or equal employment opportunities, and that they do not have equal opportunities to achieve their rights, nor the same benefit from the results of the work achieved. I'm going to list some quotes from the employment ad. The synthesisms I encountered were electroinstallers, independent for permanent working relationships, up to 35 years old or younger female for working at a coffee bar or looking for young, communicative people. These people regularly do nothing on our labour market. It is therefore evident that, apart from gender discrimination and age discrimination, she has taken the bait. This problem is faced with all the countries of the world, so it may not be bad to imitate and comply with this law and to other people’s experiences. In our country, direct and indirect discrimination is prohibited for a person seeking employment and for a person who is employed on the basis of age and how I found it in accordance with Article 2. The labour law. The overall level of unemployment in Croatia certainly affects discrimination in employment according to various criteria, but it is most common in gender and by age. Unfortunately, more than 130,000 people over 40 in Croatia are unemployed. Since the Labour Act explicitly prohibits any discrimination, employers should create ads in accordance with the above, because otherwise such advertisements should not even be published. In doing so, it is very important, and I see that this is foreseen under the National Strategy as the basis of this law that we are discussing today. It is therefore important to direct the employer to the fact that age, gender or appearance, which is often the case, is not important for doing business, but clearly cannot affect their preferences and the final choice of employers. The issue of age discrimination in the European Union which, as I have cited and currently in our country, has come to life more strongly these days and across other continents after the UK introduced the first law to regulate anti-discrimination based on age, however, would take too long. I see my time is about to end, so I'll just say that laws can help change attitudes, only if they are combined, as in this case with the education of employers and other labour market participants aimed at the equality of older workers Therefore, given the national strategy, I point out once again that the adoption of this law is a concrete amendment and, of course, I will support the adoption of the law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10282	Thank you. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Discrimination from the law. As some laws very rarely encourage discrimination, I doubt that some law can prevent discrimination and even less eradicate it. There's little or no such laws as discrimination, because then they'd be some kind of racial law. Where it happens and how it happens in the practice of discrimination. It happens through some law enforcement. The letter of the law is implemented, but the spirit of the Constitution that speaks of the equality of citizens is not respected. Non-discriminatory behavior is actually one state of consciousness, the state of consciousness of being different, the other and different, which is usually a minority of equal value. A society without discrimination would be a society of equal odds, and now let's ask ourselves what kind of society this is. We can write in this law that discrimination against property is forbidden, and for example, we have scholarships. So does everyone have the same chance when scholarships are introduced? They don't. Whoever has the money to pay their tuition will be educated. Whoever doesn't, he doesn't have the same chance. We can write here that discrimination is forbidden on a national basis, and here we have witnessed, we have had the choice of constitutional judges, candidates or candidates of the national, Serbian national minority despite Professor Pupovac here protesting for a pay phone because of this way of electing judges of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court did not elect a representative of the national minority. We can write here that there is no discrimination based on political belief, and here recently at this session of the Parliament, with all the important national bodies, people have been elected, so the Constitutional Court in this Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, in the National Council for the Prevention of Corruption, has been elected by the political criteria of the political majority, despite the fact that civil society associations have proposed others, despite what the profession has said otherwise. Did everyone have the same chances there? No, and it was all by law, it was all by procedure. And discrimination was there in action, here in this House. You know, non-discriminatory behavior is always respecting the minority regardless of which minority it is. Whether it's a national minority, racial, sexual, political, health care. It's a relationship between the majority and the minority. It is impossible to prescribe this by law or by some other act, for example, by the Rules of Procedure of our Parliament, impossible. If, for example, the President of the Parliament has no built-in sense of non-discriminatory behaviour. If, for example, he treats MPs differently from MPs of the parliamentary minority. If it regularly commentes on each presentation of parliamentary minority representatives. Unless the representatives of the parliamentary minority are given a club session when requested. You know, we can support someone, but “a cat is not worth learning to swim. ” The cat's afraid of water. She can't handle water. So it's a state of consciousness. Discrimination should become a disgrace. In order for any discriminatory behavior, regardless of the law, to become a disgrace, then we could say that we encourage the development of a non-discriminatory society. I've got an amendment here that's been divided into benches. It's proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club. He suggests that the draft law in Article 1 reject the words of gender identity and expression. So discrimination by identity would be allowed. What's a birth certificate? They're transsexuals. They're very few. They're a minority. The relationship between the majority and the minority implies, for example, that because someone is a member of the parliamentary minority does not throw out of the bench when speaking, the parliamentary majority does not throw out the bench when speaking to a representative of the parliamentary minority. After all, it also comes from home rearing. But that's what we're talking about here, discrimination against the minority. So when an amendment appears that the birth identity wants to get kicked out of this law, then it actually means that we act discriminatoryly towards transgenders. That's the state of consciousness I'm talking about, that state of consciousness. It won't be settled by law and can't be solved, and especially by a roof law that would want to solve all the issues, so it doesn't solve any of them. I think this law is working wrong. It's brought first by emergency procedure. It's marked P.Z.E. I guess that's why it's an emergency procedure. Well, that's the law, and now he's turned out to be something like too much of a declaration, too long a declaration or too short a law. Well, at the very least, you should bring it in in two readings, because what's left of it is a pretty name. It's a really nice name and now that P.Z.E. tag. And his name will stand for him to be voted out, and he's not really getting rid of anything. You see, a lot of things haven't been solved here. Now let's go through the articles from the beginning. Article 2 we have direct discrimination and indirect discrimination, but we do not see whether they are legally equated. We don't see that through criminal provisions. Whether indirect discrimination will be punished as direct or not at all punishable, or it has been infused to make it look better. Well, then we have harassment, but we have ordinary harassment and sexual harassment. For sexual harassment, Article 26 provides for a criminal provision, but for ordinary harassment it is not. So we can harass someone about sex, faith, language, I don't know what's wrong with sex. I'm sorry, but not for sex, and then it won't be punishable because it's not in criminal terms. Then look at people with disabilities. It states that discrimination will also be considered a failure to allow disabled persons the conditions of adapting infrastructure and space by using equipment and in other ways which is not an disproportionate burden for those who are obliged to do so. So what's he gonna say now? Well, I don't have the money to make that approach. No, I can't. And it will be exculpated from the provisions of this Law. But it means it's one general provision and we'll release it immediately in the next, about whether or not you know the Secretary of State. You have at the Department of Health and Social Services. You have an informer with a disabled person in a wheelchair who's been told he's going to work at home because I can't get him a job as a suitable disabled person. Check with the minister. There are stupid provisions. Area of application. For example, education... science and sports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how about sports? Well, look, there are male and female teams. Well, there's a genetic legacy. Jokey's got to be small, you big basketball player. It's some kind of genetic heritage. So where do you think you're going with sports? Well right about sports being, sport would have to be exceptional in this positive sense. Well, then you have access to goods and services and to provide them. So who, the tailor, is providing you with services, and now someone will come and watch out for discrimination in property. And this one provides department sewing services. It's inconclusive. It's simply inconclusive. It's so conveniently written, let it write, but it doesn't really mean anything. Well, then you have art creation. So what's to prevent sexual discrimination in artistic creation now, and we have actors and actresses for example. So what's a man going to say now, or a woman going to claim to be discriminated against because she didn't get a man's role, what? No, it's not. It just doesn't belong here. It just doesn't belong. In criminal terms, you have discrimination in criminal provisions because you pay attention when someone breaks this law and works in the civil service, then they will pay 5 to 30 thousand kuna. And if he is, if he is a craftsman, then he will pay from 10 to 200 thousand kuna. So why is the craftsman now discriminated against this in the civil service? He will pay a greater penalty by all criminal provisions. So why are you now discriminating the craftsman in the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination? So look, this would be the smartest thing to pull out of an emergency procedure. Consider once again that since we already have a law with such a beautiful name that at least it has some content. A little more meaningful than the one that writes there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10284	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Frana Matušić... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague is incorrect, and I would say, in a tenor and malicious manner, that we have made some decisions in this assembly that were discriminatory to those they referred to. So he mentioned the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, so he mentioned the choice of persons in certain bodies of the commission we had recently in the Assembly, where he allegedly had their own proposal and had their own proposal and we didn't respect it. That's how we discriminated against them. In fact, this is completely incorrect, tenorous and malicious because the high standards we have introduced in Croatia give us the right to say that we respect the rights of national minorities in a maximum way, and as far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, we do not have an obligation for a representative of national minorities to sit as judge of the Constitutional Court. This is therefore not an obligation stemming from this Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Read this Law and see why? The second thing you mentioned was the amendment given by the Croatian Democratic Community and it says that the words of birth identity and expression are deleted. You gave your interpretation. The right interpretation given by the HDZ itself which reads: "The terms of gender identity, expression are not mentioned in the directives of the European Union nor scientifically defined and as such are superfluous in terms of the interpretation of the purpose of this law." So be at least so correct so when you quote someone, then quote them in the right sense and in the spirit of what he wanted to say and not on such malice... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I think you're the best witness. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Every day and about your education. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10286	We continue with an individual debate, the distinguished representative Šemso Tanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10287	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Epiphenomene discrimination is unfair, incorrect behaviour towards individuals, groups, peoples and so on. I used the term phenomenon and indeed discrimination is a phenomenon because discrimination can be debated in various ways. It may be positive discrimination but of course there are cases where we are talking about positive discrimination. Here, in most cases, we, if we want to talk, usually highlight those negative examples of discrimination and discriminatory behaviour. Getting ready for this presentation of my appearance, I took a look at the Internet what does it say about this phenomenon? And of course, I have come across a number of cases so that discrimination is not just our specific instrument so that in some demographic picture of the population here, at least 50% of the MPs would sit in the Croatian Parliament and it wasn't so that it wasn't the problem for third-aged people that we probably wouldn't have parties of pensioners who tried and by the political system, by means of some of their problems they were facing and so on and so on. So there's a lot of issues that we could lean on this basic concept of ours. But the fact that we're bringing and bringing this, we're having a debate is something positive, and of course we're going to support this law at the National Minority Club. But that doesn't mean that some aspects aren't to be talked about. I've been reading and looking at some examples from other countries. So in one Australia that boasts that a highly civilized tolerance country is a girl named Mairem, Mairem went as a candidate and although she was by all accounts the best candidate of the commission asked what faith you were? She said, "Muslimka". He says: "I am sorry, we cannot accept you because we know that you pray five times to God and we cannot allow you to leave your post as an Islamic believer." Of course, it was one excuse, but at least he was honest, so he said a saying about what it was about. This is an example of Australia, also an example in Australia of two boys, one Jew, the other was a Christian faith. This one wore his traditional Jewish cap and was asked by the president of the commission if you always wear that hat? And he said yes. He proudly said so, and not only did he explain to him that he hung his hair so that he would not fall during those sports activities. The result was this, the first one was admitted to that club, the second one wasn't received. However, they too have their own systems that it is a commission for equal opportunities and human rights, the commission has acted and in both cases the result has been favourable. I could take two examples from Europe. Do you remember a German journalist and writer who has been transformed into a Turkish, Turkish worker for many years to examine what phobias Turkish people face in Germany? He wrote a book, and that book brought him great recognition because, indeed, that's what we say research journalism, it was one honest positive approach to this man who somehow owed all of us who fought for all forms of equality. Or let me give you two more examples, two very big athletes from the French team of Anelka and Riberi. Anelka embraced Islam and as a Realo player he was quickly excluded from that club. On the other hand, Riberi as a player of Bayer Munich and today proudly testifys his faith, but also great game for the French team and for that club and has had no problems because of it, as you remember many athletes Christians when they score or finish before the game and after the game they cross, but Muslims, we know how to study one prayer, thanking God for the grace he gave at that time. So these are just some examples that talk about different perceptions of what is called discrimination. I've had a little try in a few days. I asked five fellow MPs if they might have memorized their unique home number of citizens. Most MPs from the ranks of national minorities knew by heart. These other parties didn't know. I have made one conclusion here, it is obvious that the system of state administration is such that members of the national minorities very often put us in a position that we have to prove etc., etc. And as a result, if you're going to ask me, I'm going to dictate my unique birth number right now because I've just been brought in very often in a position to do it. However, when I entered the central state office today trying to verify one piece of information from the Croatian Citizens' Mother I did not find information about my national identity in that register. What's going on, I don't know. The problem with discrimination is the layer of discrimination. We have one paradoxical case that, let's say one Muslim woman if she wants to take a picture with a scarf in the documents, in Zagreb will most normally get that document, but here I only state the cases of Vojnic and Crikvenica, there it could not have happened. So local small officials in their own way interpret what's normal, which is not normal, which can be, which you can't. Mr. Secretary of State, we must not allow someone in the lower structures to take over any attributes. And lastly, I can see it's already done. I'll give you one example. I received one solution from Mrs. Begic Enise, widow of the dead member of the Croatian Defence Council, who rejected the request for a family pension. I can now list you dozens of people who were members of the Dombrani units and so that someone wouldn't take me a little wrong and... which today as citizens of Croatia, Bosnia is normally enjoyed by the rights that have been acquired. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10288	Thank you. Does a government official want to take the final word? Here you are, distinguished Stjepan Adanic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family Affairs, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10289	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank all MPs and MPs for their comments and suggestions in a constructive debate under the Proposal for a Law on Discussion of Discrimination. As the applicant's intensities in lawmaking were to suppress and discrimination at the whole level and a number of social areas in which it arises, there is no wonder of great interest in it, especially if it is known that so far there was no single law that would fully regulate and regulate the problem of combating discrimination. It is also important to point out that by adopting this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants to achieve an atmosphere in which all persons are protected from potentially discriminatory situations. And the appointment of the Office of the Attorney General as the central authority for the prevention of discrimination should be improved and the co-operation of the Advocate General with other specialised lawyers, i.e. the Advocate General for Children, the Advocates for Gender Equality and the new Ombudsman who will probably be voted here these days, is the Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. We must stress that the state budget for the first year of application of this law, which takes effect in 1.1.2009, provides 2 million kuna, and of which 300 thousand kunas for the education of judges and the implementation of professional training of judges, which is very important for the emphasis. In conclusion, in this brief presentation, I will just point out that according to your proposals, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider the same and propose the best possible solutions based on analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10290	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote on that agenda point when the conditions are met. I hereby conclude today's debate and tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the 9th item of the agenda, and this is the proposal for a decision to appoint the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, the promoter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10291	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Discretion of Discrimination. It's an emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z.E. Number 74. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 106 of the Treaty on the The rules of procedure of this kind of amendment must be agreed by most MPs. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendment? Let's please get involved and vote that we will discuss these amendments to the government. Let's get involved and vote. The result? Accepted with 100 votes for, 8 abstentions, 9 against. I ask the government's representative, Secretary of State Stephen Adanic, to explain the amendment, the amendments. First Amendment 1. Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10292	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes on the final proposal for a law to combat discrimination: Amendment 1 in Article 3(2): "persons" is replaced by the word "persons". Here, in a clearer way, you define harassment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10293	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting Amendment 1 to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? This amendment was accepted by most votes; 95 votes for, 16 abstentions and 1 against. We're going to the Second Amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10294	In Article 4(1) behind the words "discrimination" are added: "if it is done with intent". Here, the incentive to discrimination is sanctioned if the perpetrator is aware that his behaviour can cause discrimination and if he wants discrimination to occur.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10295	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10296	Although this provision seems logical at first sight, this amendment will make it very difficult to prove discrimination. I think that courts will have a very difficult job in proving discrimination because simply prove not only intent but also awareness of the intention it must be the society of psychologists and the society of sociologists and philosophers together would not be enough to prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10297	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10298	Well, this amendment can't survive for nomotechnical or theoretical reasons. Encouragement with intent, therefore, is now required, or suggested, that this incentive be strengthened with intent. Encouragement can be done no other way than with intent. Otherwise it's about stopping and some kind of accident and a case. That's what we all need to know is that, that's, that's the alphabet and, and that's what the Law of Infraction is talking about. Here are the cases in the penitentiary, and you can see so encouraging someone is not possible without intent. And if you know that, please, one case. So maybe we'll make a fortune on the theory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10299	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This amendment was accepted by most votes; 74 votes in favour, 40 against and 3 abstentions. Please, Amendment 3. Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10300	In Article 9, paragraph 5, paragraph 5 is amended as follows: "In establishing a working relationship, inclusion in membership and in action that is in accordance with the science and sending of the church and the religious community is recorded in the religious communities in the Republic of Croatia and other public and private organisations acting in accordance with the Constitution and laws, if so required by religious doctrine, beliefs or goals." A new point of 10th is added, which reads as follows: "Setting in a more unfavourable position in regulating the rights and obligations of family relations when the law is laid down, and especially in order to protect the rights of children's interests, which must be justified by legitimate purposes, protection of public morality, as well as the benefit of marriage in accordance with the provisions of family law. Paragraph 3 is amended and reads as follows: "All the exceptions set out in paragraph 2 of this article should be interpreted in proportion to the objective and purpose for which they are established." These amendments shall allow churches and religious communities listed in the records of religious communities in the Republic of Croatia and other public and private organisations acting in accordance with the Constitution and laws to be freely and uninterruptedly represented by their doctrines, messages, beliefs or objectives. This amendment also clearly defines how exemptions from discrimination will be interpreted in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10301	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Sima Lucin, please, on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10302	Thank you very much. I am actually interested in the fact that we are introducing a new practice to introduce a complex or syntagma into the law as you wish "public morality". I'm interested in what the promoter means by being public, what is public morality? And what is in line and what is not in line with public morality? I wouldn't be going into theorizing right now and trying a few definitions of public morality or even having to put it here at all, because it would take us a long way. And if the motioner can answer me since there have been a lot of disputes in the media about whether this law, specifically this article is in line with the church or not, since on the one hand we've been getting information that it's agreed and on the other, I'm not interested in what is actually with it and I've been interested in it actually since the proposer introduced the practice to comply with the laws with one religious institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10303	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This third amendment of the government was accepted by the majority of 82 votes in favour, 20 against and 13 abstentions. Amendment 4. Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10304	Article 15(1) also states: “The Ombudsman will consult the social partners and civil society organisations involved in the protection and promotion of human rights, the organisation dealing with the protection of the rights of groups at high risk of discrimination, churches and religious organisations registered in the religious communities in the Republic of Croatia under the Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities, and the National Minorities Council. During the preparation of regular reports, the Ombudsman will respect the opinions and recommendations on the concept of discrimination and will consult the church and religious organisations employed in the register of religious communities in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10305	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10306	I have to say, it seems to me, in fact, that this is also one of the precedents. When it comes to assembly, or when it comes to our laws, it is the agreement of the lawyer's report. And in fact, I would say that in this way, it enables church institutions to interfere with a growing number of issues in this country. We give them this legitimacy, because we oblige the attorney general to seek opinions under this law, to consult with religious communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10307	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Fourth Amendment of the Government. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? The amendment was accepted by most votes, 77 votes in favour, 39 against and 3 abstentions. The review of the other amendments submitted has been shared on your benches, and I am asking now to show ourselves about these amendments. A representative of the government. Legislative Committee, First Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10308	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10309	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The second amendment of HDZ MPs has been withdrawn. Third amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10310	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10311	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Fourth, also the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10312	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10313	It's becoming an integral part. Fifth Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10314	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10315	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The Sixth Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10316	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10317	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The seventh Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10318	In part, the government accepts because the law uses the expression of a legal person with public powers, and accordingly we accept the above amendment in a way that in the opening sentence of Article 8, “body with public” is replaced by the words“legal person with a public” and by the subsequent amendment of the Committee on Law of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10319	I'm asking the board. He withdraws the board and accepts in this statement. Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Eighth Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10320	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10321	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Legislative Committee, ninth.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10322	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10323	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 10 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10324	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10325	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. 11. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10326	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10327	It's becoming an integral part. 12. The Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10328	It is here that the Government has taken the view that this amendment is partially accepted and the Proposer considers that the sex records cannot be objectively kept by those bodies referred to in Article 14, so we believe that sex records can only be kept by the public defenders or special defenders. Therefore, the above amendment is adopted in a way to add in Article 14 a new paragraph 4 which reads: “The Ombudsman and the special defenders shall be obliged to show all records of cases of discrimination in their jurisdiction by sex.”
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10329	Thank you. So, the amendment to the committee was withdrawn, and the formulation proposed by the government was accepted. Thank you. 13. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10330	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10331	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 14. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10332	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10333	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Imposed to Be God’s Word, 12 / 15
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10334	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10335	It also becomes an integral part of the proposal. 16. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10336	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10337	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, 17th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10338	The government also accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10339	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 18. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10340	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10341	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 19. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10342	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10343	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 20. The Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10344	This amendment, meaning Government, is partially accepted. The government means it accepts part of it. The term is used in the law, meaning that it is the same type of legal person with public powers, so we accept that amendment accordingly in a way that, in Article 25(2), the word “state body” is puts an end to the word “legal person with public powers.”
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10345	This was accepted by the board, so in this statement. Thank you. 21. The Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10346	This amendment is also partly accepted, since the term legal person with public powers is used in the law, and accordingly we accept the above amendment in a way that, in Article 26, the word “state body” is inserted and the words “legal persons with public powers” are added.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10347	Is that accepted? Yeah. The Committee accepted this formulation, so it withdraws its amendment text. 22. The Committee on Gender Equality, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10348	It's the same case here. In part, the government accepts, because the law uses the term of a legal person with public powers, and accordingly we accept the above-mentioned amendment to put an end to the word "state body" in Article 28(4) and add the words "legal person with public powers".
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10349	Adopted by the Committee on Gender Equality in this statement, which was expressed by a representative of the Government. 23rd Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10350	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-28-0.u10351	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Now, please, I am giving this law, an organic law, and it needs to be passed with the vast majority of MPs. So 77 votes. And I am voting on the final draft of the anti-discrimination law. Please, let's get involved and vote. I'm asking for a result. The law was passed by 117 votes to one with one abstention and one against. The club representative of the HSS proposed the following conclusion: it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report to the Croatian Assembly on its effects after three months of application of this Act and to implement, where appropriate, amendments and additions of certain articles. I am putting the table to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This conclusion by the HSS Representatives Club was accepted by 87 votes in favour, 24 against and 4 abstentions.
