ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15108	I thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the promoter of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, let me present to you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases is set out in Article 2(2) of the Article 4(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases has established... Infectious diseases whose prevention and control is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, the rights and obligations of units of local self-government, health institutions, and legal and physical persons in the protection of the public against infectious diseases, measures to protect the public against infectious diseases, and control of the implementation of these same measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is the most important provision and what is changed in this law, and in the former law, the provision of Article 3 of the law in force is taxing on infectious diseases whose prevention and repression is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Due to new infectious diseases, these diseases that have changed their epidemiology suggest that it is necessary to identify infectious diseases whose prevention and prevention of interest in the Republic of Croatia is regulated by a sublaw that allows for a spott response in order to protect human health. The proposal therefore gives authority to the Minister of Health for the adoption of a list of infectious diseases whose prevention and prevention is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. In addition, Article 23 of the applicable law regulates the issue of mandatory preventive disinfection, disinfection and deratisation. In view of the need to distinguish between preventive and mandatory preventive disinfection, disinsectation and deratiation of amendments to Article 23, it is regulated that preventive disinfection, dissection and deratiation are carried out as a special measure to remove the risk of the occurrence and transmission of infectious diseases, the removal of the damage caused by destruction, food pollution, and the contamination of certain objects causing micro-organisms harmful articles and rodents. In accordance with the amendments to the same article, mandatory preventive disinfection, disinsectation and deratiation as a special measure shall be implemented to combat the spread of infectious diseases in certain facilities, to combat the spread of infectious diseases in means of transport, ships, etc., and to combat the spread of infectious diseases in food warehouses. With regard to health supervision of callers, employees and other persons, the corresponding amendments to Articles 31, 32 and 33 of the applicable law shall be extended to the prohibitions relating to the performance of certain tasks in schools and other institutions for children and young people, as well as to healthcare professionals and workers who carry out the activities of providing the care of a person if those persons suffer from a certain infectious disease. The implementation of this law will not require additional funding from the state budget. In view of the fact that it is a law which complies with the European Union rules in accordance with Article 161(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it is proposed that the legislative proposal be adopted by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15109	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Chairman of the Health and Social Care Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15110	Thank you very much. Honored Mr. President, Secretary of State, proposing representatives. At its ninth session, the Committee on Health and Social Care discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases with the Final Proposal for a Law. This committee discussed this law as a parent body in accordance with Article 76. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was tabled by a proposing representative, and the Committee members supported the proposed law as a quality shift in the fight against infectious diseases, and whose application will allow faster response in their prevention and prevention, and thus better protection of human health. The provisions of the applicable law of a list of infectious diseases whose prevention and suppression is of interest to the Republic of Croatia have been established by tax-based listed diseases, and due to the emergence of new infectious diseases, and diseases that have changed their epidemiology require frequent addition of the list of infectious diseases. As a result, the opinion of the board members was necessary to provide for a simpler process of supplementing the list of infectious diseases. By empowering the Minister to bring a list of infectious diseases whose prevention and suppression of interest in the Republic of Croatia will contribute to the effectiveness of the protection of the public against infectious diseases, the board members pointed out. After an extensive debate, board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15111	Thank you. Are there any other representatives of the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mrs. Carmela Caparin's name on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15112	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the Law on the Protection of the public from Infectious Diseases with the Final Bill. Due to the vital importance of controlling infectious diseases for the whole society, the most important elements of this system have also been established by law. And this law is a alignment with European Union legislation. Since 2005, the International Sanitary Regulation has obliged every country to make all infectious diseases subject to objective epidemiological assessment an international risk, not just for some. Infectious diseases spread faster than ever. Since 1970, one or more new diseases have been identified each year, 39 in total, and more than 1100 epidemics have been reported in the last 5 years alone, including cholera, polio and bird flu epidemics. Massive vaccination, raising the sanitary health standard, the use of antimicrobials did not result in an end to infectious diseases. In developing countries, infectious diseases remain the biggest health problem. We are all aware of the important role that infectious infectious diseases play in world medicine and public health especially today at the time of globalisation. Infectious diseases are among the first five causes of mortality in the developed world, and unfortunately in many parts they are in the first place. Although surveillance of infectious diseases is mandatory, there are equipped microbiologically, viral laboratories the possibility of an epidemic always exists. The increased and accelerated spread of infectious diseases is the result of increasing international travel by aircraft. On the other hand, the example of tuberculosis control is becoming increasingly difficult as it occurs in a stronger and modern drug resistant form. Each year, 450 thousand new cases of multi-resistant tuberculosis are expected worldwide, out of which 70,000 are expected in the European region. In 2004, the Clinical Hospital for Infectious Diseases “Dr. Fran Mihaljevic is appointed as the Centre for Tropic and Travel Medicine of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia. Tropic diseases appear as passenger diseases. A growing number of travellers to tropical and sub-tropic countries, seamen, business trips, tourists, an increasing number of inhabitants from tropical areas, diplomatic business representations. Tropical medicine and passenger diseases with the political and economic development of Croatia will take an increasingly significant place. The modern man travels to various parts of the world, is exposed to both mental and physical efforts, different climate conditions, and the risks of illness from various diseases. It should be taken into account the travel of elderly people with chronic diseases and patients with different forms of immunodeficiency, i.e. reduced resistance to infection. This law just defines infectious diseases whose prevention and prevention of interest in the Republic of Croatia in order to respond and protect human health in time. The power to adopt a list shall be conferred on the Minister, as well as on the spot declaration of infectious disease and prevention measures. It is important to provide a provision on the health care professional’s prompt response which determines the disease, suspicion of disease or death from infectious disease and when not in the workplace service to report it to the nearest public health care office of the county, or the City of Zagreb. The law regulates that preventive disinfection, disinfection and deratiation are carried out as specific measures to eliminate the risk of the occurrence and transfer of infectious diseases, the removal of damage resulting from the destruction and contamination of food, and the contamination of certain objects caused by micro-organisms, harmful arthropods, and harmful rodents. It also prevents the spread of infectious diseases in certain facilities, means of transport, ships, food warehouses. The law also specifically determines the issue of mandatory disinfection in the case of cholera, plague, viral haemorrhagic fever, rabies, known to us at a recent time as sars or severe acute respiratory syndromes, legionnary diseases and other infectious diseases if there are epidemiological indications. The Sanitary Inspector may lay down other measures to protect the public from infectious diseases. In view of the severity of infectious diseases, bans on certain jobs in schools, institutions for children and youth are extended if people suffer from other infectious diseases, not just tuberculosis, cause of bowel diseases, fertilising and parasitic diseases. And at the end of the day, when the twilight of the antibiotic era occurs, resistant micro-organisms occur when new diseases occur, severe viral hepatitises, new viral encephalitis, sexually transmitted diseases, when, due to global climate change in certain parts of the world, malaria and diphtheria occur again, when bioterrorism and biological weapons bring the most classical and highly contagious infectious diseases such as anthrax, variole and plague, there is a need to have a good Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, it is necessary to have professional medical staff, infectious departments with the possibility of isolation, infectious and equipped laboratories. And recently, we witnessed five, six years ago when one of the ministers wanted to lift the infectious wards in hospitals. Countys and municipalities, cities are required to ensure the implementation of public protection measures against infectious diseases, means of monitoring the implementation of these same measures. Infectious are indeed a permanent, direct or potential danger to every human community, as well as to our own. And after the debate, members and members of the Croatian Democratic Community Club adopted this good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15113	Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15114	Thank you very much, Mr. President, State Secretary, MPs, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have two health laws ahead of us. Yesterday, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent 9 out of 5 completed, 4 new, and the reason is clear to all of you. The reason is because the past term of the health minister, the former health minister, was a mandate, as the poetic, philosophical, politicalally said mandates eaten by locusts. The term of office of which was only a delay and a wait, and clearly that a new secretary of state was accumulated during the time, apparently waiting for a lot of work. A mandate full of improvisation. Infectious diseases and the harmonisation of our legislation with European Union legislation, and since we celebrate 120 years of the birth of Andrija Stampar this year and celebrate 60 years of the World Health Organization and he was the first president of the World Health Organization, he was the first president of the World Health Organization, if you will correct it, then it is time to remember his quote in 1924: “Ignorance is the biggest enemy of health.” It's worth it today, it's worth it today. That goes for today. From 1967 to today, it has been 42 years, of which 42 years have been discovered, detected, and you begin to treat 39 new diseases, more specifically one disease per year. Both colleague Caparin and I, probably also colleague Bagarić, have not learned a series of these diseases, because they were simply not discovered at the time. Let's remember HIV, AIDS 1982, 1983, hepatitis C just turned 18 in 1989. SARS, Ebola, a whole series of diseases that have developed, which today poses a great danger, and that is why it is good that we have completed that mandate and have finally begun to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation and have finally adopted a list of infectious diseases in which there are 89 diseases. You're 90, and I'll tell you that later. So infectious diseases, as you know, are characteristics that are in the phase of globalisation not only of tropical diseases but also of other diseases spreading incredibly rapidly, and potentially they offer a great danger of bioterrorism. And that's why it's very well written in the chapter of the bill's reasoning, and I quote, "It should be spotless and without delay, especially I like this without delay to react and report all infectious diseases." And that's okay. Diagnosis and report. Unfortunately, this is not a treatment situation for some diseases, so I recommend that we also have a spot-on and without delay start and treatment of some infectious diseases because if not legally then at least by sublegal acts, and then we will not be constantly correcting incorrect allegations. For example, yesterday our minister who is not here today said there are four linear accelerators. There are 7 in Croatia. So he said that 70% of tumors are treated with radio therapy, which is clearly not true. tumour complications are being treated, and tumours are not being treated with radiotherapy. And in order to avoid permanent corrections, I recommend that you start treatment for infectious diseases without delay. For example, hepatitis B and hepatitis C are mentioned in 4 places. Not just the patient who's active, who's contagious, who's spreading the disease, but the one who's carrying the antigens has to log in. Why? The reason is very simple. Hepatitis B and hepatitis C definitely leads to liver cirrhosis within 15 years, and within 20 years to liver cancer. That's definitely true. It's so-called. The natural course of disease in some 10, 15, 20% of people. If we don't go back to the debate yesterday, who's responsible, who's not for expensive drugs, for rare diseases, and not to ask for permanent new funds with amendments that you unfortunately don't adopt, then we treat them in time. We treat them in time so they don't get cirrhosis. We treat them in time so they don't get cancer. We treat them in time so that they do not buy new linear accelerators if they are not needed, if we can treat them in time and thus help the patient Mark Mark Markovic who has hepatitis but what is important is helping our people, our country, our administration because we are reducing... The virus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, unfortunately, this is not done and I advise the Secretary of State to introduce treatment without delay, without delay, in accordance with the treatment of not only the legislation but the treatment of the European Union. "True non verba", "Parts of not words", are absolutely worth it in this, therefore in the treatment of infectious diseases. All 89. What we've been proud of, we've been proud of already, I'm going to mention again Andrija Stampar and his public health. Public health has been in the past few years, although the secretary of state has been in the process of vocalization, the epidemiologist will agree with me, in part, failed. When he travels outside to the World Health and Council of Europe, he will be asked three things among other things. He's going to ask him how the ambulance works because it shows the organisation of the system. So the rate of arrival, the percentage of disability, the percentage of morbidity and the percentage of mortality. He'll be asked what kind of transplant medicine you have because you can see the complexity of the system and you'll be asked by a third Mr. Secretary of State what kind of public health you are, how many HIVes and AIDS patients you're going to say the exact number. 150, 170 out of 200 and proud of that number. Why? Because we had great people in the '80s, public health workers who educated us. Who warned. Those who carried out prevention, who spoke publicly and openly scientificly and professionally based what HIV is, which is AIDS, how it is transmitted, and in this way today we can be proud that we are a country with an extremely low incidence. This has definitely not been spent in the '90s for a whole series of diseases, and that's why we're just introducing lists of infectious diseases today, not to mention things like that. He'll pass the law today, but he needs to be implemented. However, before the law, and most often by law we defend something, unfortunately, should conduct education and prevention. We'll talk about it late when the smoking comes. Education and prevention. You can't do that. There is no public health action and the past minister was probably proud of his statement that, when he said the opponent was a public health action. It's on that trail, and you see these 89 diseases are several diseases that are sexually transmitted. There's something that's very important on that trail, and it's sexual education. And this school year unfortunately started with 152 classes less because our birth rate is getting smaller and smaller. And this school year started without a sexual education. Educations based on scientific knowledge, but not on prejudice. And how long? 152 classes down. Out of 89 diseases, there's a series of sexually transmitted diseases. In 2035, every third citizen of Croatia, every third Croat will be over 65 years old. Who knows how many of the 2030s will be less enrolled, less-studded, first-class pops? That's why we have to educate them, and that's why we have to warn them about prevention and prophylaxis. We were playing, at least my generation, at two small, is it football or basketball one-on-one. That was our playground. Their playground today is "chat room". What you have in front of you. The laptops, that's their playground. We had a ball, a football, we put it in a basket or we scored goals. Their ball is a mouse. By clicking on the mouse colleagues and colleagues, they get all the information. By clicking the mouse. But unfortunately, they get bad information because they can't recognize them. They don't know how to extract accurate information. And that is what we are responsible for, or executive power. And in sexual diseases, sexually transmitted diseases and infectious diseases, not just in tropical diseases. That's the least of the problems. The tropics are fortunately still far from us. If they were not to be educated by clicking on the mouse and not to be educated badly, then come on, let's introduce a health education based on scientific and professional knowledge but not on prejudices because I stress their ball is a mouse. Their field, unlike my colleagues, is not a football field but a chat room. They get in, they get under a paragraph, they get bad information, and it's all re-percussed and it's re-perceptive to ours, to ours, to our future. The clue is that it must be unusual for Article 38 to change and it is said that health education in article 37, apart from health institutions, will be conducted, quoted, and other legal entities. Of course no one is against privatisation, of course no one is against private entrepreneurship. But public health, that's why we're talking about public health. We're not talking about one case. We're talking about all our citizens, and it's the job of the state, health care is a job of a state that, unfortunately, we don't spend in schools or health institutions, and now we're going to give it to private people. Based on experience, poor experience, when there is no home health, lack of public health, discontinuation of medicine, asbestos, professional illness, siliconosis. There is no more medicine, there is no more, and asbestos, silicon, mines exist. Based on my bad experience, I'm afraid and I'm warning you right now, I'm scared and I'm warning you, so public health, incidence, prevention, prevalination should be an obligation, the task of our Public Health Department County, and I can clearly enter others. Sars has destroyed Asia. It cost exactly $60 billion. Exactly their economy. Chicken Gunia is probably the 1990s disease Mr. Secretary of State who reported to Singapore a few days ago. 200 citizens of northern Italy have already won it. In the maconde language, it means “to become depraved. ” So that our public health doesn't definitely get distorted, so that we don't become makonde, so very, very sick, I recommend that you accept these suggestions and then the SDP Club will manifest itself on this law. Thank you very much, Mr. President, Vice President, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15115	Thank you. Two corrections to incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct the quote of my colleague Ostojic, who said that the past term of the minister has passed I don't know... said in a way that I don't know that locusts ate it, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's absolutely incorrect that the past term of the ministry passed as ineffective amongst other things because we had in the last year I mean at least five health care laws that we've passed. However, the adoption of the current laws so when you qualified it as a delay in waiting is completely incorrect, because we have laws regularly here on the track, and here are the recent instructions from the European Union that have been in favour of what I am talking about. So it's not only important to pass laws, but also to prepare and prepare the terrain so that tomorrow you can implement them. So it's not just about how many laws we're going to pass, but how we're going to implement them, so we're doing it in the last term, we're doing it now. And on the other hand, one more inaccurate allegation, which is that in the 1990s, I don't know enough epidemiological surveillance or I don't know how to control infectious diseases and everything that was necessary. The best denial of this is the fact that during the years of the war, no outbreak of infectious diseases occurred in the war or in the areas affected by the war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15117	And another Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would correct a truly incorrect assumption. I hope it is the lapus of a respected colleague, Ostovic, when he said "medicine work has been abolished, medically quoted no longer exists." I don't think that's really an exact quote. It is an insult to 120 teams of medical work working in the Republic of Croatia, for doctors, specialists in medical work who care about health under the new law of all employees, while no driving license has been issued in the Republic of Croatia without reviewing the medical work. So all the permits are illegal for you if there's no medical work. I mean, I don't hope that's your lapus about whether the medical work at this point is quality, can be more quality. We can argue, but say that there is no, indeed an insult to all doctors who are really consciously doing their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15119	And Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, a colleague said that there was no education, no prevention, which is really incorrect especially here is what his colleague corrected, as was evident in the Homeland War. And as for the surveillance of infectious diseases in Croatia, it has been very well-stalked for 80 years. I can set an example at the most recent time of the new AIDS disease and thanks to precisely prevention and education Croatia has been included among the slightly affected European countries, and the frequency of several dozen times lower than in the most affected European countries. So it's incorrect that there is no education and prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15121	HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15122	Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I can agree and agree with most of what counterpart Caparin said in front of the HDZ Club in general about these diseases, about the role of tourism, about travel, about everything that is generally known and talked about these diseases. I can agree with my colleague Ostojic about some of the failures in this area so far, but I have practically not heard a single word about the law that is proposed, you know. I would therefore completely ignore the comments in that direction and would exclusively concentrate on this law that is very important. I think that our home working body, our Committee on Health and Social Care has well located the underlying problem and they have practically dealt with the issue of a list of diseases, infectious diseases, and can agree with them that it is important that sublegal regulations regulate it for the reasons that in the last 25 years a colleague of Ostojić has also said about 35 new diseases, i.e. their cause and has been discovered, namely, these are very significant diseases for people who often appear in the human population and there have been another hundred new infectious diseases that are less often transmitted to man, but they are also on the list today of those who are jeopardizing our health. For this reason, we can assume that by developing molecular biology that has just enabled these discoveries, because we have not been able to reach these causes through the classic methods of diagnostics. I can't actually grow on bases, so we can't cultivate, but we can detect parts of these viruses or other microorganisms in our tissues. I talked about it two or three years ago very extensively, and I wouldn't be here to repeat myself. And that's why I'm glad that finally, here we are, and we accept this European standard that it has to change that list spotably and react spotily to every new infectious disease. I believe that this list will increase rapidly in the coming years, for which reason such a change is certainly welcome. The only question that you, colleagues, have to ask, which I haven't heard from the promoter is who will signal to Mr. Secretary that this list is increasing and that it reacts spotlessly to a disease. This clear part of the story is very important. If it's the Croatian Institute of Public Health, if it's someone else, I would very much like to know. In the Club of the Croatian People's Party, we also agree with the amendment of Articles 2 and 3 of this Act because it is particularly good that these diseases are directly registered to the county public health institutions. That's how it was in that former state, and there was something going on. Then we changed that and now we are going back to the old system that is quite logical, well-functioning, colleagues in our public health institutions are doing their job well and they will best know how to process it further towards the Croatian Institute and process it in an adequate way and professionally react. As regards Article 4, i.e. For example, we can understand this new division of disinfection and disinfection and deratization to prevention and mandatory prevention, which is a new one, but we would like to ask the proposing representatives to explain to us the identification of indications for mandatory preventive DDD, which is now determined by an epidemiology specialist, which we welcome excluding the competent sanitary inspector to also establish indications through sanitary supervision because you did not specify whether that part of the text is being expelled from the new law. You haven't explained it to us, and that's very important, because then part of that job can be divorced again and done in an unsuitable and unprofessional way. Article 5 states that units of local and regional self-government must enable the implementation of preventive and mandatory preventive DDDs. So, they have to make it possible to implement. What expression, make it possible to implement? Give us an explanation of who's going to initiate, which means make it possible, who's going to organize, who's going to pay DDD, who's going to oversee DDD and who's going to monitor DDD surveillance? The problem is always the money. There hasn't been much good in the last ten years in this system because there was no money from those we expected to pay for it. So give the citizens, tell the local self-government units clearly who has to pay. Article 8 speaks of who should not work in kindergartens, and the following words will be added to the current text: "and other infectious diseases according to the epidemiological indication". Now, we wonder what diseases are thought of and what epidemiological indications are thought of? In fact, if a child comes into kindergarten because of infected staff, and we don't know what diseases you mean, we don't really know. Is flu one of those diseases, of the other infectious diseases? Probably not. But it's going to be very difficult and embarrassing, even in some court case if one of the parents later sues a kindergarten, you, us, I don't know who. How are you going to get out of what other infectious diseases mean? It's such a general approach that I wouldn't know how to interpret it, you know? Because the disease is very difficult to prevent. If you haven't listed it, you can't hire him because his illness isn't listed, and there's an epidemic. Furthermore, we think that in the segment of separate education, what counterpart Ostojic said well. Here, please, let's not open some fake market, falsely liberal to be, you know? Please nicely, here if the state is interested in preventing disease prevention then it must keep everything under tight control, but clearly afterwards be responsible for what will happen. There I cannot accept any market that everyone can now conduct health education, etc., etc. That is the same thing, fellow promoters and performers of the DDD. I've noticed countless times and my colleagues have complained in the field that people and companies have been completely incompetent to DDD on the ground, which is not good. The criteria need to be sharpened, and we need to be sure that work is done properly. Finally, my colleagues in the profession asked me to point out that in the debate, the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases does not foresee the making of sanitary cards for people who come into contact with food in the original packaging, which is a requirement for people who work in traffic with general uses, and all these items are packaged must carry out a medical examination once a year. Here, these were our concrete suggestions. Some questions please give us answers so that we can be asked when we vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15123	Thank you. The HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15124	Dear Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases, and we believe in the club HSS that these changes are meaningful and necessary because they are increasingly emerging infectious diseases and risks from them and the existing measures of human health protection must, in any case, be improved in the interest of public health, which is also proposed by these changes. Except that, of course, these amendments aim to bring our legislation into line with European Union legislation, we think that it is an extremely good provision and that the mandatory adoption of a list of infectious diseases whose prevention and suppression of interest for the Republic of Croatia is in some way now put into the power of the Minister of Health, which will, in any case, improve the effectiveness of the system itself in the interests of improvement and the public health system itself. The obligation to report suspected illness or illness is also extended to the physician who is not presently in the workplace. A clarification of the mandatory preventive disinfection procedure, disinfection and deratisation is also introduced. The obligation of the county and the City of Zagreb is more clearly defined when it comes to the implementation of all these procedures, and it is also important to point out that the extension of the ban on doing jobs in schools and institutions for children and youth, healthcare, service activities, hygiene care is also extended to people suffering from certain infectious diseases. It also introduces a health care obligation for people working with food and gives greater authority to sanitary inspectors to decide on the implementation of measures to protect people from infectious diseases. Also, this law simplifies the process of transfering dead persons from abroad and the exhumation procedure itself. What we believe in the HSS Club is that it should be more clearly defined refers to Article 33 of page 15 which, therefore, which defines that legal persons employed by workers and self-employed in the provision of personal hygiene care services as well as to the activities of the introduction of paints and foreign bodies into the skin and mucous membranes, must not perform these tasks if they suffer from active tuberculosis or from fertilising or parasitic skin diseases. So it is not clear here what this article is all about, so when it comes to the work of bringing colors and foreign bodies into the skin and mucous membranes. And we also think that we should more clearly define this part that refers to fertilized or parasitic skin diseases because this is too broad a definition of how you listed it in the article itself. What is quite known and available to the public that according to the World Health Organization report are recorded, only during this year, 53 epidemics that we think we really need all of us together. Experts themselves say it is an alarming state, given the fact that time and attention are being paid to the discovery and surveillance of the troubled areas themselves in the world where large deadly epidemics have already been located. However, experts also warn of certain causes that favor new epidemics, which are primarily changes in our life habits, ecosystems, increasingly pronounced climate change and irrational use of antibiotics, and even viruses themselves become more virulent and cause increasingly severe diseases. And of course, despite all the efforts made by our services, but also the World Health Organization seems to be a little out of control about the prevention and monitoring of the occurrence of the disease on the ground. We can remember the cases that we had this year, but also last year, when it comes to meningococcal sepsis in kindergarten in Maleshnica who really upset the entire public and worried parents, but also the viral meningitis that appeared during last year in the Rijeka kindergartens where the staff were also employed in kindergarten, but also the children got sick of this disease. Of course, there are several reasons that alone or in interaction lead to a rebum of infectious diseases. We are aware that the population is increasing and that in certain parts of the world, there are certain segments that are not accompanied by adequate infrastructure and those minimum hygiene conditions that should be met for the life of the population. Of course, the last few decades have been liberalization, but sexual freedoms themselves have enabled the spread of various sexual diseases such as AIDS, gonorrhea, and syphilis. Also, of course, because of all the trends that we are in today's growing globalisation are increasingly regrettable and the users of intravenous drugs that have led to the increase of those HIV-diseased people. This, of course, also contributes to changes in diet, mass food production, consumption of suspicious food, changes in diet, and also without adequate sanitary control, which is expressed in developing countries, and we know that, unfortunately, such food is very often imported into our country and ends up on our shelves, we can say that it also causes different diseases. It is also certain that the migration of tourists from our country to other exotic countries is growing more and more, but also vice versa, and that this also contributes to different new diseases. The age of the population itself is increasing, thus increasing the older population with weaker immunity and, of course, that immunity is not strong enough to defend itself against the cause of infectious diseases, and that group includes those who suffer from tumors, those who have transplanted organs and those who have a damaged immune system. What concerns is the use of antibiotics in food used for the breeding of animals for the food industry and this contributes to the development of resistance to antibiotics, resulting in difficulties in the treatment of certain infectious diseases with conventional antibiotics. It's particularly, of course, expressed in America. I think that Croatia must make a great effort not to reflect the situation with us. And what is certainly evident today is the unreasonable human interference and the uneconomic use of natural ecosystems from the destruction of forest areas to the fire, and this has led to the rise of a number of dangerous infectious diseases, so to speak. zoonoses passed on to man through animals and insects. It is certain that in the fight with infectious diseases we cannot relax because the moment we think we have found a solution a new infectious disease appears again and we need to look for methods to contain them. Our position in the HSS club is that Croatia is holding a successful step with the world in this fight together with its experts, infectologists, microbiologists and epidemiologists for the time being and so should remain in the future. And we think this law is certainly a good basis for that, and that's why the HSS Representatives Club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15125	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I quote, so aging kills immunity, and it's weaker. This would lead to the conclusion that age is a disease. So age and aging is a normal physiological process, so it's definitely not exactly medical. I'm a doctor, and I definitely can't confirm that. So don't lose your immunity, though age is one normal physiological phenomenon, we've all been Mr. Vice President since the beginning of Parliament 45 minutes old today. Unfortunately, we can't stop age, but age is a normal physiological phenomenon, so here's proof that we have a bone marrow worth 240 years, that only an average citizen of the world uses only 15% of the brain. In other words, I expect that in 50 years each of us, each born girl in Croatia or boy, will live at least 110, 120 or 130 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15127	Age and there is one exception when it is, and it is for a gentler sex and it is eternal, their beauty is eternal, impenetrable. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15128	Mr. Vice President, colleague Ostojić has injured the Rules of Procedure because he deliberately twists my words for what I have not said in any way. I just pointed out that the age of the population is increasing, thus increasing the older population, and their immune system is no longer adequately capable of defending itself against infectious diseases. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15129	That's clear now. And Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15130	Thank you very much. I'd fix a colleague who said we can't control menocous meningitis here as one case appears. It's not true we can't control it. When it appears you can prevent and you can control, you can give profiling. You can't know if someone is going to get meningococcal meningitis because you have healthy callosophers in the throat of meningoccal meningitis. And secondly, it is incorrect that intravenous heroin administration leads to an increase in patients. According to the statistics we have, the number of patients in 1997 was 17 and 2006. 16. However, it is registered and monitored by newly discovered infected, newly-discovered persons who have no signs of disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15131	Individual debate, Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15132	Dear Mr. Vice President, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. I will join in this very important debate more perhaps a colleague of Doric so I will stick to more legal work because it seems to me that the goal of this today's... You'd say about this law right on that basis. [[You don't understand.]] On the basis of the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z.E. No. 139 is in line with the legislation of the European Union, the legal acts of the Council of Europe. The year 2007 is the year of the year. The law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases has identified infectious diseases whose prevention and prevention of interest in the Republic of Croatia, the rights and obligations of units of local self-government, health institutions and legal and physical persons in the protection of the public against infectious diseases, measures to protect the public against infectious diseases, and control of the implementation of these measures. However, as we heard in the debates, new infectious diseases have emerged that have changed their epidemiology, and the necessity of their suppression and prevention is not questionable and the Republic of Croatia is obliged to adopt sublegal acts to promote its response to the same in order to protect people. Article 3, as has already been said, contains provisions of the applicable law that are being amended, or complemented, and is taxing infectious diseases whose prevention and prevention is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. In the event of a risk of an infectious disease which is not specified in paragraph 1 of this Article which may endanger the population of the Republic of Croatia, the minister may determine that measures specified by this law as well as other necessary measures apply to this infectious disease. In the event of an outbreak of infectious disease or the danger of an epidemic or pandemic of an infectious disease, in accordance with the provisions of Article 2(4) of this Act, or where the danger of an epidemic or a pandemic of an infectious disease has been declared by the World Health Organisation or the competent authority of the European Union, the Government of the Republic shall be empowered, on a proposal from the Minister, to establish the essential interest of the Republic of Croatia in the supply of goods, services and works, and in order to prevent and combat and infect the infectious disease. This legislative proposal gives authority to the Minister of Health for the adoption of a list of infectious diseases whose prevention and prevention of interest in the Republic of Croatia and because of the need for frequent additions to the list of infectious diseases, it is necessary to regulate their... Article 5 is also important that the annual programme of public protection measures brings the Minister of Health to the proposal of the Croatian Institute for Public Health. [[You don't understand.]] On the basis of the programme referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the annual programme of public protection measures against infectious diseases for the municipality, the city, or the City of Zagreb, shall be adopted by the competent authority of the municipality, the headship of the city or the City of Zagreb and, on a proposal from the competent Institute for Public Health. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In my opinion, Article 16 is also important. Namely, the legal person who performs health care activities and private healthcare professionals according to the site of the outbreak of the infectious disease report submits the application to the competent public health care office, the county, or the City of Zagreb and at the same time to the Croatian Institute of Public Health. The medical doctor or other healthcare professional who determines the disease, suspicion of disease or death from the infectious disease referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, and who is not in the workplace, shall report without delay to the nearest legal person who carries out his or her medical activity or private healthcare professional. And there's Article 23, which regulates the issue of mandatory preventive disinfection, disinfection and deratization. In view of the need to distinguish between preventive and compulsory preventive disinfection, disinsectation and deratiation of amendments to Article 23, it is regulated that preventive disinfection, disinfection and deratiation are carried out as specific measures to eliminate the risk of transmission of infectious diseases, the elimination of food damage and contamination of certain objects caused by micro-organisms, pests of the arthropods and harmful rodents. With regard to health supervision of calliform workers and other persons with appropriate amendments to Articles 31, 32, 33 of which the same has been said, of the applicable law, prohibitions relating to the performance of certain tasks in schools and other institutions for children and young people as well as healthcare professionals who carry out the activities of providing hygiene care to persons if those persons suffer from certain infectious diseases. Mr. Secretary stressed that in the end he said that the implementation of this law would not require additional funding from the state budget and I am joining the Croatian Democratic Community club to support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15133	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15134	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Surely everyone in this House knows that infectious diseases are caused by the entry of pathogens and virulent microbes into the human organism, damage tissue, and thus develops disease. Surely the same are all known to have certain knowledge of most infectious diseases, and many have, unfortunately, been over some, but today public attention is certainly not as focused on infectious diseases as it is on non-infectious, this is... Cardiovascular diseases and malignancies, and it always raises the question of who's responsible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the reason for this debate. Well, here's the surveillance is kind of important to mention, because he, like he said, has been in progress for 80 years, and the entire health care system is in progress. It is necessary to mention this, and a special role of course is played by the Institute of Public Health, which certainly makes an immeasurable contribution to this part. But it certainly also measures the mandatory ones and the special ones, etc. They are also very important so that it is also necessary to mention disinfection from some of them I would mention that I do not repeat disinfection and disinfection and deratization. But it is necessary to mention here and immunization, please nice and all those people who have been immunized for years by the fields from the campaign method of immunization to today's continuous etc. but it is also necessary to mention the water supply, thank God that contributes to sanitary and hygiene measures that contribute safely to the better, and when we round up the entire water supply ring in Nice Ours, we will certainly further improve this area. 'Let's say that everything is under control in some way in this part but certainly enough to mention, for example. H5N1 to give everyone’s attention and in this House of Highers some way immediately increased, and also in public, so let us remember two years ago how unfortunately it was in that part, and some have earned thanks to God... etc. It's well-known. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And even now, in such circumstances, since here is in accordance with the law and this and protecting the public from infectious diseases, it is necessary to maintain all infectious diseases under control because of the emergence of these new diseases that have a strange epidemiology and an even weirder clinical picture, it is necessary to react without delay. And here in these circumstances comes this law as ordered with the label P.Z.E. which of course we will all support, and this is important to mention what he brings. So I would just like not to repeat what the predecessors said, I would say that these amendments to Article 3 where the health minister is given the opportunity by means of a sublegal act, so a certain disease also reacts without that procedure that is longer, etc. means a particular disease which is of interest to the Republic of Croatia to keep under surveillance to be placed. Furthermore, it is certainly necessary to mention once again what counterpart Doric was asking the question, amendments to Article 23, of course, mandatory preventive deratiation. I fully understood that it was more and more clearly standing, but that it was more about means of transport, ships and food warehouses, etc., I think it's very important in that part. And the last thing I would say, surely, is that these amendments to Articles 31, 32 and 33 will certainly improve this area, therefore, with regard to the supervision of the truckers. It is unnecessary to say that people with tuberculosis at school institutions cannot work and, let's say, those institutions that provide care for a certain age of life, of course, with a certain skin pathology, certainly should not, and I think it is very clear and evident. And in that part, I think this law will certainly improve the same area and contribute to further improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15135	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to join my colleagues and colleagues who emphasized the importance of this law which is extremely large for a simple reason, which although it is unlikely that a famous "Spanish" will happen in 1918 when he died by some 25 million people, but it is known that the flu pandemic appears somewhere every 40 years. I remember the last one was in '68, and now we're in 2008, and here's a big World Health Organization meeting in Portugal that warned that this year probably a quarter of Europeans will get flu, that 70% of people are going to be sick, so it's time to warn that enough vaccines are needed and we invite people to be vaccinated against flu, because infectious diseases are really preventing the old rule, better to prevent it than treat it. It is amazing that 53 epidemics worldwide were recorded in 2008. It is interesting that in the last 25 years, as we have heard 38 new diseases have already been discovered, practically every year we have one and a half new disease, which only indicates how big the problem is the treatment of infectious diseases and I hope that the ministry in its plans specialization is taking care of the great lack of doctors in Croatia that we have sufficient doctors in due course to deal with infectious diseases. According to the World Health Organization, only about a million people suffer from Salmonella every year, the rabies of 55,000 people, and therefore we see how important it is for both education and health education to go much better than it is for us at the moment. What I especially want to warn you is that the treatment of infectious diseases and the prevention of infectious diseases is one problem that we need to approach with a much broader aspect than just from a medical point of view. Take, for example. our prisons in which we have a large number of addicts and people suffering from Hepatitis who are one of the kinds of reservoirs of this virus where the treatment has not been carried out in a quality way and where there is a constant possibility that due to the spread of Hepatitis within such environment and the exit of such people from prisons that have not been treated, and this system is not in the health care system which is a particular problem, so the Ministry of Justice does not have enough resources to ensure treatment in an adequate manner, so this should be taken into account in order to address this problem in a more quality way so far. It is also possible that bureaucratic decisions of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance that punish pediatricians when they give the vaccine they have chosen in agreement with their parents are not a good way to increase fissure, because we know what collective resistance means when it is raised to a degree of fissure that requires far more split than it is so far. What I particularly want to stress is that the law is good, however, by sublegal acts, any quality supervision should really ensure that it is implemented. Especially in the case of measures currently envisaged and with mandatory and preventive measures of disinfection, disinsectation and deratiation, as well as by fellow Doric, who are rarely carried out in local environments in a sufficiently good way. So I ask the Secretary of State to perhaps increase the penalties under conditions in which the owners of space make it difficult for, say, local self-government units to carry out quality disinfection, deratization and disinfection. Therefore, prevention of infectious diseases is an important task for a doctor, but it is the task of the entire society to pay much more attention to than it once seemed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15137	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15138	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the government, colleagues and colleagues. Some of us discussed this law when we passed it last year, on July 13th. This law changes therefore less than a year after we've brought it in and it's still marked P.Z.E. I want to warn here about a situation that seems to be happening quite often here in Parliament, and that P.Z.E. we are banging on laws that have nothing to do with European legislation and that have nothing to do with it. The change of this law regarding the list of infectious diseases is justified, I personally support it, that I understand, but neither in the harmonisation plan nor in the Croatian legislation with the legislation of the European Union that we passed in March of this year, there is no record of anything new in the European legislation since 18 July when the law was passed to this day. The European Commission gave a screening report for this area on 7 February 2007. The government of the Republic of Croatia established a negotiating position on March 28th last year. We passed the law on 28th. And now we're changing it. What we didn't know was 28. And we know today, and what's the reason for changing the law? Kolega Bagarić said well, it is not enough to change the law, the law needs to be changed in a way that changes on the one hand are quality, complete, on the other hand, so that practical application can be ensured. This is how we build up the changes to the laws that we changed from pure, not to say, sloppyness, because there are some things we predicted at the moment when we were supposed to bring it in at the first moment. I repeat, we received all the items from the European Commission, negotiating positions in the spring of last year, we passed the law at the end of July last year, and now we are changing it because we forgot something. We're too forgetful. And you want colleague Ostojić, my right, and it is unequivocally true that this past mandate was the one eaten by locusts because this is simply an indication that it is actually not working properly. While I'm at that Europe, I think some MPs mentioned before me. We have marked the 120th death of Andrija Stampar, 60th anniversary of the World Health Organization where Andrija Printar was one of the founders, one of the authors of the Constitution of the World Health Organization. His saying is known: “Ignorance is the greatest enemy. ” Knowledge is when we talk about Croatia joining Europe, about Croatia joining the world is exactly the model of public health Andrija Printar gift actually the Republic of Croatia to the world and something that I think we can view as one of our biggest export products that we seem to be giving up too easily right here in Croatia where it came from. Why am I saying that? This law, therefore, states in this applicable law as measures to protect the public from infectious diseases, general measures, special measures, security measures and other measures. Neither of these measures, nor in general, nor in particular, nor in others, nor in a specific measure of education of the population. In some infectious diseases, some infectious diseases can prevent the education of the population and can indeed treat on the one hand and improve, on the other hand, the epidemic, among others, cannot, of course, because the causes are significantly different. I repeat and repeat what I said last summer. The list of these infectious diseases includes all sexually transmitted diseases, and I again urge that the education measure be put in place as a prevention measure to protect the population from infectious diseases. There's no such thing as law. When we discussed this last year at the Parliament session, the vice-president of the Parliament then, today, health minister Milinovic and he strongly supported the idea. I am sorry that he is here today, when the minister is not here in the hall, but I am really asking that you intervene with my amendment as a pronoun because of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we cannot and can not introduce a measure of public education as one of the measures to prevent the spread of infection from infectious diseases. Why I especially mention sexually transmitted diseases and health education as in a broader sense, i.e. sexual education and education in a narrow sense. Fifteen to 20% of female students were infected with chlamydia, 60% of sexually active women up to 30 years old, was infected with HPV. 60%, not every 10th, but 6 out of 10 women to 30 years of age has been infected with Human Papilloma virus. It is known to all, the actual association of HPV infection and the formation of carcinoma of the arms of the uterus has been demonstrated. And if it's not an epidemic, if it's not something we have to fight, then I don't know what it is. We are talking here today about bird flu, sarsa, some serious diseases that are so rare and not indicated in Croatia, which we should, of course, work not to happen, but we have live epidemics in Croatia that we do nothing against. For years, we've been talking about the need to screen the population for chlamydia, not the point. For years, we've been talking about preventive checks, about taking the Pope's test as mandatory in systematic examinations in the student population, the younger population, it's not about. 60% of women under 30 are infected with either chlamydia or HPV. And sexual education, health education is gone, we're waiting for an evaluation. The Department of Health balls are transferred from the Ministry of Education, so back to the Ministry of Health and so on, but as long as we are discussing time and money, new and new young people are infected with diseases. So I think it's high time we stopped talking about some things in principle, talk even in general, talk about world trends, because we have problems in our backyard. Therefore, the law in the section in which it is said that the Minister rules out a list of infectious diseases... Absolutely acceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this law, the biggest problem is what the law doesn't have, which I think is necessary. And that is not to state the measure of education as one of the measures to prevent infectious diseases. I ask you to put it in your amendment to the law as it says it must be an education of health care professionals and everyone else and that finally someone in the Republic of Croatia decides to conduct health education and education. Croatia does not have health education and education, and the data that I have said and many others are saying that if we continue to act like some kind of Noah, we will push our head into the sand that tomorrow we will have much more problems and cancers of the arms of the womb and infertility as a result of untreated chlamydia infections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15139	Thank you. Replica Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15140	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think what my colleague Lugaric has just pointed out is our biggest, most important problem under which the state is doing nothing, the government rejects the possibility of sexual education in schools by citing some unbulful answers. The Minister of Health is directly responsible for this dramatic situation that happens in the younger population, in reproductive age. That our 150 thousand couples are infertile. This is the information that my colleague Lugaric pointed out by the number, in which the percentage of women are "Human Papilloma Virus" who is a direct cause of cancer but also all of these diseases that are mentioned here lead to infertility. The white plague has affected Croatia. Therefore, this is also a way not only for our people and for our own women to be healthy but directly affecting the reduction of the reproductive potential of Croatians and Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15141	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Before I start talking about this law, I would refer to this presentation by my colleague Lugaric. I would actually continue one of my discussions with her from last term and it concerns exactly the question, I don't know, sexually transmitted diseases, diseases, so she's right. However, we must ask this question and the question of health education in the way you said and I support you in that and education, but also for all those freedoms that you advocate and promote and are deeply related to this disease and to the transmission of this disease, these diseases. So we can't be two-faced. One thing to stand for, and then one also stands for something completely different that completely derogates this first. So you're not going with each other. And now I would return, I would now return to the presentation of my colleague Doric who asked a remarkable question and a very important question when he said who would signal the minister that a disease that would need to be listed in the list of diseases that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia in terms of preventing them. This is an opportunity and time with this law, I would say, affirmatively speaking about something in the Republic of Croatia, which is actually the answer to this question by my fellow Doric, and I don't think he's asked it because he doesn't know the answer, but he has asked it purely rhetorically and I think it's perfectly fine. So this is an opportunity to thank the people and services that are little known for. That's a little something to be heard about. And that's when they do good. So when they're doing good, there's little to know about them. When there's a problem, there's only one thing you can hear about them. I'd compare it in a certain way to, I don't know, surgery. Almost all people know, I don't know, the surgeon who's operating on them and even looking for a relationship, then they need to know who's operating on them. But hardly anyone knows who's leading the anesthesia during surgery. And an anesthesiologist is as important during surgery as a surgeon. But an anesthesiologist doesn't know much. So doctors in the health care system know many of us in this and that profession, but those who deal with this problem, those people who, from the service, who work on this out of the state's interest and prevent disease at country level, or care about the public health of the people, very little we know. So I'm talking about epidemiologists, the Croatian Institute of Public Health, his service to prevent infectious diseases as such. So epidemiology as a medical branch and science in Croatia has a very long tradition and medical activities and institutions that have dealt with this problem in Croatia date back to 18th century. However, in 1923, the Epidemiological Institute was founded as the predecessor of today's Croatian Institute of Public Health. In 1921, interesting in the Republic of Croatia even by law a certain or defined function so-called epidemiology at the time of the doctor. The Croatian Institute of Public Health, therefore, as a reference centre or its Department of Epidemiology of Infectious Diseases since 1996, has actually been a professional, methodological, information and coordination centre in the Republic of Croatia whose primary objective is to control infectious diseases and to actually combat all those difficulties and consequences that they can produce. In the Republic of Croatia with laboratories and with everything they have actually represents in the right sense the word "so-called". in English "CDC Center", Center for the Control and Prevention of Infectious Diseases. They are the most responsible for creating and proposing and programmes and eradicating various diseases that have actually been brought to an end by vaccination or prevention, but precisely because of these elements mentioned in this law, which is a change in the epidemiological picture of different diseases, new diseases, their role becomes even more important and even more important. They're also carriers of permanent, I'd say insurance, a constant flow of information on the movement of infectious diseases. They also issue a monthly epidemiological valve. Then communicate with the public, with the professional community and in the right sense the words are a service which is also a teaching centre that has raised so far I think at this time, I mean living 150 epidemiologists in the Republic of Croatia and many other specialists or medical workers who deal with this problem. Then they are the holders of scientific work in this field, they are members of different expert committees in the domestic and international public. Direct participants in various anti-epidal interventions are particularly dangerous and few positive, few known infectious diseases. In the right sense, the words coordinate to help and develop epidemiological activities in the field of Croatia. They're on a constant basis, I'd say alertness, and in a constant relationship with anyone I may not know the occurrence of a particular case, of a particular condition. So, in this small, short presentation of that service, I would, therefore, in a certain way through this law, look at all these people and show respect for what they have done in the fight for human health and in what they will do. So, and what's in front of them. The prevention and prevention of infectious diseases as it stands in this law is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and this service as such is indeed of interest to the Republic of Croatia. And in the recent Homeland War, I already mentioned it. I think that should be said again thanks to primarily to those people whose names are few who know because they work quietly in their laboratories and there has been no outbreak of infectious disease on the ground. Therefore, they are the ones who have actually contributed significantly in their own way and the defenses of the Republic of Croatia. Because there isn't an army in this world that's immune to an epidemic if you don't carry out the epidemiologically everything you need and you don't do the prevention that needs to be done. So, I support this law. I have no doubt that there will be absolute improvement, contribute to the improvement of public health in the Republic of Croatia and absolutely know and you know all of you here, and especially doctors that we have services that they will be able to handle, know how to deal with all these difficulties and implement this law in action and get what is of public interest and of national interest, which is preventing the disease. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15143	Thank you. Replica Madam Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15144	I don't want to repeat the discussion we had, and it was exactly the same last year. But I ask you to answer me which freedoms do I advocate that are a risky factor in the spread of these infectious diseases? Are these freedoms because I am against the abstinence programs that the World Health Organization has proven not to contribute to responsible sexual behavior and do not contribute to the prevention of the spread of infectious diseases? Are these freedoms when I advocate the mandatory use of condoms in sexual relations or should I push my head into the sand like a large majority of people? I'm asking you to tell me what kind of freedoms we stand for that are risky?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15145	Replica, Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15146	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't see any dear colleagues, which is why you've been talking to me about my review of your exposure. And you said my debate was identical to last year. It wasn't identical to last year at all, because last year's topic was completely different, and this is a whole other area, and it has nothing to do with each other. However, I referred to your same statement, your exposure was identical. You were also talking about I don't know about sexually transmitted diseases and about the need I don't know about preventing these diseases, etc. And I stand for it, and I support it. However, we simply have a different view of it. So my view is that you can't, there's actually no way to prevent a certain sexually transmitted disease without working on responsible sexual and any other behavior. Therefore, there were, only a little, known in the Croatian public that there were two educations, two programmes related to sexual education, and they know which SDP stands for. The one you stand for will not contribute to the prevention of these diseases. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15147	Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15148	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. Any amendments to the law, especially this Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, must be an important topic if it is intended to increase the protection of public health. That is why both this law and these amendments that are present here are a special list of infectious diseases that are given is significant that we have a prevention in this part that will prevent these infectious diseases. One of the preventive actions mentioned here is definitely disinfection, disinfection and deratization. I'd say something about that part, because it's just disinfection, disinfection and deratization that's an obligation that protects people's health but also the hygiene of food production has a significant place. Normally, disinfection and disinfectants themselves are not miraculous and they will not prevent us from getting some human disease or food pollution unless we have developed preventive measures and cleaning and maintaining the hygiene of the area where we live, where we produce that food. In this part, therefore, we need to be active in order for this disinfection to be successful. Disinsection is also one set of actions that destroy insects. They are transporters of many of these infectious diseases. For example, the fly carries about 5 million microorganisms on it. We know what the contacts are, where that fly lives and the manure and I don't know where and then it comes up, if it comes into contact with food normally that people can get infected over it, and also the possibility of rapid development. Because of one pair of flies, we have a very large number of young people developing over the year, that's even about a million. That is why this disinsectation is as important as being carried out. Deratiation is one set of measures. They're being conducted with the aim of destroying rodents normally. They're exactly the same ones that are transporters of infectious diseases, but unlike maybe some other ones, they're destroying that food. One rat eats 25 kilos of food a year, so count on what would happen if we didn't do those actions. However, it is much more than those rodents, besides the food they destroy to pollute it, because only the thought, that is, if we see traces that it is, and we know that it was a rat or a mouse near some food that we will come up with a disgust on that food and people will normally not use it, therefore economic damage. The disease of rodents, too, normally, I will only mention one that was particularly present in Slavonia and Baranja after a peaceful reintegration when these over told us that they did not have trihinosis, but after that there was just one epidemic and just a lot of measures were used to repair this condition. First of all, it was a trihineloscope examination of meat, but it was also mandatory to deratize both in Vukovar-Srijem, Osijek-Baranja County and were free of charge and carried out as such. Normally, the examination of meat was necessary because many who consumed sausages, undercooked meat, or something like that experienced that their entire families had been infected with Trichinel and as such had remained patients for the rest of their lives. The issue of disinfection is also related to insect - carrying diseases. With us thank God malaria is reduced as such, but 900 thousand species of insects in the world exist and normally that certain species will appear again in our home, here we read about this tiger mosquito that is also one of some new insects that appears in us and can cause certain diseases. How do you get rid of rodents? We always know that was what he said when rats are guessing in the harbor comes plague or there's been a plague, etc. We need to know that these rats live and breed alongside man, in housing, there are some that breed outside, and they live in dwellings and those who live and work, or destroy food outside in the fields. So these are one large-expansion population that can also result in deratiation with the poisons that are being carried out that we already have another generation of anticoagulation toxins today because there is resistance of rodents to certain toxins. They don't guess from them because a lot of mice have to be given, and that's why to prevent the development of these populations, deratization, compulsory deratiation is one of the basic needs. And now in the end, in an attempt to give one meaning to this process, the question arises whether with these changes this law gives less protection or greater protection? I stress that these preventive examinations of the Trichoscopic obligation with deratiation prevent the development of certain diseases, which is clearly proven. So, as we will and may be glad to hear the question of these preventive DDDs and mandatory DDDs. How to distinguish it and it is very important to link it to real needs because it is what it is and what often decides whether it will be mandatory or preventive deratiation, the question of how much it costs and who pays it? I don't think these dilemmas should be in many situations because it's bad if we deal with such dilemmas and decide who will pay for it and whether it will be paid or not because the worst thing would be to make a decision about whether it will be a preventive deratiation that is likely to be co-financed or paid by the residents themselves or mandatory deratiation when it's mandatory, when it's being carried out in the whole area because the deratiation if we don't systematically do everything in every yard, then it's a failure of deratiation. And that's why I think it would be the worst thing to do if the finance, or financial experts, decided whether deratiation would be preventive or mandatory, would it be executed or not, and how would it be paid? I think it's still a final decision to give people from health care, from veterinary, from rehab, so those who have and decide on this part of health, not financial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15149	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Drazen Jurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, thank you to the honourable MPs. There have been really many questions, which speak of the importance of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, but let me start by answering those questions first and by clarifying those topics that concerned the law itself. The question is anyone suggesting a list of ministers? In Article 2 I think the existing law clearly states that it is the Croatian Institute of Public Health. So, there is a whole system of ways of registering infectious diseases in Croatia, which is to report from the general medical office through the county institutions of public health, the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the Croatian Institute of the Ministry of Health. Therefore, it is clearly the Croatian Institute of Public Health that proposes to supplement or possibly remove infectious diseases from the list of health ministers. It was a DDD surveillance issue. The supervision of disinfection, disinfection and deratiation is regulated by the following law and you will see this in the following law, which is the Law on Sanitary Inspection Article 3 and clearly states in this law that the supervision of the implementation of the DDD is carried out by the County Public Health Office, and if the County Public Health Offices are conducted by the DDD, in that case the Croatian Public Health Office shall exercise supervision. The penalties for non-implementation shall be governed by Article 76(3) of this Act. The issue of reporting infectious diseases in kindergartens is equally clear and regulated by profession. Namely, family doctors' offices are obliged to report any outbreak of infectious diseases to the competent epidemiological services in public health services, and the epidemiologist then comes forward with an epidemiological test after the report and then takes the necessary epidemiological measures. So that's how it works in all institutions and that's how it works in kindergartens. Let me just see, there were a lot of questions. The issue of differentiation between preventive and preventive mandatory disinfection, disinsectation and deratization. So preventive, here I am now going to repeat the clarification, preventative disinfection, disinfection, deratization is done based on an epidemiological test and it's done that the disease wouldn't occur. Here, I'll try to make the most of it clear. Obligatory prevention is carried out to prevent disease. Therefore, mandatory preventive deratiation in cities and counties is carried out according to their decisions. And what I really have to do, and it's been highlighted in a few discussions, it's a question of education, and I have to be honest that I'm particularly pleased. Here's something in his presentation and his colleague, Bagaric, pointed out. It is good that this debate has opened up the topic of people and of systems that are often not spoken of, and these are people who work in prevention, these are people who work in public health systems and people who work or the public health care system. When you asked my colleague Ostojić, I think I can responsibly claim that Croatia has one of the best public health care systems. It's been known since '93. In Croatia, the Croatian Institute of Public Health and 21 County Institute for Public Health functions as an independent legal person. Therefore, prevention and all jobs and all activities in the health care system are united in the county institutions and the state institution of the public health system. And of course what was a particular question, it's a question of education. I would stress that by law of '97. For years, the School Medicine Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act therefore changed into systems of the Institute or the Institute of Public Health, and as such was divided into that preventive and curative part. The colleagues who work in healthcare always know that if prevention and curatives are combined in one activity that often times then prevention loses the battle at the expense of curatives. That's why, school medicine since '97. The year deals exclusively with prevention. One of the important activities of school medicine is education. So, the standards are 4 thousand, every 4 thousand in the Republic of Croatia goes to one team of school medicine, conducts systematic checks, conducts preventive checks, conducts vaccinations and implements their obligations. In the programme that we pay, which is paid by the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Education, so the education of those youngest ages of school children and students. So I couldn't with certainty, I couldn't agree with the claim that education and that there is no education system in Croatia. However, it is precisely the system of education in these categories of school children that thanks to this, this kind of organization of school medicine is extremely good quality. The question seemed to me or the SDP Club's findings that there is no medical work in Croatia. I think it was a mistake or a lapus. Namely, in Croatia not only is there not a medical work, in Croatian medicine the Croatian Institute of Medicine is working on the work that is now going to the Croatian Institute for Health Protection at Work. We had formed and health special providing HZZO services through which the medical work is financed and over 100 medical work offices. So I think that in Croatia there is a very respectable and important network in the system of medical work. Also, an urgent medical question has been asked. Yeah, I could agree with that. In fact, health outcome indicators in the Republic of Croatia are somewhat worse in emergency healthcare than in developed European Union countries. And that is why the Ministry of Health has developed professional bases, and in the next reform of the health system, it is now going to organise the emergency service in a completely different way, which is the establishment of the Emergency Medicine Institute and 21 County Institute, the separation of pre-patient emergency medicine from the hospital, the construction of united hospital hospital medical receptions. And we signed with the World Bank an 18m-euro loan agreement. In the 7th month, the talks with the World Bank were completed. So, 17 million loans for emergency medical reform. Here, I'd like to thank Mr. Vice President now, and I'd like to thank the honourable MPs. Those are the answers to those questions that I... Yes, allow me, it seems to me that Commissioner Lugaric has also asked questions about educational measures. Of course, I answered something when I spoke about school medicine and public health services, but I would also draw attention to the fact that Article 2 of point 9 of this law does not speak about education, but it does talk about the obligation of information. So information is certainly an education, so the obligation to inform health workers and the public, so I think that this law is regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15151	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's a whole series of corrections, so I'll take it for a while. First, there is no education, student education, but there is no student polyclinic in Zagreb. All of us who have, who are parents of students' children, know that student polyclinics are unfortunately abolished. Second, there is no Enlightenment, no public health action. Like smoking. We forbid smoking now, and the last five actions none of the public health actions that would indicate the harmfulness of smoking, none. Not in the archives of the Parliament, not in the archives of Croatian television or other television. Thirdly, Enlightenment is extremely important, only two organs can last our whole lives, it's the brain because we work with 15% of the brain, so we lucky people who are happier can raise it to 20% and muscle. Education and public health enlightenment are important for this. Thirdly, there is no, there is a Croatian Institute of Medicine on paper, but there are also great people who do so. They're enthusiasts, I thank them. Thank you. But there is no system, there is no health administration. The fourth, fifth secretary of state, works, not words, are a medical epiphany.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15153	I'm concluding a debate on this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15154	3. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 139. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 94 votes are in favour and 1 abstentions to this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15155	We're going to the next point. 4. Final proposal of the Law on Sanitary Inspection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 142 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, European Integration, Labour, Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Drazen Jurkovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the promoter of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, I would like to submit a proposal for a Law on Sanitary Inspection. Therefore, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on Sanitary Inspection contained in Article 2(2) of subparagraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The current Law on Sanitary Inspection sets out the tasks, structure, mode of work, powers, duties of the body of the state administration which carry out and the tasks of the sanitary inspection and the specific conditions for the appointment of sanitary inspectors. The same law stipulates that supervision of the implementation of laws and regulations establishing the protection of human health is carried out by a sanitary inspection and that sanitary supervision includes supervision of persons and activities, buildings, rooms, premises, facilities and devices that can in any way adversely affect human health. Multi-annual application of the applicable law, its analysis and the observed shortcomings, numerous changes in legal and sub-legal regulations from the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection, allow me to mention the Chemical Act, the Biocidal Preparations Act, the Law on genetically modified organisms, the Law on protection against ionising and non-ionising radiation including legislative changes in other areas, and the very dynamic process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union have resulted in the need to create new more modern and European standards adapted to the Law on Sanitary Inspection. The proposed Law on Sanitary Inspection aims to improve the existing system, allow for more effective management of the sanitary inspection, higher degree of coordination through the organisation of the sanitary inspection at national level, which is also the requirements set before the Republic of Croatia by the European Union. The proposed legislation shall be governed by inspection work, organisation and mode of operation of sanitary inspectors. The proposed law provides that inspection tasks are to be carried out over the implementation of laws and regulations establishing the protection of human health in the field of prevention and prevention of infectious diseases, the production and placing on the market of food, including genetically modified organisms, the production and placing on the market of objects of general use, production and placing on the market of chemicals and biocidal products, the protection against noise, protection against ionising and non-ionising radiation, and that it is carried out over buildings, facilities, premises, premises, devices and equipment and persons performing economic activities, activities in the field of health, education and education, social care, catering, tourism, crafts and services, sports and recreation and activities of transport and other public places. What is important is that the proposed law provides for the establishment of a sanitary inspection at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which has not been the case so far. Such a structure will certainly contribute to better quality implementation of the relevant regulations, better and more efficient organisation and coordination and supervision of the work of the sanitary inspection, and thus meet the conditions of Regulation 882/2004 of the European Community. Changes in the system are necessary in order to meet the requirements for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the membership of the European Union. The proposed law also introduces a central information system for sanitary inspection. The introduction of a central information system guarantees the unification of the system of registers, registers, computer programs and ensures effective access to information, supports timely decision-making and guarantees effective management of all segments of the sanitary inspection. The paper in the law is also in the conditions for the reception of sanitary inspectors. So far, the conditions have made it impossible to fill the work of sanitary inspectors especially for working at border crossings. Medical doctors are equated with other professions, the number of years of work experience has been reduced, and the possibility is that any sanitary inspector’s affairs may be performed by any sanitary inspector of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which has not been the case so far. For the first time, this law also provides for a mandate on the spot. For all infringements of the prescribed conditions or non-compliance with the provisions of the legal and sub-legislative regulations in the area of inspection supervision, which will contribute to its effectiveness. So far, sanitary inspectors have been almost in an impossible situation to charge fines on the spot because the penalties prescribed are extremely low and prescribed only for individual situations. It should also be pointed out that the current organisation of the sanitary inspection has seen insufficient equipment, insufficient means of implementation, sampling of professional skills and analysis as well as information and communication equipment by individual counties. In a certain number of counties for many years, the sanitary inspection has no means to take samples of food, drinking water, subject to general use, but to control the situation on the ground based on an assessment of the situation or on its own experience, which is increasingly shown to be insufficient. These shortcomings have led to an unequal position of individual citizens of the Republic of Croatia in terms of health protection and insurance under uniform living conditions. For quality supervision in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to take a yearly view of the population of at least 22 thousand 500 samples of food, water and objects of general use to perform about 200 art in various areas of control. Half of the county inspectors are also not equipped with a computer, fax or mobile phone while two-thirds of them have no access to e-mail or internet, which greatly reduces the rate of crisis inspection response. In line with the implementation of this law in the first financial year, it will be necessary to allocate 50 million kuna for the salaries of inspectors, 7 and a half million kuna for the purchase of vehicles, 16 million kuna for the cause and skill and 2.5 million kuna for equipment, 3.5 million kuna for the purchase and installation of the central information system of communication equipment as well as information and telecommunications networking services, and 4.5 million kuna for offices, equipment, furniture and office materials. The provision of funds will allow uniform supervision in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as in all areas of supervision of the sanitary inspection. In view of the fact that it is a law which complies with the European Union rules in accordance with Article 161(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are proposed to adopt the legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15157	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? For European integration? For health care and welfare? The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15158	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. At its ninth session, the Committee on Health and Social Care considered the Proposal for a Law on Sanitary Inspection with the Final Proposal for a Law as a home working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The members of the board supported the adoption of this law that would improve the existing health system, allow for the effective conduct of the sanitary inspection, and a higher degree of coordination through its centralisation at national level. The analysis of the years-long application of the applicable law warned board members that there are many shortcomings, especially with regard to the establishment of a sanitary inspection and its insufficient material equipment. Sanitary inspection is highlighted by members of the board as one of the pillars of society and protects people's health, and its tasks have been particularly pronounced during the Homeland War, which has passed without any significant epidemic. It is precisely this law that highlighted an extremely important protection of human health and preservation of the overall health standard in the debate. In a series of newspapers provided for by this law, a significant newspaper is the establishment of a sanitary inspection within the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and in the opinion of the members of the Committee, a centralised sanitary inspection will contribute to quality enforcement of the rules, but also control of the work of sanitary inspectors. The introduction of the central information system of the sanitary inspection will enable effective management of all segments of the sanitary inspection. The definition of public health interests has been highlighted by the members of the Committee for the first time in our legislation will address the issue of jurisdiction which will also facilitate the actions of the citizen's representative. The debate warned that the conditions for the reception of sanitary inspectors so far have made it possible to fill these very important jobs significantly. Since the lack of a doctor is a problem, the proposed medical doctors are even with other professions, and a wide range of experts have been offered who can perform the tasks of sanitary inspectors. The quality step, efficiency and conduct of inspection supervision shall be, in the opinion of the members of the committee, for the first time a mandate which may be imposed for the offence at the scene and the execution of the offence. Ensuring the resources necessary for the implementation of this law will achieve, among other things, the satisfactory material equipment of the sanitary inspection and provide uniform supervision in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. After extensive discussion, board members have unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for adoption of the Law on Sanitary Inspection in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15159	Thank you. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15160	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Putting the Proposal for a Law on Sanitary Inspection with the Final Proposal of the Law on the Parliament's agenda for all those working in that service should certainly justify their expectations that it will be better than under this law since 1999 which is unacceptable for the obligations that await us by entering the European Union. The proposer himself states that the current law cannot meet the requirements that the sanitary inspection should be made according to the legal provisions of the European Union. I think it's good to see it, but it's bad if we've been working under legal provisions so far that couldn't ensure that the sanitary inspection protects us from endangering our health and ensures a healthy quality of life. The spread of all possible micro-organisms here and in the previous law was that that endangers our health is very present in nature, in the environments where we live, and especially in the places where we work. A law that is before us a sanitary inspection needs to protect the health of people in the following environments. Prevention and control of infectious diseases, production and placing on the market of food and GMO products, production and placing on the market of general use, production and placing on the market of dangerous chemicals of biocidal products, noise protection and ionising and non-ionising radiation, and sanitary supervision of the building in all economic activities. All that the new law prescribed was in both the obligation and the old one, just asking the question of how it was done. It is evident from the introduction of this material that these tasks have been difficult to solve in full scope. If we start from the facility, and that sanitary inspection was in the Office of State Administration, that they were inadequately equipped with material resources for work and wages, the answer is that they could not fully act on the protection of the population. One example is, for example, the Food Act where sanitary inspectors working in the Office of State Administration do not have the authority to control these supplies, but only sanitary inspectors in the ministry. Probably now that they're entering the Department of Health, that's what they're going to be. For what is certainly the most needed sanitary inspectors, I believe that they perform sampling based on the findings of this material, it has been done insufficiently, especially with the goods from imports. We all read about both chicken and beef from Brazil, which seems to have been the only way to end up on our market. Also, sampling at the border, insufficient sampling at the border is an example of toys that come in containers from overseas countries of the Far East where there are problematic colors for children’s health, toys from which our children are falling off and with which our children are playing, we also found ourselves in our shops. The inspectors tell me when, sanitaryally, when you find such a thing in the store, then you start a big move to pull it back, etc. However, all this is due to insufficient sanitary control at the border, and it is also one of the indicators that the service in this facility is unable to overcome them and to fully protect us. I'll mention another one of, I'm not saying that there's a sanitary inspection guilty but you'll hear what can happen if you don't have enough control. One of the most dramatic examples I have read about is the use of dichlordiphenyl drychlorethan synthetic insecticides that is very effective against all types of insects. But it's also a contact poison with an effect on the nervous system and causes paralysis of extremities, cramps and death. Unfortunately, such a preparation was used by a grandmother to clean her grandchildren from their ears in her hair. One of those treatments died. I must point out that the sanitary inspection oversees and implements the law governing the placing on the market and use and biocidal additives. I have all stated this to support that the current organisation of the sanitary inspection certainly cannot meet the criteria of the work of the same inspection in the European Union but that we too deserve greater protection no matter when we are going to Europe. These so far and alone people working in this inspection are not satisfied, but they warn of what they think is not good and in the new law. I again believe that their remarks that I am going to make should be taken seriously and either give them an answer with an explanation or change the existing proposal for that law. I would move specifically on to some articles, which is, for example, in Articles 4 and 5, talk about the public health interest, and that term should be considered to be more specific to the protection of health, the population of a particular area or the whole country. Why? Because the notion of a population can refer to one, two people, 100, 5 thousand, 10 thousand, and we know from experience that even one man can pose a threat to thousands if he appears as a cause of infectious disease in a place where he can be a transporter. Therefore, public health interests should probably be greater in that segment and more should be done to prevent certain epidemics from being infected. Through the analysis of the number of food epidemics so far, we can undoubtedly conclude that the more risky foods are prepared in hospitality, schools, kindergartens, small producers. Industrial production is under a system that controls in certain key processes and therefore... System,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The analysis critical control point becomes inevitable in the safety of production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means monitoring controls during the production of all factors directly affecting the quality and health of food production. In the realization of the control of individuals working under these conditions, I consider it irreplaceable and sanitary inspection. It is evident from this that a person can endanger a wider population if he is inadequately handling foods or is a hidden callinologist who has not been diagnosed as such and is prevented from handling food. At the same time, however, sanitary inspection protects people and their health, for example, from excessive noise in the process of issuing building permits. How to intervene when an individual thinks he is threatened by noise, while others in the building or surrounding facilities do not react. How do you treat public health interests here compared to the population? This part should certainly be better explained and defined through accompanying acts, as this will address the issue of the inspector's competence in the complaints of citizens. This means that these inspectors don't spend on some, because they say they have procedures that go through the same thing year after year, or I say suppresses or with their observations is present and the thing isn't such a thing that it's one of the public health interests. Article 14 also regulates the hierarchical structure within the sanitary inspection which becomes part of the Ministry of Health, which is certainly good. However, there is no clear difference between individual levels of sanitary inspectors. Senior state health inspector, state health inspector, senior health inspector and health inspector. It is evident from the law that everyone can do everything and state inspectors have the right to adopt a second-degree solution to the first-degree solution of the sanitary inspector without the right to appeal, but only with the possibility of starting a administrative dispute. This is Article 32(3). It is the law to establish a sanitary inspection exclusively under the Ministry of Health, however, not sufficiently defined and units of the regional administration, Article 14(9) and how they operate in relation to the administration. This is also a question to be explained and defined in the accompanying acts brought by the minister because here we have seen has a chief sanitary inspector, his deputy, which means that these are regional administrations, that there will be a hierarchy and who will be responsible to whom. I mean, because any centralization can certainly lead to those in the central area who do what is often not being seen down and some implementing acts stopping precisely because of that lack of coordination. So I think these regional administrations should better define them by following acts that are likely to be brought by the minister. And lastly, I think another important issue like this, and this is the conditions for the reception of a sanitary inspector who has been a hindrance to fill jobs especially for working at the border crossings, and I've been saying everything that just happened because of an under-quality and insufficient inspection at the borders. Expansion with several professions that can be a sanitary inspector, I mean, they point out here especially doctors of medicine, I think it's good, but I think with a lot of other professions, I'd add the possibility that even the doctors of veterinary medicine can work in a sanitary inspection. All of this will certainly make it easier to fill these places and do better work. The activities of a normal and state health inspector may be carried out by a person with the said degree profession, which shall be indicated for 12 months of work in the profession and the professional examination carried out. However, for the tasks of the senior state and senior health inspector, the condition is 5 years of work in the profession. I've heard that and I personally think of the people who work here I think you should add that out of those five years there should be work on the affairs of the sanitary inspection. Now it's been in the old law for five years working in a sanitary inspection. I don't think it has to be such a strict criterion, but still someone to be a senior state inspector or a senior health inspector. I think it would be a good idea to spend some time in that profession, because for five years, someone could've been working on construction, construction, some company, so he could come all of a sudden for a senior state inspector because he's got five years of work in the profession. It's good to fill these places, but it's also important to be with quality people who know their jobs and in which business they've previously proven themselves to be such. And in the end, we need the law to protect people, but also to create conditions for the work of a sanitary inspection. But what was said in the introduction was how little was done and how few of these were inspection controls because of the inability, because they weren't money, etc. I don't think we can allow this anymore, because that's not even going to create the conditions of our inspection as a sanitary inspection does. In Europe, we will not be sure to be compatible with this sanitary inspection. Therefore, in the end, the SDP club will support this law, with the hope and the proposed remarks that I have made, which are observations and the professions themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15161	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15162	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleges. Sanitary inspection shall exercise control over the implementation of laws and regulations establishing the protection of human health, and shall include supervision of persons and activities, buildings, premises, premises, facilities and devices which may in any way adversely affect human health. According to the Law on Sanitary Inspection of the “National Journal” 27/99, certain tasks are the structure, mode of work, powers and duties of the body of the state administration which carry out the tasks of the sanitary inspection. So what are the jobs, which is surveillance, let me briefly repeat them to see the width of the area covered by this law and the importance of the sanitary inspection as the president of the club that should be the pillar of society said. In any case, the law provides for the implementation of measures to prevent the prevention of infectious diseases, the production, control of the production and transport of foodstuffs and items of general use, the fulfilment of sanitary and technical hygiene conditions in the process of issuing a building permit, or local building permits for which no construction permit is issued during construction under a specific regulation, and in the procedure of issuing a useful permit for buildings subject to sanitary supervision. Therefore, surveillance of sources of ionising and non-ionising radiation, the implementation of specific protection measures on the work of employees and the rest of the population which are under working conditions or under other conditions exposed to the action of ionising, non-ionising radiation in accordance with the rules on protection against ionising and non-ionising radiation. Production and transport of medicinal products, medical and homeopathic products, production and transport of poisons, implementation of noise protection measures, control of drinking water, parts of buildings and equipment for drinking water supply, waste water and solid waste, and buildings and devices for processing, disposal and disposal. Construction, facilities and space, rooms, devices and equipment of persons performing economic activities and activities in the field of health, education, social care, hospitality, tourism, crafts and services of sports and recreation, as well as transport activities in other public places. People employed in workplaces where, given their health conditions, they can endanger the health of the rest of the population. By monitoring the implementation of public protection measures against the harmful effects of tobacco processing. Control of sanitary nodes in buildings, exhumation and transfer of dead persons carried out in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the transfer of dead persons across the border. So, from what we've been told, it's quite obvious how wide the area is, I'm not going to tell the field because somehow football terminology hasn't been going very well lately covering this law, but also how important it is. But with the analysis of the years of application of the existing law, certain shortcomings have been observed. I'd say the first one could be said that this law is obsolete. Why? Because it is already said that many laws have been passed, hence the new Chemical Act, the Biocidal Products Act, the Poison Act and the Food Act and the GMO Act, etc. Surely, then, it is not in any way consistent. The second moment mentioned here today is insufficient material resources that are always issues. Therefore, the means to conduct sampling of food, water and other sampling are certain to be insufficient and there are exceptional differences from county to county. A third significant and informative equipment of course etc. And the third moment which is also insufficient personnel in the sanitary inspection. In our country, about 120 inspectors operate in some ways, and according to some norms, a single inspector would be required for 15 000 inhabitants. So that's one of the moments that's also very important to point out. All of this, of course, results in the need to develop new modern European standards of tailored law and which is now ahead of us. This is precisely why it aims to improve this law proposed, the existing system, to allow for more effective treatment of sanitary inspection, higher degree of coordination and through the organisation of sanitary inspections at national level. And these are, of course, the demands made by the European Union before the Republic of Croatia and which will, of course, support the Croatian Democratic Community club. Now, what are the important moments, the important changes that the proposed law makes. I would sort of put them under six points. It's about the structure first. So, as a colleague has said so far, the state administration's offices have been in charge of that section. But the proposed law provides for the establishment of a sanitary inspection at the Ministry of Health and Social Care which has not been the case so far. Surely, such a structure will contribute to better quality implementation of certain relevant regulations and better and more efficient organisation, coordination, supervision of the work of the sanitary inspection. It's going to be kind of one let's say centralised, maybe it's not a word, but anyway, that's the case. Therefore, it is necessary to mention that, of course, the moment from the strategy to strengthen the health inspection of CARDS in 2002 is also being fulfilled. The second moment is therefore to introduce the central information system of the sanitary inspection which is also the implementation from the above-mentioned project... the central information system shall ensure the unification of the register register system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've heard about some previous laws about how important registers are and so on. It will certainly improve this area and contribute to better efficiency. The third newspaper, as we have heard, is first defined in our legislation of public health interest in order to facilitate sanitary inspectors' actions in terms of citizens' performances and so on. I think it's very important to mention. The fourth newspaper, what we said was insufficient personnel, so the reception of the sanitary inspectors. So far, the conditions have in some way made it impossible to fill and so on, and I believe that this moment that doctors are equating with others that doctors will of course be happy because in any case it is true that doctors can do the job in quality and finally let doctors once in a while control someone not to be constantly subject to control. So that, it's important to mention. I further want to say here are the penalties mentioned as well. Therefore, the mandate on the spot for all infringements of the prescribed conditions is envisioned and will be greater. And that's the point, important mention. So far, they were small, so many who broke the law made fun of it and so on. I believe this moment will certainly contribute to a more efficient, efficient operation of the sanitary inspection. And the sixth, therefore, and another moment to give authority to the Minister of Health to carry out other measures which have not been laid down by law in the event of special circumstances. And perhaps seven will say that the funds will be necessary, of course, to provide some 80 million in the first year of implementation. This is always the case with every law to say, and I believe that this proposed Law on Sanitary Inspection therefore respects the specificity of the time and process of our country's accession to the European Union and will therefore enable the effective implementation of legislation from the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection that is in line with the acquis of the European Union and which will be supported by the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15163	Thank you. Club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15164	Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. In the Club of the Croatian People's Party we have thoroughly passed this bill and we have a relatively large number of questions and remarks. Well, here's the telegraph. First of all, the promoter did not convince us that this law improves the system of sanitary inspection or convinces us that it ensures a higher degree of coordination of this inspection. That's what we have to say right away. We are pleased that the promoter finally realized that this service belongs to the Ministry of Health because it also aims to protect people’s health. The promoter has assured us that at this point sanitary inspectors do not have the means to take samples but to make decisions based on their own experience and personal assessments, which is unfortunate. More than sad. But that's why we're going to another extreme now. The promoter didn't convince us that it was necessary to buy hundreds of cars at once. And yesterday, we didn't even have a sample. He didn't convince us that an average of 250,000 kuna per county office should be spent to edit an office in 20 counties when we know what the price of one computer is, then the office equipment seems to be very large. He also did not convince us that as much as half a million euro should be allocated to the information system. Furthermore, the applicant did not explain to us in Article 14 whether the Chief Sanitary Inspector and his deputy political functions or professional functions were. In fact, we don't know if there's a public competition or if there's any other way to reach the Chief Inspector. We'll see how to reach his deputy. But how to get to the first man, no one knows. In the same Article 14 paragraph 8, we do not know what the relationship between senior sanitary inspectors and senior state inspectors is compared to those is called lower. Is it possible for a state inspector, for example, not a senior state inspector, a state inspector with, for example, a year of training, colleagues not in inspection, in the profession of a biologist architect to decide in the second degree on the decision of his fellow senior health inspector from the county who has 20 years of work in the inspection. That seems amazing to us. According to this proposal, it seems possible. Article 15 says that all these waist profiles can do anything. A fellow doctor knows all about infectious diseases. Chemical chemist. But the doctor about chemicals almost nothing and vice versa. The architect of buildings, construction materials. Doctor and chemist very little about it. Are we going to have six sanitizers to come out together, to be complete? I think we've been doing a little too wide-ranging professions that I can behave and do this job. So countless professions can work in a sanitary inspection, or maybe it was a prophesy that basically doesn't change much because we've hired these or those people somewhere, so let's keep them instead of getting stricter, increasingly critical, increasingly stricter criteria we here seem to be doing a lot of damage to the sanitary inspection. In fact, these God - given people are even infallible because Article 32 says that a first - degree solution brought by a state health inspector cannot complain but can only be triggered by administrative dispute. My colleagues and colleagues here are talking about a very, very important law. This law aims to cover one of the most dynamic areas in all human activities. We all know how much we discussed two years ago, here's a part of us sitting here for a long time, about genetically modified organisms. Half an hour ago about new infectious diseases. We all know how quickly science progresses in these areas and how difficult it is to monitor these areas. The Sanitary Inspector who finished school 20 years ago, how much does he know about genetically modified organisms? I'm asking you. Did this law provide the means for their permanent education, which I think is fundamental, most important and only important. How is their education done? Who's watching her? Not a word of it. When it comes to the environment, then in Europe you will see more and more articles very interesting on this topic and the impact of the environment on health. It's not just an environment at work anymore, the one on the street, at school. Believe it or not, today is the most contaminated and dangerous environment in your home and my home. Not because we are parliamentarians, but because we live in a specific way. While our colleagues and colleagues of our grandmothers had just soap in the house, let's call it a chemical, our mothers started using detergents and softeners to make you, our generation, and especially a generation of our children when you open the closet, then you have hundreds of all kinds of sprays. Every commercial goes with one spray, lotion, fat, gel, I don't know what not. Is it possible to simply follow? Absolutely not, but that's why more and more allergic diseases, more respiratory diseases, more and more genetic malformations because of these and such substances that we use every day, and we don't even know what we do in our house. And here we don't even mention that we should allow these people to go to school and keep track of everything they need to know in this area. If I were to give this bill a grade today, I'd give him a passing grade, but it's a big question if that's the case in 2, 3 or 4 years. Let's be objective. Here, I think I've made myself very clear and I'd like you to answer some of these questions for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15165	Thank you. 2 Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang first.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15166	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague of mine with a superficial interpretation of this law actually said a whole series of inaccuracies. I'll make it right as long as I can. The promoter, I quote, did not convince us that it would achieve better coordination with this law. Well, of course it will achieve better coordination because for the first time, but in the sense of European regulations, we have a centralised inspection in the ministry that becomes responsible. So the responsibility is centralised no longer distanced. Then he didn't convince us that there was so much money to improve the system. In fact, in the text of the law, you have exactly as specific normative as how many inspectors, how many vehicles, how many causes. Therefore, at the exact cost of the service, you can calculate that the legislator provided sufficient resources. Pitta, according to Article 15, claims that six Sanitaries will go together. No, each will go according to their profession as it has been until now, only now are these professions adapted to new additions. Finally, did we secure permanent education, says the legislator does not claim it. You have a nice article in article 17 that the obligation of the Ministry of Health and Social Care Administration and permanent education and training and professional training of sanitary inspectors, so the legislator has answered your questions that you distort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15167	And another correction, MP Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I also find that my colleague has said more inaccuracies, but here's only this first one where he said that this law will not convince him that better coordination and more effective work of inspection is. This is absolutely not true and it is precisely this law that radically changes the whole story in the sense that inspections are being set up as one special administration within the Ministry of Health, meaning that the data of the inspection report are also being centralized, that one new database is being introduced and that is exactly in line with European Union standards, especially when it comes to food safety, where it has just been insisted on and in terms of the negotiations. Also, another thing that's said here that sanitary inspection can deal with countless professions and that everyone can do anything. That's not true. So, the sanitary inspection in his job description has a large number of tasks, from food safety, to ionising and non-ionizing radiation, plants, etc., etc. which requires a large number of specialised knowledge, i.e. a large number of professions, and the description of jobs is part of the systematization, structure and way of handling of inspection, which clearly does not need to be detailedly regulated by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15169	For the Club of Representatives of the HSS, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15170	Dear Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Peasants' Club will support the adoption of the Sanitary Inspection Act. We believe that the adoption of this law is extremely important because the situation in the sanitary inspection today is neither great nor wonderful and far from ideal. It is known that for many years a sanitary inspection in a number of counties does not have the means to take samples of food, drinking water and general use items, so the situation on the ground controls its own assessments based on the experience of inspectors. Therefore, Croatian citizens have also been brought into an unequal position in terms of health protection and ensuring uniform living conditions. For this reason, we welcome the adoption of this law because it is precisely this law that needs to be ensured by a completely new system of functioning of a sanitary inspection dealing with a number of activities, as my colleagues have already mentioned before. In certain counties, 5 inspectors are used only by one official car and twice a week at the most, so each of which is why the inspection is literally paralyzed. Even half the inspectors don't have a computer, 2/3 of them have it, they don't have access to e-mail, or the Internet. Also, half of the inspectors have no fax or cell phone, and it is generally similar to the situation in basic equipment with office furniture and accessories. This certainly reduces the rate of response in crisis situations and, of course, if we want to have an effective inspection service, and this is not just an example of sanitary inspection but it is specific because it is organised in a way that is managed by state administration offices, then we must certainly give that inspection instruments in hand to be able to exercise control on the ground. In order to bring the existing sanitary inspection into some order and in a normal state, it is certain that significant financial resources should also be allocated. According to the proposal of this law, not counting the salary of inspectors, it takes 7 and a half million kuna to get vehicles, so that each county or sanitary inspection in the county gets four additional vehicles and needs another 26.5 million kuna for equipment, for sanitary sampling and craftsmanship, and computers and other equipment they need. The biggest news of the new Law on Sanitary Inspection is the transfer of sanitarys from the State Administration's wing so locally under the supervision of the Ministry of Health. So far, it has been shown through a number of cases that the sanitary inspection within the local state administration is not working properly, that the superiors of the state administration in the district units, that some of them do not have an excessive hearing about the need for the service of the sanitary inspection, although the money transferred for their work ends in some other projects or in other departments. The existing law says that the inspection from its budget pays for sampling food, water or general use items in case the finding is negative, but for this reason and because of lack of funds, inspection prefers to skip, and the same provision does not change in the new law. And our proposal from the HSS Club would be to change that anyway, because it's important for us to have an effective inspection that will be able to carry out controls, and not that will be afraid to exercise control because it knows that it will have to pay later, without enough money. The reception of border sanitary inspectors in the service is significantly simplified, and this is a job for which so far there has been little interest because they were too high criteria. The potential sanitary resident at the border now has to be more than just a doctor of medicine, a specialist of preventive branches, but can also be an engineer of biochemistry, a food engineer and the like. Of course, it is this border inspection that is extremely important and we welcome this change in the provisions of the law because it is the sanitary inspection that controls the border of what is entering Croatia, and we are witnessing that because of the different trade contracts that are signed that enter Croatia, that it is on the border of about 100 problematic products. They mainly come from the European Union to Croatia, and they come from China to the European Union, and in the same China, 200 factories used in their health-threatening industrial chemicals were closed in just a few months. So sometimes we may not appreciate enough that the sanitary inspection works for us and at first it prevents such harmful products from coming to our market. The most common reasons for the ban on imports of products or their withdrawal from shelves are invalid cans, mold, increased concentration of bacteria or pesticides, which has been the case in some pears, banned paints and especially additives. After the examination of the product and documentation, the sanitary inspection shall also carry out laboratory analysis. If the product is not shown to be correct, it shall be returned to the consignor or destroyed at the cost of the importer. What we think is necessary to establish is a database of importers who have these suspicious products, because they obviously re-emerge with each shipment as re-reciprocalists. Of course, there is an important role in this whole process for the Food Agency, but also for our labs. We at HSS are particularly interested in the recent accreditation of laboratories for the analysis of genetically modified organisms. This is also foreseen by the coalition agreement. It is known that we advocate the ban on seed and the use of genetically modified seeds, to prohibit the production of such products, but we are aware that such products enter Croatia. We insist in the HSS that they be marked, but that they be strictly controlled to avoid any misunderstandings, and there have been all kinds of news over the past years. Well, we remember that the head man of the Osijek food control laboratory was even removed because he announced that individual products placed on the market in Croatia contain GMOs. In order not to speculate whether he was right or someone else, I think our labs need accreditation, and then we'll make sure that we provide real information to the public, but to protect our consumers. Therefore, the HSS Club certainly advocates the most recent accreditation of GMO laboratories, but also of all those laboratories that should be available in the service not only for sanitary inspections, but which serve to actually control products that are placed on the market. Inspectors find things in goods that come from other countries. There were lead in ground cinnamon from Indonesia, inadmissible paints in chili peppers from India, enterobacteria in teeth from Argentina, illicit iron concentrations in olives from Greece, pesticides in pears from Italy, and there could be many more. Therefore, the inspection controls the food that is not produced in Croatia and is imported, while the manufacturer in Croatia is responsible for the food he puts on the market. And for this reason, taught by experience, we at HSS, and this way, we order "bought Croatian".
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15171	Thank you. HDSSB Representatives' Club. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15172	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is from these previous presentations, and also from the materials that we have received in connection with the Proposal for the Law on Sanitary Inspection, with the final proposal of the Law, it is also evident that the work of sanitary inspections in the county and the State Sanitary Inspection has been somewhat indistinguishable, which is also indirectly recognised and what is indirectly shown here after the pay phone. As a result, it is quite justified that this law has come into the assembly benches and bears the "E" mark, so European law harmonising the sanitary or sanitary inspection law with the European laws that are here and listed at the end of this proposal. When we promote close points and articles in this law, then it is what is fundamental, which is Article 4, which states that the public health interest is to implement measures and procedures aimed at protecting the health of the population of a given area and/or the whole country. From this to say the basic article comes all, all the further articles and what is further stated in these articles. I would particularly refer to the fact that, above all, perhaps vice versa, the formation, the establishment of a health inspectorate of the Ministry of Health in charge of further management, in which it is numbered from the Director of Administration, the Chief Inspector, the Chief Inspector, the Chief Inspector, the Inspector of State Inspectors of State, etc. I think that there could be places here, given that Article 4 said that the sanitary inspection applied to the areas and to all of Croatia, and given certain specificities of some areas, that the inspector could be appointed by the regions, so the inspector for Slavonia and Baranja, the inspector for Dalmatia, Gorski Kotar, Primorje etc. I therefore think that this would increase one efficiency, but the specificity of each of these regions would also be respected on the issues of the detour of the work of the sanitary inspection. This is exactly what the articles describe, in part of the work of the sanitary inspection and the scope and type of business, do not show that the sanitary inspection is concerned, although it is said to be a public health interest, air and water pollution. Clearly, it may overlap with the responsibility of the Ministry of Environmental Protection with the sanitary inspection, but if I give you an example, one example or more examples, and starting with that stream by the Karlovska brewery, I don't know who was responsible for it, and then another is an asphalt base that's in the middle of the town of Brod, Slavonski Brod, which has 80 thousand inhabitants pollute the air or one mahout of heat and more of them in the center of it, the unfortunate Slavonski Brod, where there's absolutely an increased amount of sulfur dioxide in the air, and I'm asking if here in these articles on duties, the rights of the sanitary inspection should be included, therefore, air and water pollution. We have an unfortunate ambrosia that we are already discussing to say that every unit of local self-government has a problem in which an increased amount of allergens are in the air. Is that also the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection and whether or not that part of it is being said, perhaps if it overlaps with the responsibilities of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, we can also say, or that, together with the employees of that ministry, there is an insight and a sanitary inspection on these issues, and this is not mentioned here. Thus, it is clear in Article 28. If appropriate, appropriate controlled products are to be established in the inspection procedure under the conditions laid down by law and other regulation, the inspector shall take samples in production, I would add either to the technological process or to the market. So here's the suggestion, so it's clear that the asphalt base doesn't work every day but works occasionally. Thus, it is a technological process that occasionally throws out huge amounts of soot and all other ingredients in the air, in the densest populated part of the city like Slavonski Brod, and I believe there are similar cases in Croatia yet. That’s what I’m saying also because in Article 13 there’s a special focus on noise. So if noise is the object of a sanitary inspection, which is why it can't be what I'm talking about, so air and water pollution and it can be measured like noise. They have instruments and standards to measure it. When I talk about regional inspections, therefore, because in the law at point in Article 4 and it talks about protection, sanitary inspection of the area, then I say it for a reason because, let's say in Slavonia, let's say in particular in Osijek, there is also a GMO laboratory as Mrs Petir said, there are colleges of agriculture, technology and others who can fully satisfy them if we clearly register them as such in connection with the work of the sanitary inspection, so we report, which can fully meet all the requirements of a modern sanitary inspection that is equal in any European, Western European state. Therefore, there is no reason, since this is supported by chance or not, and in the articles of the law, not to be the chief inspector for Dalmatia sanitary dish, the Chief Inspector for Slavonia and Baranja with clear means and means, information and binding, network link with the Chief State Inspector clearly in Zagreb at the Ministry of Health, i.e. in the health inspectorate in Croatia. In any case, I'd like to hear what the ministry's gentlemen think about them, but the proposal for a Law on Sanitary Inspection is progress. It is clear that the progress made in relation to the previous law and the previous one, and I think that the work of the sanitary inspection will be improved if the law is applied and in this form, but I would like both these remarks made by me and my fellow representatives to be respected, clearly, that this bill would be acceptable in that case for the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15173	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15174	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Very often in this assembly, all MPs of this House like to say that in front of us are on the benches of a very important law that is in the procedure that we are harmonising with the legal gains of the European Union. But indeed, this Law of Sanitary Inspection certainly states that it is a vital and very important law that affects almost all segments of life and all in the interest of protecting people’s health. From everything presented in the presentation of both the promoter and the secretary of state and all the representatives of the clubs, it is obvious that we will all in this assembly hope to agree that the content of this law really represents an almost comprehensive matter of sanitary inspection in society. And I will focus and try to repeat the debate we had on the Committee on Health and Conclusions of the Health Committee read and Professor Hebrang, so let's just see what is the scope and supervision that will carry out the future sanitary inspection. I'll try to analyze a few articles. If we just look at Article 6 which is very important and not accidentally put in the first place, the leading place of surveillance is surveillance in the area of the prevention of infectious diseases, so we have control over the implementation of general measures to prevent the prevention of infectious diseases. We also received a bill just before we passed on prevention where it is clearly said that supervision is required to ensure the health of food, the health of drinking water, then the health of swimming water, bathing water and full control of the waters in the Republic of Croatia. Second, insurance sanitary, technical hygiene conditions in public places, buildings in public transport. We also have specific measures for the prevention and control of infectious diseases in the prevention of infectious diseases, so it says that monitoring must be in the direct detection of the source of infection and the pathways of spread, laboratory examination of the cause of infectious disease, reporting, transport, isolation and treatment of patients. So it's all part of one surveillance of the sanitary inspection. Mandatory against epidemic action, disinfection, deratiation, disinsectation, and, of course, one newspaper here says there will be monitoring to prevent hospital infections. We also see in Article 7 which prescribes how to monitor the sanitary inspection in the area of food production and placing on the market. So we see that the health level of food controls the sanitary inspection, whether in production or when it is placed on the market. Very important, the import of food whether for processing, processing or placing on the market, controls the conditions of hygiene of the food area. Not so little, says surveillance and the health status of people who are in the food production process or in contact with food. Of course the implementation of all these laws will be in accordance with the Food Act. I would refer to Article 9 concerning the sanitary inspection in the field of production, marketing and use of dangerous chemicals. If we remember and this House has passed the Chemical Act, no less important inspection of surveillance is the control of ionising and non-ionising radiation, so inspection controls are subject to import, export, transport and transport of source of ionising radiation through the Republic of Croatia. And, of course, the very important fact of surveillance is to control the disposal of waste ionizing radiation, which has been very often misused because of the lack of sanitary inspectors. To list all the tasks we still have in the debate we had on the Health Committee, and here I see the HSS Club particularly stressed, inspection surveillance on generic modified organisms. Thus, he says, in rare cases so far, there has been an opportunity due to lack of inspection to enter the Republic of Croatia without the records of the sanitary inspection, and now clearly in this law, the supervision of cross-border transportation of GMOs products containing or originating from GMOs and the restriction of the use of GMOs. I think this law gives the sanitary inspection really great powers and the powers it needs to be able to carry out this surveillance. In this law there is also a detailed description of the structure of the sanitary inspection that is now passing from the State Administration to the Ministry of Health and I think we all agree, to welcome that we have in one place centralized with all these measures that are listed as being managed in one place. Clearly, the law does not unequivocally determine the structure of the staff, how to choose sanitary inspectors. But in my debate, however, I will touch in my opinion the biggest problem of implementing this law that I consider to be very good, which is personnel and material resources. Namely, as discussed and said, the multiannual application of the current Law on Sanitary Inspection and its analysis has shown many shortcomings particularly related to the establishment of sanitary inspection, material equipment, means of conducting expert analyses and skills, and especially the lack of information communication, information equipment, and I dare say the education of our sanitary inspectors for computer work. In certain counties for many years, the sanitary inspection has no means of taking samples of food, drinking water, other inspection controls that are not carried out, but is carried out on the basis of the experience of the inspector. This is not the way in which the conduct of inspection supervision leads to an unequal position of the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia in terms of health protection and ensuring uniform living conditions throughout the territory. As we see in the proposed final proposal of the Law on Sanitary Inspection, the number of employees or inspectors should be at least one inspector per 15 thousand inhabitants. At this point, according to the data we have reached, I ask the Secretary of State to correct if they are guilty, in the State Administration of the Republic of Croatia for about 70 sanitary inspectors of the City of Zagreb, that is 120. Under the new law, please, these are the data that I have received and may not be correct, and according to the new law of 15 thousand inhabitants, we should have about 350 to 400 sanitary inspectors in the Republic of Croatia. And now I'm wondering about you, as well as the secretary of state, if we can do with these personnel and equipment, so we have certain counties where one inspector only works, or if two of them are on sick leave to do all these tasks that we've listed and that they've put into law. But whether the information equipment that does not have or does not work on it does the material resources... Mr. Doric spoke of. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I think that's all the part that can be improved relatively quickly, so I see that the bill provides 80 million kuna for these purposes in the 2009 budget, i.e. in the budget projection, because the budget has not yet come out, which is really to praise that the law has foreseen and the funds. But I must say that the part relating to the personnel will be far the hardest to complete. Under the current conditions, namely, like I said, I'm coming from the carlova County and I'm going to say, from which county, and someone also mentioned to the Karlovačka brewery and Potok, that at this point in the carlovakia county, three or four inspectors work, according to the new law in our county should work at least 9 sanitary inspectors to fully implement such a law. Now I'm asking myself, and I'm asking all of us here at the House where we find so many professional, educational people who would like to come work in the state administration, or at the Department of Health, let's be realistic about the salary of 5.6,000 kuna, with daily calling, many times and unjustly and the media of all for the ineffectiveness of their work and of course corruption. And I really think this is the biggest problem facing the implementation of this law. I'll tell you again on the example and my county which is with high education personnel in any structure that we want to work in the state administration. In Karlovac County, we have opened a tender for a year for the issue of construction permits for a graduate engineer of construction and a graduate engineer of architecture. And you know what we got in a year's time for a constant open competition? Three more employees went to work in the private sector because they got better conditions and better salaries there. And we have a far bigger problem. And so this High House, too, I think, will have to work in the future to make sure that our highly educated, professional people we want in the state services adequately rewarded and paid, then their impact of work will be far greater. Finally, I must commend the legislator of this law and your secretary of state that you have also thought about this problem of personnel, and if we look at Article 15, which high education personnel can be I apologize, which can be chosen, I apologize, two more sentences, I see that with the doctor of medicine there is now a really large and wide range of higher education people who can be sanitary inspectors. [[And if we look at the traffic lights, too.]] And I hope we can solve this problem. I absolutely support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15175	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law, which is ahead of us, deals with a very important topic directly concerning the health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Health is the responsibility of every citizen in particular and, of course, towards himself and others. And for the purpose of preventing public health violations, the state is obliged, among other institutions, to establish a solid and compact sanitary inspection, and to define its work in a strict way but also to ensure sound control mechanisms in order to ensure that public health is fully ensured. Sanitary inspection is one of the supervisory services with the longest history within the state, and let us remember, in its time, the Dubrovnik Republic has developed a very efficient system, institutions, principles and rules on the protection of citizens' health. Of course, the danger to human health has been increasing over time, and the sanitary inspection has spread its scope. The essence of the sanitary inspection is the prevention of potential threats, and it aims to continuously improve and adapt to the technological development of society. Of course, in the work of the sanitary inspection so far, there have been a number of problems that are manifested everywhere and in the absence of qualified sanitary inspectors, they are often left to self-initiative actions, there are insufficient possibilities for improvement, there is a major problem and lack of equipment, as well, of course due to lack of finance. Unfortunately, we also see in this report, in fact, in this law in the opening section, we see that in certain counties only one car is used to say five inspectors, the lack of computer equipment, of course all of this reduces the effectiveness of the sanitary inspection and especially in crisis situations. The situation is also.../Short interruption in the video./... in Croatia which brings citizens into an unequal position of protection, i.e. the possibility of prevention. The new draft law on sanitary inspection brings several newspapers that have not been present before. A new law, as we have heard, introduces a central information system that would, of course, facilitate further work of the sanitary inspection. The conditions of employment of sanitary or inspectors would change, and the paper is also punishment on the spot, which should contribute to greater efficiency in the work of the sanitary inspection. This law regulates the amount of finance necessary for the uniform work of sanitary inspection throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the needs of procurement, work equipment, IT equipment. As Mr. Doric mentioned, I am concerned that there is not exactly a certain part of the funding involved and the education of all these profiles that would work as sanitary inspectors because I believe it is very important. It provides for the establishment of a sanitary inspection at the Ministry of Health and Social Care which should contribute to the quality implementation of the laws and regulations, as well as the quality of the work of the sanitary inspection. According to the report, one of the objectives set out in the strategy for strengthening the sanitary inspection within... CARDS projects and compliance with the conditions of Regulation 882. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To consult with the profession, there is no indication that in the context of the twing of the CARDS project in 2002, a strategy to strengthen the sanitary inspection in the Republic of Croatia is required to specify that the sanitary inspection must be organised centrally within the Ministry of Health. The possibility of strengthening the sanitary inspection in a decentralised system with greater connection to the Ministry of Health and Social Care is set out. It also does not state that Regulation 882 sets out a request for the central organisation of the sanitary inspection at the Ministry of Health but that this Regulation requires vertical coordination and treatment for all as well as for the central planning and supervision of the exercise of the field control service which can also be achieved through decentralised design forms. I think my colleagues mentioned it before. And mentioning several European Union countries that have a decentralised system of sanitary inspections. These are: Spain, Romania, Finland, Ireland, Slovakia and so on. Then I'd like to refer to a few more articles. My colleagues have already been instructed before content. Here I would refer to Article 13 where I think it should be detailed in the Law on Sanitary Inspection all phases of, say, the conduct of the Sanitary Inspection and align this law with the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning, or the Construction Act. Then I wonder why so many graduations if everyone, the senior inspector of the state and so on, are all under the ministry. In a consultation with the profession, I felt a handicap of a senior sanitary inspector and a sanitary inspector at the level of the field office with the knowledge that a young employee health inspector, a beginner who starts working at the ministry, was immediately becoming a senior state or senior state inspector. I'd like to refer to article 18 that says how many inspectors go to the population. So he says one inspector goes to 15 thousand residents. For example, Dubrovnik, 60 thousand inhabitants should, no, 5.6 inspectors, however, increase in the majority of the year and increase in some parts by 80%. So maybe you could find other options for the number of inspectors. Besides, it's not the same at the level of the entire state. It is not the same continental and coastal state precisely because of, part of Croatia, just because of these allegations so far. Next, Article 43, which states that civil servants found themselves in inspection work in the Office of State Administration in Countys, are being taken over by the Ministry. We're wondering what happened to the other officers? What about lawyers, secretaries, administrative staff? Then I would also refer to Article 6 where it says preventing the prevention of infectious diseases. It should be defined what the concept of swimming pool waters means, or how supervision and implementation of the laws on swimming pools will be arranged, since there is no single rules on swimming pools and each county is managed in its own way. There is, however, a Regulation on safety at regulated bathing sites, but it deals exclusively with the technical side of security and does not define sanitary standards. For example, in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, part of the county is done according to the decision of the former municipality of Dubrovnik in 1975 with completely unacceptable physico-chemical microbiological standards. What's absurd is that in other parts we don't have that either. The question is, what are the possibilities, what are the possible consequences of the epidemic, and who would be responsible? Of course, the article on swimming pool water control should also be included in the Law on Sanitary Inspection. But it would also be directed to define ways and mechanisms of control. Finally, we believe that this law is not a priority of tight commitment to the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union, and I do not think it must be adopted by hasty procedure. Sanitary inspection is one of the oldest supervisory services and has been continuously decentralised in our premises. Once in the municipalities, later in the counties and now in the offices of the county's state administration. This is certainly not without reason because the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection is, in the most part, very closely linked to the daily problems of the lives of citizens and the pursuit of the activities of natural and legal persons and all from the aspect of taking measures to protect human health. It is, of course, necessary to highlight the coordination role of the central authority of the state administration. The Ministry of Health and Social Care, primarily in order to ensure uniform treatment in the exercise of sanitary supervision, regulation of uniform standards and instructions for the handling or provision of funds and for the effective effective exercise of supervision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15177	Thank you very much. At 12 and 28, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. One notice from the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament will hold a thematic session to mark the National Day of Combating Violence against Women today at 13:30 in Josip Šokčević's Hall, the Small Council. And now they would interrupt the session and continue at 3:00 to allow for the number of MPs who would like to be present at the funeral of our former representative and Minister Juraj Njavri. So we continue the session at 3:00 with the debate of Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15178	Mr. Vice President, Mr. MPs. Here's a chance to read that 95 people were translated into Index. I repeat once again the word of 95 people between them is also the head of the Parliamentary Committee for Conflict of Interest or a pardon committee for conflict of interest. Well, if Croatia were in one deep crisis, we know that Croatia is so corrupt, I didn't know that, but I think that after this someone should at least address this House. Because as we have the opportunity to see our entire institutions fall apart. I don't judge anything in advance, but if all our institutions are, look out for gentlemen in some way to the extent corrupt, then man asks himself the question of where this society goes. Because this kind of eats our substance, so we didn't get the state or we didn't create the state...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15179	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15180	I think after this, wait, let Mr. Hebrang or Mr. Bajic or I don't know, someone should come and talk to this House. I don't know, maybe the prime minister, can be the president of the state, can be President of the Parliament, but 95 people who are being detained at one point in this country, and it's about the intellectual elite of the community...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15181	Okay, Mr. Cain, thank you very much. I heard your proposal and initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15182	But he'd say something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15183	We can't do this anymore. This will not be discussed, but some indications of possible criminal proceedings cannot be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. ... There's no discussion about that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We move on to the debate on the final proposal of the Sanitary Inspection Act. I ask Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15184	Thank you very much. Well, here's just one sentence. I hope there will be more of these actions and that corruption will finally end in Croatia. As far as this law is concerned, I welcome it, especially this part of the Sanitary Inspection finally defines itself as an activity of public health interest. However, I must always say that I am a little skeptical when it comes to centralizing any kind of system and I will always support the decentralised system. When it comes to the sanitary inspection of Ireland, Slovakia, Romania, Finland, Spain's European examples are that the decentralised system structure can also be effective. Centralisation itself in the sanitary inspection system does not necessarily mean a higher quality. So let's say, especially in carrying out the measures of sanitary inspection on the ground with the aim of avoiding local or family failures, known as bribery and corruption in cases of violations of regulations that can lead to health threats, and we also know that in the area of sanitary inspection, citizens believe are present both bribes and corruption. For the quality of the sanitary inspection is much more important personnel and logistics strengthening. At this point, neither human or logistics, nor equipment, sanitary inspection can do its job satisfactorily. Therefore, new employment and ensuring working conditions are crucial for the future of the sanitary inspection. And I hope, therefore, when we are already passing a new law that both he and the sublegal acts that come out of him enable indeed the staffing of the sanitary inspection in all parts of Croatia in a way that will enable it to be of public health interest and importance. I also welcome the expansion of the staff base of future sanitary inspectors, but at the same time I believe that precisely because of the diversity in their education and structure which now allows who can be a sanitary inspector to provide a system of permanent education and the kind of licensing of sanitary inspectors, which would allow all of them to have at least the minimum common knowledge for the area they are dealing with in view of the different school they have completed. I will also ask one questionnaire in that preparation structure of a completed study who can be a sanitary inspector, I don't see why all these professions would not be listed here and dentistry and veterinaryism which is related to the areas of biomedical sciences already listed in the structure of people who can hire a sanitary inspector, I think these two studies can also take into account the affairs of a sanitary inspector. And lastly, I believe that the introduction of a single central information system is very good, but it will only make sense if it enables monitoring of all the bases that have so far been in the absence of conditions that have threatened human health, so by combining the mandated penalties on the place being introduced, there is a system that will be able to monitor all this and thus prevent manipulations on the ground and facilitate the work of inspectors. In Croatian conditions where 75% of households are connected to the public water supply system, but only 43 to the sewer system, the importance of sanitary inspection becomes even more important.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15185	Thank you. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15186	Thank you very much. Honored Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Associates and Associates and Associates. Well, there's a very high-quality law ahead of us, and I really understand Mr. Caine when he's taking care of the rule of law, the state of law and discipline, and I believe that this law, like this action today, is right in this direction to establish order and discipline in the state this time with this law of order and discipline in safeguarding human health. We're to paint ourselves to win so far two battles for sanitary inspection, this is now the third. The first battle was in the Homeland War when various attempts were to be broken but it remained preserved and along with our homes of health, with our hospitals and, above all, public health services made one historic masterpiece, and this is a war of dirty war with a more powerful and more equipped aggressor passed without an epidemic and without any victim of an epidemic. Sanitary inspection has given its great pain here. Another great battle for the sanitary inspection was won several years after the war when the unification of different inspections almost sucked the sanitary inspection into a single single institution called the State Inspectorate. We have fought and managed to fight that the sanitary inspection has its autonomy, it is particularly important, because in an economic system in one system where there is economic inspection and all other sanitary inspections cannot win the battle that must be fought, which is that national health is ahead of profits. And it is the only thing that must be ahead of the profits and the sanitary inspection in Croatia and it is very successful. We haven't won the third battle yet. We tried to centralize the sanitary inspection several times unsuccessfully, this time thank God successfully. Kola Jovanovic mentioned that there are examples of countries where decentralised sanitary inspection works well and that is correct. But given our tradition, there's still a tail of Communism where the order of inspectors can be interrupted by a phone call, by a friendly call from the godfather, a cousin, a friend, unfortunately, there are many cross-roads that interrupt the actions of sanitary inspectors. That's why I think centralised is good, and that's why I think centralised in Croatia will give extraordinary results because there will be one place of responsibility, one place of control, one place of supervision, one place of education and the completion of the entire system. In this law, therefore, I mention centralization as the most important step in a positive sense, and I am deeply convinced that the results will soon be visible. Second, what is new in this law and what is a big step that is informational, towards the formation of a solid organisation of sanitary inspection, the information system has so far been very missing. The information system that would link, which would inform, which would allow the sanitary inspector to get fast information, to exchange information with higher levels, to have the current insight into the records of those who have multiple violations of individual laws, thus jeopardising the life and health of the public. In addition to this information, this centralisation will be two major steps for this important service. Thirdly, what is in this law to praise is the definition and evaluation of public health interests. This public health interest can be in front of everyone else because it depends not only on the health of the people but also on human lives. The improvement is also a relief of the conditions for filling the place of sanitary inspectors. We have so far had vacant places because there were no experts who would meet such high criteria, and these criteria were not such as to guarantee always the quality of work, they were often administrative. It is good that an extended circle of experts, doctors and schools is much wider, because the sanitary inspector must also see the site, he must observe and be, he must monitor and ionizing, non-ionizing radiation, food etc. Therefore, a wide range of experts now involved in the sanitary inspection will provide safe quality work. Step five is a broader authority to the sanitary inspector. Just to remind you of what opportunities are now to the sanitary inspector when he determines the circumstances in which people's health is threatened. He can issue a written order of urgency, a very important measure. A temporary confiscation of a case which is dangerous in the procedure, initiates an administrative procedure by emergency procedure, can file an indictment proposal, may request court entry into the room, may seal the room, drive or some source of danger to national health. If that is not possible, he can pay the fine on the spot, for the first time up to 10 thousand, and later on 5, and 8 thousand kuna, respectively. And the last and no less important step is to equip the sanitary inspection, the legislator made it very clear what to require of the sanitary inspection. A number of inspectors are requested on the number of inhabitants, so Croatia will have about 3 hundreds of sanitary inspectors, much better than now, but not enough for all that awaits us in the European Union and expanding the possibility of coming into contact with goods and food, which is imported, which is not often controlled, it or its ingredients. The information I've said is crucial, the fact that now over half of the sanitary inspectors have no computers, and two-thirds without an Internet network, without a connection to the Internet network shows in what difficult conditions these people are working on. And the results are very good under the circumstances. With all these commendations, I, as well as the board, will make only one small comment on Article 42. It is an article that says that a thousand kuna will punish the person who opens his septic pit and gives its composition to his neighbors. Either the ground floor, or the underground road. Since 60% of households in Croatia have no fixed sewerage, this means that the vast majority of our inhabitants actually use the septic pit instead of organised wastewater collection. A huge number of these people do not empty their septic pits in a legally prescribed way, but lets them leak into the ground because they did not create a bottom that is impermeable or open them up to spill over to the neighbor. Such feces come naturally to the ground, to underground flows. The underground streams come to our drinking water streams, through which they enter our water network, enter our agricultural products, which then enter our organism again, and what has come into us again. In order to prevent that from happening, I suggest, if at any rate a little more than 1,000 kuna is possible, because it's symbolic and it has to be drastic. Here's to that little remark, I support all these big steps that the ministry has made to further perfect our sanitary inspection, and the sewerage we're going to solve hope for pre-accession funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15187	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15188	Dear Mr. Vice President, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. As we can see before us is the Proposal for a Law on Sanitary Inspection with the Final Proposal for Law No. 142 for emergency procedure. Why is it necessary to pass a new law? In 1999, the Sanitary Inspection Act was passed. Through the experience of years of application of the current law of its analysis, identified shortcomings, then numerous changes in legal and sublegal regulations from the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection, and a very dynamic process in the accession of the European Union have resulted in the making of more modern and European standards of the adapted law on sanitary inspection. What is the purpose of the new law? This is to improve the meaning of an existing system, to allow for more effective handling of the sanitary inspection. And three. Higher degree of coordination through the organisation of sanitary inspection at national level. These are also the requirements set before the Republic of Croatia by the European Union. The proposed law regulates the inspection of the affairs, the structure, the mode of operation of the sanitary inspectors. The inspection tasks shall be carried out over the implementation of the laws and regulations laying down the protection of human health in the areas listed below. It means preventing the prevention of infectious diseases, the production and placing on the market of food, including genetically modified organisms, the production and placing on the market of objects of general use, production and placing on the market, and the use of dangerous chemicals and biocidal products, noise protection, protection against ionising and non-ionising radiation, and then the supervision of buildings, facilities, premises, premises, devices and equipment of persons carrying out economic activities and activities in the field of health, education, social care, hospitality, tourism, crafts and services, sports and recreation and activities in other public places. So the proposed law as Professor Hebrang said foresees means within the sanitary inspection of the Ministry, health care, social care which has not been the case so far. So the central information system is being established... Public health interest and new conditions for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sanitary inspectors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the first time, this law also provides for a term of office which is also stated on the spot and empowers the Minister of Health to determine other measures and actions which are not laid down by law in the event of special circumstances. What I do not think is mentioned today, which is that quality supervision in the Republic of Croatia needs to be taken annually in relation to the number of inhabitants of at least 22 thousand 500 samples of food, water and objects of general use and performed about 200 artificially in various areas of surveillance. Of course, all of this would be realised in the first financial year, it is necessary to provide about 84 million kuna as far as the inspector's payment is concerned, then the purchase of 100 vehicles, as on average this should be 4 vehicles per county. Then for sampling, for art, for equipment we've heard about. What is important by ensuring those funds is uniformly monitored in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as in all areas of the supervision of the sanitary inspection. We know that this law enters into force on 1 January 2009 and I will support this law because it contributes to the overall quality of life control of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15189	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I will talk about the Law on Sanitary Inspection from the point of view of food security, so "food safety" and everything that the Republic of Croatia needs to do to comply with food safety reform in the European Union. I believe that when it comes to the Sanitary Inspection Act, it is an extremely important law that fully regulates the work of a sanitary inspection and I think it brings two key innovations. First, that the sanitary inspection from the Office of State Administration and from the jurisdiction of the Central State Administration Office becomes the responsibility of the Ministry of Health where the new Board of Sanitary Control is established, which should certainly increase the effectiveness of the work of the inspection. And secondly, because this law surrounds the legislative framework. I'd say the legislative ring made up of the Food Act, the Sanitary Inspection Act, the Veterinary Act that I consider to be the key documents for the implementation of so-called. the hygiene package and the regulation of the European Union which regulates exactly the area of food safety. The Sanitary Inspection Act also includes one part of the provisions of the European Union legislation but it also has our specificities in place, which is not our specificity. I think that in the work of our sanitary inspection there are extremely good experiences and that these experiences should be preserved and that they are incorporated into this law. What must have prompted and accelerated the change in this structure that we are talking about is that the state administration at the Ministry of Health is safe and negotiations on food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary supervision. Also in the CARDS 2002 and later in the Food Safety Strategy, it is stated that the field work is performed by 20 county inspection services and the inspection service of the city of Zagreb. With other county branches, it's a total of 81 field operating units. Likewise, during the food security negotiations, the view is somewhat taken that such an existing system and the fact that it is outside the health ministry is not sustainable in the long term because one of the basic principles of the food safety strategy is at stake, which is the vertical chain of command. So vertical responsibility and coordination. It is therefore necessary that official food controls are coordinated from one place and that inspection surveillance data are collected in one place precisely so that in the case of these crisis situations they can react quickly, they can react in a coordinated manner and that data can be communicated and exchanged with the European Commission as well as with other European Union countries at any time. Because when it comes to epidemics, diseases and food safety problems in their nature, things can't be just a local issue, they can't be just a national issue. The outbreaks of infectious diseases and food safety generally do not know the administrative limits. Let's just remember the stories of bird flu, cow madness and so forth. Sanitary inspection with veterinary and fitness sanitary inspection is part of a monitoring mechanism that is primarily in the function of the health of the nation. The health of the nation is a very important economic category. It affects productivity. It affects profitability, the competitiveness of one economy, one national economy, and it is therefore extremely important that the area of sanitary inspection is regulated according to the highest standards of the European Union and that it is arranged exactly as it is in other competitive economies. Where the roots in food security reform are in the European Union, just what we talked about today. These are different zoonosis epidemics, different outbreaks of infectious diseases, dioxin problems, about the production of olive oil. So all the things that have caused the last century have caused great hemorrhaging and great material damage. The cow's madness, the bird's flu and so on. But also other changes have affected that. Let us take only eating habits, consumer lifestyles, changes in eating habits, consumer awareness of food health, their education, their legitimate demands to have the right to food information, responsible, serious declaration. Then there are certain requirements for food distribution at a greater distance. It means the supply of the whole world from one manufacturer to another, but also the out-of-season supply throughout the year. All of this has affected different technological methods as well. On different conservation processes but also on increased food safety risks to increased risks of different contaminations, from physical, biological, microbiological, etc. Also, we are increasingly experiencing collective nutrition from homes, kindergartens, restaurants, schools, etc. where there's actually an ever-increasing group of people at risk. All of this resulted at European Union level in 2000, first of all, in the White Paper on Food Safety and then in a radical turn on food safety policy in 2004 with so-called a series of hygiene package regulations where one key thing is happening about food safety control, which is compared to the old approach where we mainly had an analysis of finished products and product analysis that had already been in some way in retail and wholesale sales. So exposed to shelves, etc. And there was the essence of the work of inspection and inspection services. But in a new approach that speaks of food control and food safety from field to table, so the whole system, the entire food chain is controlled, in the control system. So, from primary production through processing, through trade distribution, means finally to the consumer himself. Therefore, this new concept of food safety in the European Union also imposes on the sanitary inspection and other inspections that I have mentioned, therefore, both agricultural and phytosanitary and veterinary tasks. That's why it's important to pass this law. It is therefore important that the complete sanitary inspection goes into the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and that all data from this surveillance can be centralised and easily distributed to the competent food safety authority in this case, the Ministry of Agriculture. Therefore, if we are looking from the point of view of food safety, then the sanitary inspection is one of the most important features of the system, and therefore we should also welcome this very clear and decided, meaning this very clear and decidated projection of how much funding it takes to equip the sanitary inspection, so that the sanitary inspection is both human and spatial and in some way materially qualified to do the job. So, out of the 50 million kunas foreseen for wages, so several dozen million kunas that should be invested in space equipment, in means of transport and ensuring this basic logistics of the computer by networking the creation of a network of data, centralisation of data collection, etc. So it's certainly to support this very clear projection, and I think this law and everything we've planned to do with a sanitary inspection will contribute to a more quality surveillance system. But also what we all stand for and what our fundamental goal is to the health of the nation as conjecture and economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15191	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15192	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. No doubt it is an extremely important law that should certainly be supported, but at least with some aspects I would have rated this law with better anything than nothing. Namely, I refer to a segment of ionising and non-ionizing radiation that has so far been covered by one person at the Ministry of Science. So, the sanitary inspector for radiation protection will now at least be more people per county. However, I would point out here that non-ionizing radiation is some kind of ill child in the whole structure that is very reluctant to deal with both the competent national administrative authorities and the sanitary inspection. Non-ionizing radiation refers to any type of electromagnetic radiation that does not have enough energy per photon or to what physicists or quantum mechanics say by light-quant to cause ionisation of atoms or molecules. And instead of using their passing to produce the ions, i.e. free radicals or radiotoxins that then cause biological effects of non-ionising radiation only lead to the excitation of atoms or molecules, but that is also enough for certain biological effects. Therefore, non-ionizing radiation can produce erythemas, various types of cancer, such as skin cancer, various burns, photo-keratitis, fever, impaired nervous tissue response, dizziness, nausea, etc. And non-ionizing radiation includes an entire spectrum of ultraviolet radiation, to the radiation produced by the power lines. So, low frequencies. We are also witnessing an increased number of opening solariums in Zagreb where people come uncritically to get anything but to light up in the solarium to get a nice copper complexion without going to sunbathing at least on Jarun, if not on the Adriatic Sea and getting very high doses of ultraviolet radiation that is quite harmful to health. A favourable fact is that it is precisely the course of accreditation of some laboratories that examine the correctness of these appliances in solar plants, and there is therefore a positive link between inspection bodies and test laboratories highly specialised, highly professional as levers serving administrative organisations for now the State Department for radiation protection and the Ministry of Health. However, such high-level analyses and studies can only be conducted by highly specialised professionals. I therefore particularly welcome Article 15 that the affairs of the sanitary inspector and the state health inspector may be carried out by persons who have completed university degree studies, which lists food engineering, bioprocessing, chemical engineering, technology, etc., engineering physics or engineering, but I ask the question where are the electric engineers. In fact, the non-ionizing meaning of the logic of things is done by electrical technicians because they have adequate knowledge, they have adequate equipment and sufficient skills to deal with the topic in question. Therefore, I have personally submitted an amendment to include electrical technicians in this list of persons who may be sanitary inspectors. I think it's a really good contribution because it eventually costs every competent body what kind of personnel they need, but it's a question of why you limit yourself here by saying this only mentioning certain professions and not this extremely important category of people. So I hope this amendment of mine will be accepted. In fact, this is extremely important and good that sanitary inspectors for different areas can be experts from different areas because we are too small a country to easily destroy our personnel and therefore professionals from Croatian universities and universities should ultimately make their contribution to the general state of security and improve health, therefore, work in the economy, not just in research and science. Because science without application is simply barren. Ultraviolet radiation, i.e. non-ionizing radiation, comprises from sunlight and ultraviolet radiation to infrared light, cell radiation, radar, microwaves, wireless phones, remote control for televisions, radios and lines, power lines. So we're really consumed by radiation at every moment of our existence and finally now, while we're exposed to the radiation of computers, these lights, antennas, radios, etc. Non-ionizing radiation should also pay greater attention to the fact that, not only for non-ionising radiation, but also for the rest of the nights to find a larger link with laboratories, institutes that simply have to serve inspectors as those professional levers, because many analysis inspectors simply cannot work alone, they can take samples and lead them to laboratories, which then analyze. And I therefore hope that this interaction will be greater, as I hope that the competent administrative authorities will, because I am talking about this segment of ionising and non-ionising radiation, will further increase the interaction between the State Department for radiation protection when there is no inspection within it, as is the case in many other European countries in accordance with their legislation. I will support this law with satisfaction, but I say, I would be more pleased that this segment of inspection is in line with the solutions in most European Union countries, therefore, that the inspection is located within a service dealing with radiation protection. But here's better than nothing, like I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15193	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honourable government representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is indeed worth the attention of the Sanitary Inspectorate Act in view of the delirquence and the authority and jurisdiction of the inspection. But not to be too long. This law aims to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia from the bottom to the top. So no matter where anyone is, the aim is to safeguard the health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the government has decided to centralise the inspection. Whether it is a sign of government's mistrust with local self-government units or whether the government has decided to control the inspection from the state level, neither is well. The inspection as a management that has special powers must be fully independent of politics and government when acting and when acting. The solutions offered by this law don't ensure that, here's why. Let the motionary tell me where the law says who appoints the director of the administration, or the chief inspector, and who he is responsible for. The inspection as a administrative organisation is located at the Ministry of Health. And by logic, things must be answered by the Minister when he's within the Ministry. But he can't not answer to the government. And the solution provided for by the State Inspectorate has not been implemented here. So we have different solutions for different inspections. What are the reasons for that? There's no explanation. When it comes to the director's responsibility, therefore, of the head of the inspection, I suggest that he be appointed by the Government to resolve it in material, to appoint him government and to be responsible to the government for the scale of work and the legality of conduct. But when it comes to the legality of conduct, the law provides for two values of inspectors and two values of the inspector's own solution. Namely, when one inspector makes a decision on a violation or punishment, the law does not provide for a right to appeal. Why? And the Constitution predicts that any such thing provides for the possibility of an appeal, so more the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia is not a court full of jurisdiction and it does not decide on the essence of the offence but only on the regularity of the proceedings. And the European Union has continued to warn us that infringements have such weight that they must be decided by the court at least in the appeal procedure. It tolerates us for the time being to work on special bodies in the administrative procedure to decide on the appeal, but once we enter the European Union, there will be a requirement for an independent court to rule on violations, a misdemeanor court. This law didn't settle it. In fact, the law stipulates that the senior state health inspector and state inspector when they reach a solution, their solution becomes finally in the administrative procedure, and can only be appealed to the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in the administrative dispute. And the Administrative Court doesn't solve the scale of things. While a senior health inspector and a health inspector make a decision, they can be made to a complaint, but imagine who, your superior inspector, is who. Thank God he's so independent. Who's he independent of? Not from the minister, not from the government, not from this lower one. Then what do they decide? I think that this is a major downturn in the decisions offered by this law, and this should be led before the adoption of this law by the Government and corrected by the text of the law, i.e. to find a solution in Article 32, i.e. to provide for the complaints of the senior state health inspector and state inspector also to be decided by a body appointed by the Government. It could be a commission. As we predicted for the State Inspectorate, nothing less. Sanitary inspection has even greater powers and greater consequences for citizens, failures or poor assessment of this inspection than other inspections. It's really about living foods to enjoy people. That's why I think we need to work it out. I am concerned by the fact that the State Inspectorate Act is on the agenda and that some inspections have been taken from that inspectorate and placed in a special position and placed with the minister. It makes sense because the minister will manage the inspection more easily. But the purpose of the inspection is not that it is easier to be managed by the minister, but rather to act independently, independently in the interests of the citizens, in the general interest, to do their job. And we're, like, understandable to the inspection financially, that's understandable. But for the sanitary to be singled out when it has to go together, I know it from experience, with the Labour Inspectorate any one who follows the rights of the worker or who follows the technique and protection of workers on a regular basis goes together sanitary and that inspection on the ground. And other inspections, but that's the logic of the job, but we've isolated this inspection. The question is whether this is about good faith and good intentions or whether it is about being able to influence the inspection in this way because the lobby is too strong in food, importing food and agriculture so as not to suspect such a possibility. Therefore, there is much to change here in the text of the law in order to be correct, in the interests of the citizens, in the interest of the government and of our parliamentary representatives who are responsible for the general care and interests of the citizens, so I ask that the Government find courage and this reading turn into a first reading so that in the second reading they can get the text of a law that will be in line with the solutions offered for other inspections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15195	Thank you. Final review. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Drazen Jurkovic. Here you go. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Where was she? Okay. Replica, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to replicate some allegations that actually give the impression of inconsistency. So when we talk about decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia, then we hold it as some kind of democratic standard and we all strive to do so. But there's something else here. This is about strategic national interest. It's, if we're talking about food, it's consumer health. And in the European Union, it is currently an urgency that anything relating to the safety of consumers so that this part is under the state. As far as food quality is concerned, there is allowed therefore to do so by private companies, meaning from some private laboratories etc. Therefore, in view of all this experience on food safety, on consumer health protection, etc., it is essential that food safety inspection services be in the jurisdiction of the State. We had a situation with the veterinary inspection, and there we received both the Benchmark and the European Commission’s observations because the authorised veterinary inspectors were employees of private companies, and they invoiced the accounts to another private company they controlled and this was considered a conflict of interest and this practice had to be interrupted. So, at that time, we had maximum decentralisation and even the market for veterinary services, and therefore, according to the European Commission, new food safety standards in the European Union are no longer permitted. And that conflict of interest is corrected. So, by the Veterinary Act, any authorised veterinary inspector who controls food safety must be on the state salary, not paying any state-owned companies. Therefore, when it comes to decentralisation and food safety, then some other systems are at stake because it is the health of the nation, because it is about consumer protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15197	Replication response, Mr. Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15198	Dear colleague, that's where we differ. I think that the health of citizens is at stake, not the health of the nation, and when it comes to the organisational form, then I don't think he's going to solve the essence, and I've expressed concern that this organization is a matter of mistrust with local self-government. And thirdly, I know from experience that all inspections, and especially the sanitary inspection, are very often responding to the call of citizens. They're consumables, they first come into contact with food, they most often react before the inspector. It's a practice it's always been and it's today. So the logic of things here is that the inspector is as close to the citizen as possible and away from the authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15199	Thank you. No replica on the replica? State Secretary Drazen Jurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15200	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, thank you for your honor. Namely, I am pleased here by one fact today that, here is for these two important laws that have been so long in the focus of this High House and it is certainly a guarantee that care for people's health and prevention of priorities and people sitting in the Croatian Assembly. Actually, let me ask you a question, that's enough. I'm going to try to answer some of which I really think, of course they're all important, but let me try to answer one that I think is really relevant. Well, here, I'd like to start by answering the last questions of Agent Lek. In fact, such a solution to the law is neither a question nor a mistrust of the government in the system of local administration, but simply a harmonisation with existing legal solutions, as we have said in the context of the proposal and, above all, with the Food Act. The second question was about the director of the administration, so the chief health inspector. It is regulated by law that the Director of the Board of Sanitary Inspectors is also the Chief Sanitary Inspector, and the way in which the Director of the Administration is elected is regulated by the Law on Civil Service Officers and Landowners, i.e. the Director of Administration is elected by public tender. So it's regulated and it's only by other law. I would also remind you that all the bodies of the state administration are operating according to the ZUP, the National Journal 53/91, so all the executive solutions, conclusions and complaints are under the General Administration Act. Also, as regards the comments on the control of imports of beef and other meat and meat processing, I would mention here that it is not the subject of this law and that it is not in the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection, but veterinary inspection. Also, with regard to the noise remarks. So the noise and the noise issue are regulated by the Noise Protection Act, so the question is regulated by one other law more precisely than the Sanitary Inspection Act. As for the response to the funds we are, I'm first of all glad that this tall home has concluded that there is a need to further equip the sanitary inspection. As for the observations that car funds are too large, I would just add that I think that every sanitary inspector should have a car to be efficient because they simply shouldn't go as "pain and Lolek" together, but I think it's essential that they be equipped, mobile and out on the ground each in one car, and that means that we now have 5 sanitary inspectors, on 5 sanitary inspectors, on one car and on the question is whether these funds will be enough, and not that they'll be too high. As far as the information system is concerned, we think it's the basis for the functioning of the sanitary inspection. I really can't tell you right now if 500 thousand euros is a lot or a little, but to tie up, so if we have 15 grand, from one sanitary inspector to 15 thousand residents, we're going to need about 300 sanitary inspectors. Indeed, these funds do not seem too great to me, but it is a matter of assessment. It seems to me that the issue of continued education and education of sanitary inspectors, the education of sanitary inspectors and the obligation of education has been resolved in Article 17(1) and (2). Also, of the other questions I would still refer to, so why does the establishment of a sanitary inspection, such a structure of a sanitary inspection, guarantee better coordination? Well, just because we've had a 2 level sanitary inspection so far. 170 sanitary inspectors were in the offices of the state administration, and 50 sanitary inspectors were in the city of Zagreb, so they were employees of local administrations and self-government. With this solution, everyone becomes employees of the Ministry of Health, so by nature it is quite certain to expect coordination and degree of coordination to be far better than it has ever been. Also, as far as personnel are concerned, I think the problem of the personnel that exist in the sanitary inspection is well noticed. I would just add that we are at the Ministry of Health to take over 170 sanitary inspectors and 50 inspectors from the city of Zagreb, so a total of around 220 sanitary inspectors. According to the provisions of this law, it will take 300, and that was one of the key reasons why we also expanded this range of possible professions to do the work of sanitary inspectors. I'd like to conclude with this. It seems to me that the law mostly received the support of the present representatives. Also, I think we can accept amendment of Assembly Committee on Legislatives No. 142/1 until Mr. Franic's amendment would be accepted for the reason...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15201	We can't talk about the amendments now, it'll be about the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15202	Okay. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15203	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15204	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. One very short intervention. It is not true that human beings will be able to be perfected in accordance with Article 17 because this is not about amending and supplementing the law when we have some previously provided means. It's a new law, and when you've made a list of the funds that need to be provided for the realisation of that law, you haven't foreseen a single lip, let alone the kuna to perfect the personnel. Therefore, it is not possible or true that it will be possible to comply with this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15205	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15206	4. Proposal for a law on sanitary inspection is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 142. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by Legislative Committee and MP Zdenko Franic. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. First, the Legislative Committee, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15207	Thank you, Mr. President, we fully accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee. We also accept the amendment of Agent Franić because we do not think that it has a significant impact on the content of Article 15 and Article 15 we have foreseen a sufficient range of professions covering the activities of the sanitary inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15208	This was State Secretary Mr. Drazen Jurkovic. Both amendments have been accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We're voting on the Proposal for a Sanitary Inspection Act. Let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? I find that most votes; 91 votes for and 2 abstentions are accepted Proposal for this Sanitary Inspection Act together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15209	We're moving to agenda five. 5. Final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on police cooperation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 141 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda of the 5th session, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary, Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15210	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, here is a proposal for a bill to confirm another agreement that the government has concluded with the interior ministries of other states. In this case, it is an agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on police cooperation. In fact, the Croatian government has signed a series of police co-operation agreements in recent years that have proved to be an extraordinary instrument in establishing close cooperation between the police of the Republic of Croatia and the police of other countries to which they have certainly contributed much better mutual and direct and bilateral co-operation. This also enables cooperation between the police of the Republic of Croatia and the police of other countries not only through Interpol but also direct cooperation that has produced truly extraordinary results with countries in the environment and especially in the fight against organised crime. This Agreement, which is proposed by this Act, confirms the issues of professional cooperation through general and specialised training, information exchange and professional experience, professional consultation and exchange of specialized documentation, and, where necessary, mutual exchange of employees and experts. Otherwise, the Ministry of Interior with experts from the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia also has excellent cooperation in the implementation of several twinning projects that will certainly contribute to increasing the expertise and training of the Croatian Ministry of Interior. This Agreement constitutes a good starting framework for further strengthening the cooperation of competent authorities between the two countries in the field of police cooperation and does not require additional funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The basis for the adoption of this emergency law is in Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and we believe that here it is really necessary to bring it as soon as possible to get another additional instrument for the Croatian Ministry of Interior in the fight against organised and international crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15211	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15212	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on police cooperation is the result of a joint desire to further promote and deepen police cooperation and to fight actively against all types of crime and illegal migration. Accordingly, the aim of law-making is to work with each other on the issue of police cooperation and to create assumptions for a co-ordinated common approach in the fight against all forms of crime while strengthening bilateral relations. The agreement is a good framework for further cooperation in the field of police jurisdiction, and in particular in the fight against organised crime, in the fight against illicit trafficking in drugs, in the fight against trafficking in human beings, and in particular in children, in the fight against money laundering against terrorism, against illicit trafficking in arms of all forms. Furthermore, in the fight against counterfeiting, smuggling, illegal migration and counterfeiting of travel documents. Co-operation is also important for the safety of air traffic, criminal skills and public order maintenance, education and finally in the fight against trade in stolen vehicles. It is important to note that all the activities provided for in this Agreement shall be carried out by each Party in accordance with its internal legislation. Articles 3, 4 and 5 of this Agreement specify the procedures and methods of cooperation for each form of international crime from mutual reporting, exchange of the results of investigations until exchange of experts. Professional cooperation that could be implemented in those areas of the agreement will be previously agreed between the parties in writing, so diplomatically. Cooperation will be implemented in accordance with the annual programme within the limits of the financial opportunities of the signatories of the agreement. The implementation of this Agreement shall be responsible for the interior ministers of the two countries, and they shall be designated by the bodies for the implementation of different areas of cooperation. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports all police activities in the fight against all forms of crime. We also support the confirmation of the Agreement on Police Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France as a step forward in the fight against international crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15213	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15214	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will also support the text of the proposed law as well as the agreement itself, as it is in line with the security policy developed within the Ministry of Interior which supports the objectives of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia to achieve security cooperation and cooperation with neighbouring countries, countries in the region and beyond. The adoption of this law seeks to clearly formulate the state's determination to improve the overall area of security from all forms of crime and illegal migration. The fact is that activities in the police district have become an important factor in improving joint assistance among countries and that future competent institutions will more than this has been the case so far will significantly participate in the implementation of these tasks. Let's just remember the fact that crime has no limits, and that criminals are often in the establishment of interstate relations in front of the police. The relevant agreement was written with an emphasis on professional and operational cooperation without imposing interest and will by some of the signatories states, and we consider it a formal legal framework for cooperation between France and Croatia on the basis of which concrete plans and programmes of professional and operational cooperation will develop and coordinate interests and everything else related to this Agreement. Following this, we hope that the adoption of this law will facilitate the work of our competent institutions with partners from the states of the signatories of the agreement. On this occasion, we want to point out as it is and this agreement itself contains areas, specific areas of cooperation from which we single out and emphasise the fight against organised crime, the fight against illicit trafficking in drugs, the fight against trafficking in human beings, especially children and illicit organ trafficking, the fight against economic and financial crime, the fight against terrorism, the fight against illicit trafficking in classical, and nuclear, chemical biological weapons, the fight against counterfeiting of documents and other documents, the fight against smuggling of cultural goods and stolen art items. The safety of air, maritime and land transport will also be clearly increased and cooperation in criminal skills, i.e. public order and staff management and what is particularly important in education will be enhanced. This Act of Confirmation of the Cooperation Agreement certainly contributes to security policy, as well as to the overall state of security in the Republic of Croatia. And we believe that such an agreement will also initiate new agreements with other countries which we are confident to contribute and open professional and operational cooperation among the signatories countries and therefore once again we point out that the HSS Club will support the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15215	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15216	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I should like to say that the SDP Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, namely ratification of a police cooperation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France. I will be, I will try to be practical for the first brief presentation and the debate to welcome efforts, which means that the circle of those countries with which we achieve bilateral agreements at police level other than international conventions. I am saying this for reasons why, in practical application, faced with the situation that very often international legal aid that even the situations in which the best intentions of both sides are to solve a particular problem precisely for those reasons why it is impossible not to initiate a criminal procedure, and in fact you are in a situation where you can't even run it for reasons that you don't have data, administrative agreements like this provide an opportunity to get to the level of operational information needed by the police in the preparation of a possible criminal case against a particular person. As early as 2003, the French liaison officer is in the police department, which proved to be a very good solution, i.e. by improving the cooperation between the police, because, apart from the countries in the region and the circle, we must be particularly interested in working with the countries of the European Union, without speaking about it at a practical moment in the coming year and at this moment and in fact the role of France in Croatia's accession and in all the fulfilment of the standards necessary for Croatia's entry into the European Union. I would only notice something actually to be very often commended, and the promoter pointed out this today, and that is that there is no need for additional funds to achieve this agreement, as we usually try to make it as little as possible and it is in some way positive when smaller money is actually needed to achieve it, I still think that the funds in the budget allocated to international co-operation within the Ministry of the Interior are not enough to cover all forms of police cooperation and in this field should be particularly worked out. And I think it would be much better actually, and I'm sure it would be a great benefit if, in practical application of these agreements, there was enough resources to really have an exchange of experts, that we really have joint operational teams to achieve joint projects to combat organised crime and other forms of most serious crime. In the assessment and need itself, I will not particularly stress the importance of strengthening any type of cooperation, especially with countries with exceptional experience. I must stress that the story with our specific cases means the cooperation that has taken place with both Austria and also, and now with neighbouring countries, we can see the results regularly around joint operations, and in that part it is welcome to welcome and in some way speed up the achievement of all agreements that should be made at bilateral level with countries in the region. Just one more little detail of the bill that I would like to highlight, which I think somehow goes into function as detailed as possible, as stated in Article 4 of this proposal. There is a very precise statement about drug crime prevention while for other points that are taxed in areas where there is no cooperation, I think it would be much better otherwise when such agreements work that we have more precise data for all other areas which I think would help both us and them. Also, if I may point out point 2 of that same article, just so we know what we are adopting in these situations because these international agreements still have great power and this means that we will be able to make operational information available on the movement of international illicit drug trafficking, psycho substances and money laundering resulting from this. I think it only matters this one illustration or icon to understand what it means, and that means that our police will give this situation at the request of the party and that is not contrary to our legal solutions and operational information. And I remind you of this recent case that's happening around Captain Laptal that in fact the situation of Laptalo, Dupala and so on if she finds herself in, if we get such a situation that we should provide that information to the outside. That's what we'll do under this agreement. So they wouldn't just look lightly at this one, the variant of making such agreements because it also implies giving information that doesn't have its own weight in the sense that court proceedings are over or that we're only giving certain criminal records that are ultimately, after the end of criminal proceedings or judicial proceedings. Finally, just to do it again, and that is, I think that practical co-operation and what is very important is the annual programme, or what the two sides agree on, and of course it will refer primarily to the police, I think that it must be supported by the Ministry not only in the appropriate visits of the Ministry delegation to the Ministry in France or vice versa, but that these are really practical things and therefore I repeat again if we want serious cooperation we will have to invest more funds in this. I thank you again and repeat that the SDP Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15217	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15218	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, the HNS Club will support this agreement, but I would continue where my colleague Ostojić left off. We would like to stress that these agreements really do not need to be seen lightly and should be looked at by the practical side. Now with most of these agreements when a man after a year, two, three looks at what we've actually achieved, unfortunately, we can often just figure out that it's a stereotype and courtoasia and even if the two ministers went out together for a press conference after visiting would probably be the same thing as not good, it's not good. We of French police colleagues can learn a lot without further ado. It's one of the best police in Europe, and I'm glad we're making a bilateral agreement with them right now. But what bothers me personally is that almost all the areas of cooperation that we mention here can be dealt with by French colleagues and through Interpol documents because they and we are members of the same organization. Done all the areas being and there... It's practically overwritten. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But colleagues and colleagues who are not prescribed and that we should force these agreements and we almost never find such agreements is something we would like to talk about today. Look at Croatia today looking for approximately 1250 war crimes suspects in Croatia. 1250. 500 of them and something's on all kinds of police escorts. Although when you open the Interpol site, you will be suspected of war crimes in Rwanda but not in Croatia. So we haven't been able to force ourselves in there to get them in, you under the quotes we're looking for to be in a priority place. Wouldn't it make sense for this list here with stolen vehicles, with the maintenance of public order, with the security of traffic, with the fight against the smuggling of stolen art, with the fight against illicit trafficking in chemical compounds, is our request for investigation and arrest of war crimes suspects. Because The Hague is phase one. Just 161 names. He, The Hague, closes in a year, a year and a half. After that, national courts are expected to resolve the issue of persecution and punishment of these individuals. But you colleagues and colleagues know well that probably several hundred war criminals have left the former Yugoslavia and live around the world today, mostly in the countries of the European Union, and what is happening to them? Nothing. Yesterday I listened to the Prime Minister when he said war crimes don't get old. It's a big lie. It's a big lie. Because the Convention on War Crimes Depreciation has been signed by only 25% of the United Nations member states of which these countries or countries cover about 5 to 10% of the population of this planet. So which countries I think you're clear on. The great countries in which we are the role model, in which we will never sign this convention, and with them all World War II war crimes, from colonial wars, have long since become obsolete. And that's why those who went there know well if they get citizenship there they're on safe ground forever. Sad or true. And even such bilateral agreements do not want to try to encourage their persecution, arrest and extradition to Croatia. That's why I think we must, and please, really ask the Secretary of State to try to present in any such agreement the very important request of Croatia that we must put before their police. We have to. And we can only call ourselves possibly to the Convention on... The Council of Europe signed by almost all members of the Council of Europe so that at least within that collective of some 47 countries we can try to make it clear that these people finally end up in court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, therefore, our intervention was only in this direction aimed at trying to in future be practical so that certain priorities are really agreed on in the order that interests us all. I hope you're just agreeing with me that the priorities, the ones that I've just talked about, are far ahead of those who are listed here and that in future here we try to help ourselves in this area as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15219	Thank you. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15220	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's how much yesterday we discussed here on the Proposal for a Law on Cooperation with Eurojust, with one European association in connection, so one legal association, and we all agreed that it was a good thing, and we all mostly supported the vast majority of such cooperation. Just one day after that, so today we have the final draft law on urgent procedure with the Republic of France on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on police cooperation. Therefore, only the bilateral agreement between the two republics and the urgent procedure, and it does not bear the E code even though France is a member of the European Union. Perhaps someone has asked himself why, when there is an adequate or appropriate agenda for Europol yesterday, and above that, Interpol when such an agreement may be signed with all Europol members. All of these points that are numbered here against not counting them because they've been counted for the fourth, fifth time by each of the previous speakers. So, fighting organised crime, fighting illegal, not allowed. This is not Croatia's unauthorized, but illicit drug trafficking, etc. Until as Mr. Doric said to war crimes and... War criminals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, isn't it the same interest for us and Germany to sign a contract like this with Italy, with any Western European country, and I'd say it's still wider with America? This co-operation between the two police would actually be perhaps smaller or too small in comparison to our police needs. As he said outside the context, Mr. Cain, let's see what's going on here. So we see what happens very recently on the streets of Zagreb. We see the beatings, we see the murders unsolved. What kind of police are we supposed to be working with to get our police to handle this? These are our inner things. But our inner affairs are also these grants and diagnosiss and maestros and here are now and indices etc. We will not be helped by French police or liaison agents in the police of the Republic of Croatia, the MUP of the Republic of Croatia, and as one of my Slavonac said, let it be called redistribution, not police. So I don't understand why it's an emergency procedure and why it's only a bilateral agreement with the police of the Republic or the French Republic or the Republic of France. It is certainly harsh, harsh physical violence not only in Zagreb daily, but in all our places in the Republic of Croatia. Then an unexplainable traffic disaster with severe outcomes with a large number of deaths of young people especially, with a large number of disabled persons as a consequence of one like this I would say the cataclysms of traffic, inexplicable despite good roads and increasingly better cars, or it is precisely in correlation with that. This is what our police should be much more interested in, and here yesterday we voted yesterday, not to vote, but also to discuss legal cooperation, so in the legal sector with Eurojust. Which is why I am not Europol, but I guess we will now conclude that I do not know how many agreements 29 members of the European Union, America, maybe Russia, as criminals and crime do not have borders, do not have national colors. So we have our citizens in all parts of the world. Some say that each country has its own mafia, and for Croatia there is one specific statement that is completely reversed from this sentence that I have said so that I support any agreement that will bring good into that sense, in terms of these points that are listed or counted in Article 1 and here with the Republic of France. But here's exactly what I'm saying is not clear to me, or I'm going to ask whether we're going to sign an agreement with each country in particular, or if we have Europol with which we can sign it, and they're all members of Europol or Europol, or beyond Interpol. So, in principle, one question, and I'm personally certainly for an agreement that can do well in researching all these actions that are linked to fighting organised crime, illegal migration, traffic safety, anti-terrorism, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15221	Thank you. Just for a little clarification. Interpol and other organisations are organisations that negotiate between the police professional ways of implementing certain things, and bilateral agreements allow them to do so through their legislation. Thank you very much. And an individual debate by distinguished representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15222	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on police cooperation signed in October 2007 with the aim of improving police co-operation, as well as the advance fight against all types of crime and illegal migration. The passing of this law creates legal assumptions that police co-operation issues, a common approach in the fight against crime, and strengthen bilateral relations between the two states are properly regulated. This proposal for a law on police cooperation between the two countries addresses issues of professional cooperation through general and specialised training, exchange of information and professional experience, and different consultations, exchange of documentation, but also in the case of the need for mutual exchange of experts. This Agreement is a good basis for further strengthening the competent authorities of the two countries in the area. The procedure for confirming the international contract was regulated by the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts adopted in April '96. A year. Article 18 of this Act provides that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia shall confirm international agreements requiring the adoption or amendment of the law. Therefore, the confirmation is an appropriate procedure and a decision by the Parliament on the consent of the Republic of Croatia to be bound by an international agreement on the basis of which it gives its consent at international level. Article 1 provides that the parties cooperate professionally and operationally in the field of police cooperation and provide mutual assistance, all of which are listed from the fight against organised crime, drug trafficking, the fight against trafficking in human beings, economic and financial offences, the fight against terrorism, etc. The Parties may, in agreement, extend the area of cooperation within the framework of the Agreement. Article 2 provides that all activities provided for in this Agreement relating to police cooperation shall be carried out by each party in accordance with its internal legislation. In addition, when a request for technical and operational cooperation is received under this Agreement, any party may reject it if it considers that it may endanger its sovereignty, security, public order and the like. In addition, co-operation is regulated in the prevention and detection of criminal offences involving different forms of international crime. Article 4 regulates how to prevent cultivation and drug trafficking, and is also regulated in Article 5 of the anti-terrorism frameworks, knowledge and data shall be exchanged. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So in the event of the termination of this agreement, all personal data should be destroyed. The parties also guarantee the public in dealing with the knowledge and information that the other party has designated as such. If we bear in mind that this is a clear and summarised proposal because the law consists of only 12 articles and that these agreements are increasingly signed by one another in the world, I believe that by adopting this law, we too will be more successful in the fight against all types of crime and illegal migration. That's why I'm gonna support it. I'm calling for this agreement to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15223	Thank you. It's final. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15224	Thank you very much. Just encouraged by discussions by individual parliamentary representatives, a few clarifications. It was a question of why we were with France and did we make deals with other countries, or do we intend to conclude? Yeah. So far, Croatia has concluded such or similar agreements with 26 countries, and negotiations are being conducted from 3 countries and the agreement will be concluded very quickly with 2. What Mr. Doric asked, why isn't this agreement and a regulated issue of cooperation in the field of war crimes? It is important to know that these agreements are voluntary and that countries sign agreements with the content they agree on. So, there is no automation in signing the agreement, but all these agreements are subject to several months, somewhere even years of negotiations, talks, reconciliations, and we need to make sure that every other partner country that signs an agreement with the Republic of Croatia has its own internal legal order and these agreements must also be brought into line with the legal order of those countries. So coming into a phase when agreements agree and preparations for signing are not short, it's not easy, it's not easy, and every agreement like this requires a really several months, so I'd say a multi-annual agreement between negotiations and talks to bring these agreements into line with legal denials, the legislation of both countries that sign these or similar agreements. However, it is important in all of this to point out that Croatia is certainly making progress and that the Croatian MUP has more and more trust, especially from the democratic member states of the European Union and the wider international communities. It is important to point out that last year, the OSCE monitoring over the Croatian MUP after years of monitoring, which is certainly one of the best confirmations that the MUP is on the right track and that it has reached high democratic standards by which it can be measured with the police of other European countries and should also know that what Mr Ostojic said is that such an agreement regulates and exchange of operational data whose application, use and exchange is very sensitive. An agreement with Europol is also being negotiated, however, in order to sign an agreement with Europol should also achieve very high democratic standards, professional and professional that data exchanged with Europol should not go wrong. So you really get into a situation to sign an agreement with a single state government like France, with their data-sharing MUP is really a big success. I would say evidence of the high trust of the state concerned that the data exchanged with the Croatian MUP and all those actions will indeed remain in the hands of professionals and experts who will not abuse that data, so here I say, this is the 26th agreement and it is certainly the number of respectable evidence that Croatian police are increasingly professional, increasingly professional and certainly will try to sign such agreements with other countries because the practice has shown that, apart from cooperation through Interpol, these agreements are the best tools in the hands of police, in this case the police of the Republic of Croatia in the fight against organised crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15225	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15226	Fifthly, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on Police Cooperation. It was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 141. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please engage and please vote. The result? I find that most of the votes; 95 votes for and 1 abstentions are accepted Proposal for a Law on an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on Police Cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15227	We're moving on to point six. A report on the work of the Advocate General for 2007 Proposer: Advocate General of the Police has submitted a report on the basis of Article 8. The Law on the Attorney General. The government delivered an opinion. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Jurica Malcic, attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15228	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is the fourth time I have submitted a report to the Croatian Parliament, but it is the first time I have submitted it to this assembly. So allow me a few short words about the very institution of the occupier, which is just one of the variants in the world of the well-known and highly-expanded ombudsman institution. The first parliamentary Ombudsman was established 200 years ago although similar institutions became of course in the old age and throughout that period, and the first modern ombudsman is considered a Danish Ombudsman founded in 1955, after which the institution spread throughout the world and today is almost all over Europe. One German has a parliamentary committee for that purpose, and Italy does not have a national ombudsman but has a regional ombudsman and a large number. Since 1993, the institution of the European Ombudsman has been acting to protect citizens from European bodies and services. The two reasons are fundamental, which led to such enlargement and strengthening of the ombudsman institutions, which is a growing role and, above all, predominance as the world process of administration and executive authority over parliament, is a general phenomenon and a need in this regard to strengthening parliamentary control mechanisms. Another reason is the growing role of human rights, thus strengthening awareness of these rights, and then mechanisms especially international for their promotion and protection. What to say is that there is no unique model and the ombudsmans differ in different countries, depending on the time of establishment, but also the priorities in certain countries. After 1955, a number of institutions were established according to the Danish model, limiting more or less of the Simeon area to protect citizens towards state and local administrations and bodies with public authority. The second part was established with powers both to the administration and to the judicial administration. Kind of like Sweden and Finland. Finally, many institutions established in the last 15 years, particularly in transition countries, have been given a general mandate to protect human rights, therefore also to treat administration, judicial administration, and bodies with public authority, as well as individual legal persons. This trend is followed by or without the niveling of the law by almost all ombudsmen, as there is an increasing harmonisation and regulatory and practice of the institutions and human rights bodies within the Council of Europe and the European Union are simply dictated. Regardless of the differences, there are a number of common features, and they are fundamental that these institutions are founded as well as the Croatian Public Advocate at the Constitution or in some countries on laws, but also independence and independence in action regardless of how they are elected or appointed. The next feature is that it is primarily based on complaints from citizens and it is its basic task, but has the power to act on its own initiative. Then it is a simple and free approach for citizens and a very flexible procedure with little formalities. The occupier has no authoritarian powers, cannot lift and modify acts, cannot give compulsory orders. The power and authority of the Ombudsman depends on the social and professional justification of its findings, but when it is not enough, it also needs the support of the Parliament, so Parliament and the will to use Parliament's mechanisms and influence in controlling the administration. As you know, the Attorney General was founded by the 90th Constitution, and his section is closer to the 92th Regiment Act. The law to this day has not been amended even though the constitutional provision was completed in 2000. Although certain provisions of the Act of Part-Corruption of the Ombudsman have been established for a wider area of human rights, specific powers in the examination of individual complaints are mainly limited to the authorities of the state and local administrations and bodies with public authority. Therefore, in individual cases, the power to seek evidence, the obligation of the body to make those indications, to accept recommendations, etc. However, in the practice of citizens and the media, I would also say to the public, the institution of the Ombudsman is seen as a general institution for the protection of human rights and I refer to complaints also to courts, judicial administration and other legal persons they consider to threaten or violate their rights or when they do not know the second time legal protection. I must immediately say that the public defender, as the reports are visible, acts on such complaints, but indirectly through administrative bodies which exercise control under certain powers. So it's the Department of Justice, Inspectors, Regulatory Agency, etc. Of course, such indirect treatment is neither quick nor effective enough, nor are citizens satisfied with this. We already notified the Assembly in 2005 with a proposal to amend the Law on the Ombudsman. In view of the doubts raised at that time, the question of such a proposal in relation to the constitutional provision of Article 92, such a proposal has not yet been referred to the procedure explaining that the announced constitutional changes will remove all doubts. In this regard, it is probably also known that we have also submitted the initiative, and at the beginning of this year in February and formal initiative to amend the constitutional provision which, with all other initiatives, was at the first presentation before the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. We are convinced that the Parliament will also consider, and we hope and accept this initiative because the changes are needed in order to protect citizens' rights more effectively and strengthen Parliament's control function in relation to the administration, but they are also necessary because of the growing harmonisation of institutions and policies in the protection of human rights in the European area. There is also the need for the only constitutional institution for the protection of human rights in the Republic of Croatia to fully meet the criteria so-called The Paris principles of the United Nations can therefore fully communicate and cooperate with the relevant bodies and institutions of the Council of Europe, the European Union and the UN. I apologize for this part, he does not, of course, need those who have already followed the police counsel's reports several times. Now just a few words about this 2007 report. It is very extensive and is prepared according to standard methodology. It contains statistics on the number and type of complaints indicating trends for the last three years on the founding of complaints and measures taken, and then contains an indication of the areas with the largest number of complaints and the problems citizens face most frequently in these areas. Thirdly, it contains a very extensive display in the conduct of individual cases which best illustrates the problems that citizens face but also the way in which the administrative bodies are handled, and in the end, the handling of the Ombudsman's staff and cooperation, or not the co-operation of the administrative bodies, and ultimately contains the evaluations and proposals through which we warn the Assembly of appearances and areas that deserve special attention from the representatives. Of course, the report is not meant to convince or explain much. During the debate, we are prepared to show ourselves to suggestions and remarks, answer questions and explain certain allegations. I will only warn about some of the questions that we raised in the report, which make it difficult to achieve the rights of citizens and it is easy to see that it is about issues that are generally repeated in several recent reports by the attorney general, but are slowly and difficult to resolve. This is about the complexity of these problems, but also about weaknesses and deficits in the system. At a certain level, this also speaks of mechanisms which, by eventually accepting both evaluations and recommendations, can have a significant impact on the work and development of administrations in the Republic of Croatia. First of all, we highlighted specific problems in achieving citizens' right to rebuild housing and some other issues related to the return of temporary property. The complainants are among the vast majority of minorities mostly Serbs and refugees and returnees who have been difficult for years to achieve and fundamental assumptions for reintegration into Croatian society. I would say that resolving these issues is, in some ways through the two latest reports, a presumption of a successful conclusion of the negotiations on the accession of the European Union. In no way would it be good for a poor organisation to act bureaucratically and fail, and even illegalities in the work of responsible services question the unquestionable achievements in the area, including the ability and political will to carry out the commitments undertaken in the negotiation process. Secondly, we have warned of the long-standing failure to resolve the relationship between private owners and protected tenants in those apartments, leading to legal uncertainty and numerous violations of rights. The problem has been updated by the Constitutional Court report, which warned the parliament of a ten-year-old commitment to meet the legislative gap created after the abolition of the provisions of the Law on Renting Apartments. The unresolved situation has led to a large number of disputes with unequal court practice, but also to decisions of the Constitutional and Supreme Court that such legal void is not even possible. In addition to removing the legal gap, states should slowly create normative and material assumptions for the start of solving the overall problem that burdens both owners and tenants, and there is an indication that many cases are already referred to the European Court of Human Rights. In this report as well as last year, they specifically warned of the need to strengthen internal control at the Ministry of the Interior with our permanent proposal to write down some forms of participation of citizens in public complaints on the excessive use of force based on Article 6. The law of the police. Therefore, in order to meet the conditions in which the illegal conduct of police officers or overstepping of police powers will be reduced to the least possible measure. We have already addressed such recommendations and suggestions to the ministry on several occasions, and this is the second time we also call on the Parliament, we believe that there is something to be done and recommended. We have warned of a violation of the rights of persons deprived of liberty, also again, caused by inter alia by overcrowding of institutions, but also by the need to ensure in the legal system such remedies that will eliminate the need and the possibility of directly addressing deprived freedoms in the European Court of Human Rights. We know that there have been several direct addresses in recent years, and that in the legal home system it is necessary to provide legal means to sort this out in a way within the Republic of Croatia. We have highlighted the long-term duration of treatment and the great problems of citizens leading the denationalisation procedures that have been conducted as you know since '97, especially with regard to the lease of agricultural land. We also paid attention to and breach of the law in the application of official legislation after the entry into force of the new Law on civil servants, and as a result of the delay and non-compliance of accompanying or implementing regulations, so the Law on Payments and all that should be followed. Finally, as in all previous reports, the greatest attention and number of cells is given to the impunity and long-term nature of proceedings before courts and administrative bodies as the most common form of violation of the rights of citizens that threatens the legal security and rule of law which the European Court of Human Rights bear witness to, and henceforth, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the County, or Supreme Court. There have also been many debates in this House about the length of court proceedings. Our views on the causes and consequences and possible directions have been in the past years and are well known. Now, therefore, it does not need to be repeated, it now seems important to create assumptions for a further reduction in the number of cases already occurring in part before the court for the rational organisation of courts, but particularly important for the creation of conditions for the judicial administration, above all, for the Supreme Court to proceed, to implement the start-up programmes of the resolution of the backlogs, and to introduce and implement a permanent system of monitoring the evaluation and control within the system. In view of some concerns, I will point out that I also find some external control forms desirable when it comes to handling complaints of citizens can only be complementary and I cannot replace one such internal system. The failure to resolve administrative matters within a reasonable period which has also become subject to the decision of the European Court of Justice recently, and now also to the Constitutional and Supreme Court, which is most often in the process of restoring denationalisation, but also in the construction and pension and disability areas, regardless of the complexity of the proceedings, the problems in these areas, and the recorded staff problems of those services, can be improved by the organisation and the application and control of objections and provisions and the principle of the existing ZUP. In the report, we have very detailedly suggested what we think we should do. In these areas, however, this also requires a change in the view of ministers and management heads that resolving administrative cases may be a less important segment of their work and responsibility. But also full awareness that citizens are users who have the right to legal, effective and friendly administration at their service. There is a wrong belief, whether it may be a line of minor resistance or an excuse that the situation in the administration and the judiciary will change, improve only or mainly by changing the legal framework. The practice of frequent and major changes to regulations and without serious analysis of all aspects of their application leads to unnecessary norms where proper interpretation and the application of norms depends on better organisation, concrete measures and proper and responsible work and action. The reform of the judiciary and the reform of the administration are too many jobs to be largely aware only of the resorbing and proposing new regulations. Of course, this does not call into question the necessary adaptation of domestic legislation to the regulations of the European Union. It's a shame, but unfortunately, it's carried out in a hurry and a time narrow. In parallel, and sometimes, instead of constant legal changes that bring instability into the system by nature, measures should be implemented that stem from the obvious need for change and improvement of the judicial and administrative staff. Especially the management staff at the administration. It is not disputed that the system and its efficiency make up people and that their knowledge, professionalism and ethics need to be particularly highlighted which includes both independence and impartiality depend most on the good functioning of the system. Therefore, we should not forget that both in the judiciary and in the administration, we unfortunately have a long tradition of making choices, appointments not only by the criteria of professionalism and expertise but also by similarity and loyalty, as well as personal loyalty, which of course affects both independence and impartiality. Despite the obvious political will, declarations and welcome legal changes, the situation in the judiciary and in the administration in terms of expertise, professionalism and ethics still does not change quickly enough. With the need for permanent education and judges and administrative staff, this is more necessary because we do not have sufficient conditions for their choice or appointment or, for example, specialised training for administrative staff, the need to introduce and implement a permanent system of statistical data, monitoring, evaluation and control, and thus the possibility of removing from the systems of those who cannot meet the needs. As regards administrations with problems of education and education should also point to two key causes that have led to a negative selection and decline of professionalism, quality and motivation for work and progress in the state administration. On the one hand, it is a long-term lagging of civil servants' salaries for those in other services, the economy and those in local and regional administrations. On the other hand, it is still an uninterrupted vicious circle of setting up politically similar and personally loyal after any change in the election or change of ministers and, of course, local authorities. In addition to acting devastatingly on professionalism, professionalism and independence, such practice seriously detimises, makes it difficult to prevent and prevent the best of progress and careers. In the report, we expressed hope that such practice would be interrupted after the amendments to the law reduced the number of political officials in the administration. However, in many cases, bad practice and continued, and even after the Government regulation, which chose the highest management posts in the state administration, seems to have enabled previous officials under more favourable conditions than those applicable to other candidates. That's not a good sign. It reminds us of so far failed attempts to depolitize the administration. Long-term politicisation, except for the reduction of expertise and professionalism, is certainly about reducing independence and impartiality and fostering corruption. Any conjecture either on a political, ideological and interesting basis is corruption. The further consequence of politicisation is that some of the management people in the administration are held accountable only to those who have appointed them and not to the citizens. There is no doubt that such a situation affects the most so-called. small people, ordinary citizens without power and influence and most often without quality legal help. Such a situation has a devastating effect on both social morality and cohesion and trust in the state and its institutions. And while inequality and social differences are accepted as a consequence of the most selected social model inequality and differences in treatment in front of state bodies are clearly inadmissible. In a society where it is otherwise believed that, through unfair and illegal privatisation, there has been a redistribution of social wealth in favour of the chosen, often politically similar and linked to the centres of political power, they should take special care of it because at the same time, from the war of conversion and privatisation, many without their guilt came out weaker and poor, losing property, work and dignity. Many refer to the vacancy attorney when it comes to the complaint of a specific case. But many also address and point to what they consider to be an injustice and a social evil. They point out that not everyone is equal to the law, that money and power and influence are stronger than law and justice, and that those who have acquired power and money in an illegal and immoral way today are using the same methods and that the state does not prevent it enough. The capital acquired in this way but the suspect and criminal background corresponds to ineffectiveness and disorder in the judiciary and administration. I carry here the opinions of people who come to the office and say, "I am not asking for anything, however, many of those who ask me to present their evaluations to Parliament as an authority of Parliament." At the end of this part, I would only say a brief word about the working conditions and the development of the institution. The funds of 5 million 800 in the 2007 budget made it possible to employ 5 new employees so that at the end of 2007, there were 25 employees. The 2008 budget of cca 7 million kuna was carried out with a delay of one year but that conclusion of the Croatian Parliament in June 2005 so that at the end of this year the office will count as it was 32. And that is a good sign and gratitude to those who have allowed that conclusion to be carried out by the Parliament. The issue of insurance of the business space is more current, it is current now. The office as a temporary solution in the headquarters of the Opatija benefits and two rooms in the Assembly building on the Upper City, and I also thank you for that. However, it is not a permanent solution. The issue of space for work is the more relevant that according to the draft Law on Discretion of Discrimination with the Ombudsman is intended for the role of the central body to combat discrimination in the Republic of Croatia, and this requires further expansion and strengthening of the institution. It therefore seems justified to order the Croatian Parliament, by binding advocacy, the responsible services, together with the Ombudsman, to establish and resolve the means of resolution and make the necessary formal decisions. In a letter to the President of the Parliament, I have already warned, or tried to indicate that it might be a building on the corner of Basariček and Demetrova Street that has entered the state property and that it will need a good adaptation, and so far it is empty. I think it would be good to make formal decisions in that sense in the Committee on State Property. In that sense, I request the support of the Parliament. In the end, I must commend myself on an international recognition that came to the occupier this summer. The International Co-ordination Committee for the National Institutions, which is one representative body of the national human rights institutions and partner of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights of the United Nations, accredited the institution of the Polish Ombudsman as a national institution for the promotion and protection of these human rights with the status of A. It is the highest status granted to the national human rights institution that meets the criteria set out in the Paris principles set out by the General Assembly once again in Resolution '93. the year and which has prescribed minimum requirements for obtaining the status of an institution for protection and promotion in which independence, credibility and functionality are high priority. We consider this a great recognition for the work of this institution so far, its independence and credibility, but also an incentive for further strengthening in order to fully meet the criteria set out in the Paris principles. This accreditation is subject to audit every 5 years. Specific recommendations shall also be made when granting the status. It is also recommended in this accreditation that the Ombudsman receive wider powers to protect and promote human rights. I don't mean some authoritarian warrants, etc., but in the scope, which means that our proposal is that, as in the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, powers are given both in relation to legal persons and the judicial administration. I would say that these recommendations are fully in line with the proposals we made to the Parliament through a formal initiative to amend the constitutional provision, and that the Law on Discussing Discrimination, which the Parliament has adopted, is a step in this direction. And quite in the end, thank God, the constitutional institution of the occupier and indeed, not only formally through all of this becomes the central national institution for the protection of human rights. And regardless of the outcome of the proposal for a change in the Constitution, strengthening the institution will be continued because this requires the need to apply European standards in the protection of human rights, but this also dictates the necessity of harmonisation and integration in the European and world system of institutions and policies in this area. In addition, in the European environment, a step from formal and normative in real and life, from law and declaration to administrative and judicial practice, will be needed very quickly, in the way all state bodies and institutions operate. This will be important in determining the further development of the institution of the attorney general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15229	Thank you. Would the committee's representatives like to take the floor? I don't see anyone. No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15230	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Mr. Police Attorney. If it has not been clear to anyone by now why this report is being acidified on the Parliament's agenda for more than 6 months, why it took the government more than 5 months to give an opinion on it and why it says in that opinion that it is receiving it, then I guess it's quite clear now. You shouldn't have even waited for the oral explanation of the attorney general. It was enough to concentrate on the text of the 2007 report itself, which unfortunately does not bring much news compared to previous annual reports. This report says that the institution of the occupier has independence and independence in the work and benefits it. We also see from it the tenacity and perseverance of the attorney general, that what the Constitution and the law have truly carried out. It is also clear that the scope and breadth of the topic, even though the existing legal framework of our public defendership does not put into order those generals that can, of course, help in cases of unfavourable court practice and administration, i.e. public enterprises. Another piece of information is very important, which is that 72% of complaints from last year have been resolved. That's a high percentage. However, when you look at the fact that 15% of all written and 50% of all oral complaints and the address of the occupiers refer to court practice, it is a very important question whether the time has come to consider a new legislative initiative, or a new law, which will put the ombudsman in those frameworks in which it can function functionally in a whole range of other areas than those that the law has so far given him in power. There's a growing number of complaints from citizens. Last year, 1878 or 12% higher. We do not want to believe that this is a trend in the deterioration of the human rights situation, but rather an increase in the level of information of citizens. We should welcome the safe printing of flyers, informative flyers, especially those on Braille's letter, and also the learning of deaf language by counselors in the office. It is expected that the number of cases, or complaints, will grow. We hope that it will reflect citizens' awareness and awareness that there is an institution that I can address and that can help them. The good news is that out of the total number of cases, only in 900 measures were required to be taken by the Ombudsman, such as recommendations, advice, warnings, and that in other cases the procedure was completed relatively quickly after the lawyer’s address to the competent authority. Unfortunately, those cases that come from domains that are the dominant consequences of war, the collapse of the former state, the property-legal relations that have arisen, minority rights, care, restoration, compensation still prevail. The second most common cause is longevity in administrative procedures, lack of legal certainty, which is in fact a violation of human rights. The riot and inefficiencies in this area are the basis for corruption. This raises the question of how mature and how fast is it reformed, and does the public administration reform itself at all? It seems to me that we from these assembly benches can't see it, and we won't see it, and it's much easier to see it from the position of the attorney general and through the procedures he conducts on a daily basis. What concerns is the relationship of the part of the body of the state administration, or bodies with public authority to the institution of the attorney general. Of course, there are also positive examples, and they should be highlighted. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office, the Administrative Court, the Central Office of the State Administration, but here there are several equative examples that are clear and call for action. If the government has not read enough information from this report to keep some people out of their duties, because in fact by their actions they abuse the position and seriously violate human rights, then I don't know what else to write. Let's take the case of Assistant Minister of the Interior, J.K. The deputy minister's name is Zarko Katic. Read pages 78 - 80, which are cases where he and how he acted, i.e. how he did not act, or how he ignored the institution of a public defender and made a direct mockery. He used to be an assistant minister, probably not anymore today because he's gone. Today may be the director of the administration. He writes loud and clear here what are the things that put him in a position to seriously ask his employer if he can do the job still. Furthermore, for several years, complaints have been explicit about the work of the Attorneys' and Rehabilitation Administration. Sometimes in the Ministry of the Sea and Development, today it seems to me at the Ministry of Forestry and Water Economy. Is there more to the government than what it says here to ask for the minister's heroic health, who works for him in these administrations, and why are laws being broken eclatively and year after year? It is a very unequal practice to respect the Law on the Ombudsman in matters of public administration bodies. Some truly respect the obligation to notify the Ombudsman of the measures taken within 30 days at the latest, and some have completely ignored it for years. We think that we should seriously approach the issues raised by this report, that as a responsible Croatian Parliament, we should support an initiative that goes in order to define or redefine the position of the Ombudsman, i.e. the Ombudsman, to extend his powers, i.e. in part, to a positive European practice, so the practices of those ombudsmans that cover both the areas of the judiciary and the availability, such as municipal services, but also to implement what we have established and defined in the new Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which expects much and defines him as the central body practically for the implementation of this law, i.e. to monitor it. These are serious obligations. On the other hand, it seems to me that we are slowly going to the inflation of the attorney generals in certain areas. The Ombudsman’s Office for Children, the Ombudsman’s Attorney General’s Office for Gender Equality, is an area that comes from European practice as special. Now we've already got a third, a fourth initiative, I hear there's an initiative for a fifth. Will this inflation and atomization of the system help or help? The more ombudsman, the more protection seems to be available at first sight, but is it true? Isn't there actually a whole series of institutions that are going to have less and less powers in this area? Therefore, we have also referred to the procedure one conclusion that we propose to the Government to consider this situation by the end of 2009 and to propose a complete solution covering all relevant areas. These are also areas of protection of labour rights. These are defined specific areas of protection of minority rights. There are other areas where the need for the public's staff attorney's activity is equident. Furthermore, we think that a positive practice, let's say the Ombudsman for children who has already established three regional offices is actually a positive practice and that something like this should be done in this case. That it is not only in Zagreb, but it is also available regionally. On the principle of regionalization, the office and the public defenders, i.e. assistants, deputies, people working in these offices, are closer to a small man who is not easy to reach Zagreb, or contact the addresses in Zagreb. In any case, Mr. Malcic, I congratulate you on another successful year at the arraignment of the Ombudsman, I announce that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support your report and thank you for the courage that guides you and the commitment in this business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15231	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15232	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Beus Richembergh, who said that it took the Government of the Republic of Croatia five months to give an opinion on the 2007 report on the work of the Polish Ombudsman. That's not true, because the report arrived in July. Thank you very much. ... It's accurate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15233	The club of representatives of the HSS, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15234	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, Mr. Malcic, colleagues and colleagues. The professionalism of which the Ombudsman reports to this Assembly on matters from his domain, the authority of this House certainly seriousises each of us in a possible discussion, subject, topics he deals with, which report and lowers any temperature that a person might have in view of the character of these problems, and one part of these problems I have dealt with as a representative for several mandates, and I have dealt with even at a time when I was not a representative, when I was acting from the sphere of civil society. That, by any chance, here on the agenda, the report on the state of the HTV is quite certain that this discussion would be different, but hopefully it will come and we'll have a chance to discuss it too, because it seems to me that it's time to come. But let's get back to this report. I fully agree with my colleague, Beus, when he talks about the danger of inflation of the civil defenders and instead of focusing on strengthening the regional presence of the attorney general's office with his offices in certain counties where there is a clear and necessary need for this, which cannot be replaced by the work of NGOs or possibly by some other organisations, we are of course committed to producing some other public defenders. Instead of opting for a large number of assistants to be directed at certain areas or assistants, which would be focused on certain areas and that there are a number of offices in some of our counties where it is necessary to resolve certain issues, we ourselves are trying to initiate a few other defence offices, or even a few other defence functions. It's really the best way for this job that the attorney general with his assistants and assistants and his entire team is doing, devalued, and, of course, to spend state resources in a way that will not be spent as effectively as it would be spent if we had as much coordination as possible and as much connection as possible. And with all due respect to my colleagues who, as far as I've seen, have been initiated to form another occupancy, it would be almost like if we were the National Minorities Club or the SDSS Club that advocated the establishment of a special occupancy for the rights of national minorities. Although there is an office for national minorities for this, there is a tip that reports and there is this public defender who does not miss any of the things that we need to report to this Assembly even when we do not enjoy hearing it. Indeed, we trust him because he does it equally professionally and when it comes to pensioners, when it comes to employees, when it comes to minority members and when it comes to any vulnerable group in our society. And that's why I want to appeal from this pay phone that we actually stop when it comes to it. We've got the vacancy attorney for the kids, we've got the vacancy attorney for gender equality, we've got the vacancy attorney, and I think as far as we're concerned, we've covered those populations that were turn to cover, and now it's time to strengthen the vehicular attorney's office and set up his regional offices as it would be right where it's necessary. As for the very matter that the Ombudsman here reports in this report as well as in his address to this House, most of it is very well known to me, and the problem of housing, and the problem of property and property recovery, and the problem of reconstruction. And I have to say that he's really objective at the examples he's familiar with, the examples he's been working with, he's shown the situation as it is. That doesn't mean there aren't any examples where something was done, but whoever's being directed and complaining to the attorney general about getting what he belongs to, it's not anybody doing it, it's the one who's got the problem, and that's why the attorney general's there. And for that reason, it's our job to help the attorney general and, of course, to help people who have this problem, to start solving these issues. The issue of property in the Zadar hinterland occupied for years in which individual units of local self-government participated, and that means the state, can't be as unresolved as it has been for so many years and we can't take it as a state because someone in some period, in some years said take it, is yours, we give it to you, I give it to the mayor of the municipality or I give it to the municipality. It can't be. And that's why four or five million people in this country can't take it because someone decided to divide a few dozen acres or a few hundred acres into grandmothers and uncles, believing they could do it. He didn't share his share, he divided others. He did not divide by the fact that his personal power was based on state power as the head of the municipality. So the state, the Ministry of Justice, we, can't stand by and wait for the attorney general to settle it, or wait for me to settle it just as a representative of a specific population in this country. The second question is the judiciary. I'm saying this to my colleagues and colleagues because I've been at the door countless times and I've been to the ministries and she'd be the door to the government where I'm a member of the coalition, but we haven't found a way to solve it. Why? Because it doesn't descend beyond Mark's square, it doesn't even go to Ban Jelačić Square, let alone some street or some city where it should be solved. I'm saying this because some colleagues and colleagues who did this as mayors of the municipalities are sitting in this House today. Another thing I'm trying to say is today our courts are making judgments for the destroyed property of people during a wartime outside the field of war. 321 or almost 350 such litigation started in '92. and '93. A year. Then people had a seven-year break where they were in legal limbo, because the processes were frozen until '96. They started in 2003. Today, they lose their case in a row and they have to pay their dues. 120 grand, 90 grand, 50 grand. Why? Because the legislator, including this Assembly and including the state institutions and the ministry, put them in a position not to know which one they began under one law, and they are tried under another law. And because the legislation has been amended, they need to pay the fines. It is a punishment for them, for the Law of Prosecution requires them to bear the expense of the lawsuit they lost, and they did not lose because they were guilty, but because we and the state were to blame for bringing them into such a state. And if that's what it says in this report if we do something like that and... it's a duty, because that's how we swore before this House, then I invite you colleagues and colleagues to come together and get rid of it. Because with that package not only we can't move on, with that package we couldn't and we shouldn't be able to look each other in the eye. Thank you, Mr. Attorney General, thank you for encouraging us to do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15235	Thank you. Club of HDZ Representatives Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15236	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General with an associate. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club considered and took note of this full report by the occupier. The report really fully shows the environment in which we live and covers almost all segments of society. The titles of the report mentioned above refer to the liveliness and scope of the work of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman's report is content and divided into a review of statistical data, analysis by legal fields, a tour of regional self-government in which we see that in 2007, 5 counties in ours, nicely ours, international cooperation, evaluations and proposals to improve work. At first, it should be pointed out what the Ombudsman himself stated in this report that what was done this time was a different methodology and more detailed areas were systematicised and perhaps at least in relation to what the complaints were about, so perhaps a more difficult comparison with the previous reports is. However, it is evident that in 2007, as many as a thousand 878 complaints were received, as far as 233 more than in 2006, a colleague who had previously stated on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS probably because of this, the most reason he believed is that people were referred to the occupier, therefore more informed and they know more about the institution of the occupier. Citizens from what the report says address the occupier only when they encounter a problem in front of administrative authorities, state or local authorities. It is also interesting to observe the percentage of established and unfounded or even premature complaints, because such people also have and he found that even a certain number of those complaints and complaints are citizens who are unfounded, so they are premature, because certainly when citizens observe their personal right, their personal claim is indeed every time and is not fast, they need a quick solution and perhaps unfounded. The largest number of complaints made is as I said about the length of the proceedings. That is why we are witnessing today that reforms of the judiciary and the state administration have taken place to resolve the course and speed up the course of individual cases. The Ombudsman himself claimed that in 2007 a drop in the number of complaints related to complaints related to the consequences of the war was observed. in cases relating to exiles and refugees, the pension disability area, which is certainly commendable. He also pointed out the problem of living care of returnees and exiles, the return of temporarily seized assets and warned of the most frequent objections to the war in the ministry, related to the 2007 sea, tourism, transport and development, precisely for the exiles and administration for restoration, because the largest number of complaints refer to the length of proceedings, but I have already noted that this issue is really complex, those people who come from the field of special state care, of particular national interest, are daily confronted with the problem of housing or the right to rebuilding, and I know that people most often complain about the length of the proceedings. But knowing the comprehensiveness of such solutions issued by these bodies from property legal, ownership relations, I would say sometimes even to personal desires that I need to be renewed more than I do, sometimes without a basis such a number of complaints I believe does not decrease nor in 2007. The Advocate General has also proposed a series of measures that can be implemented in haste and for the purpose of an effective and rapid resolution of long-term administrative procedures. The government has begun a full reform of the state administration. I believe in respecting what you said to the Ombudsman in 2006 and pointed out in your report, and in order to certainly raise the quality of work, financial, material rights of civil servants and subsistence. This year's report on the work of the Ombudsman has a special place of appeal on the work of the courts, as many as 15% of the total complaints refer to courts, especially in this report, commending the work of the Supreme Court, but commended for carrying out measures and actions to resolve cases more quickly and control the work of the courts by transferring and deploying cases according to the burden of the courts, leading to the resolution of a large number of old cases from 2004 to 2007 which the report refers to even 38.7% of the cases, the old cases in courts. We must point out that the Department of Justice is aware of the situation of the judiciary and has begun a whole series of measures. Well, the attorney general himself, in his report, advocates the rationalization of the courts. If we remember last session, those summer sessions we also started this debate on the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia, which means that the Ombudsman also advocates that the network be rationalised and thus speed up court proceedings. It also advocates free legal assistance, long-term build-up of the attorney's system and, above all, what the Ministry of Justice, the Justice Department does, I apologize, for the education and quality of our judges' education. The Ombudsman also warned of a large number of different rights from the social care system, and pointed to incomplete records of social assistance users that cause frequent and unfair distribution. By passing the Law on Personal I.D., I think we're going to solve this problem a lot. That we are really going to get this and one full picture of those users and of the records of social assistance users. Finally, we must note that the special chapter is also dedicated to the working conditions of the Office of the Public Prosecutor, which shows that the funds for the Office's work are increasing each year, so the Office in 2007 strengthened the staff by 5 new employees. In 2008, by discussing the budget, we saw that the budget was increased and the resources for both material and functional... The Attorney General's Office, which will also enable the recruitment of nine new employees, and I believe that today's Ombudsman has also pointed out to us that there is a link to the worst problem and that is the space for the work of this Office, which will certainly enable citizens to have better access to this Office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to make better information, my colleagues have already pointed out the work of the Ombudsman, the Office has also undertaken a whole series of activities from the printing of flyers, which I believe has helped many citizens to get to know the very institution of the Ombudsman and to educate employees to communicate more easily with people who have difficulty with speech and hearing, which is also important and because of what the chief of staff and advocates are. for equality and the rights of all our citizens. And here at the end on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, respecting everything that has been said in this report, our Club took note of the 2007 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15237	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15238	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Attorney-General, respected colleagues and colleagues for every government that holds onto its citizens, who cares whether or not they voted for them in favour of the Ombudsman's report is a very important document that is not easily bypassed and not to be ignored. It is important for this very reason because it speaks about the state of human rights in the country, about protecting the rights of citizens, citizens and their ability to all feel the same in front of the law. But it doesn't seem to matter to this government. And that this is the fact that the report by the occupier waited months for the assembly session to take place while the other two defence attorneys had long received the support of the parliament. Of course, this raises the logical question, is it not difficult for the congregation’s majority to read all about what the Ombudsman writes and warns about? It all points to the fact that this is the case, and that is confirmed by only a report in which the Croatian Parliament's ombudsman states that the ministers do not want to talk to him, but that they refer him to the assistant ministers, which we consider really inadmissible in the SDP. After all, the government made clear its opinion of the report to everyone who thinks, what it thinks about this report and, therefore, the institution of the attorney general. In its opinion, the government has only taken note of the report by the attorney general, unlike the reports of other children's defenders and gender equality that it has accepted. Dear gentlemen, if human rights are violated because citizens cannot exercise their rights and legal interests within a reasonable period of time, regardless of any other circumstances, the State is responsible. The resulting non-functioning of the state administration unnecessarily burdens this burdened judiciary as citizens in the last instance address their problems to one of the courts. Many of these disputes ended with a ruling on financial compensation due to the system's slowness, which means that the system's ineffectiveness is again being paid by citizens in their pockets. It is high time to reform a state administration that would be in the service of citizens, more efficient and rational. Building a system in which every citizen is equally important to this government is not a priority for which we get confirmation every day. Declaratively condemn any occurrence or event is not the purpose of the existence of power. The purpose is to serve and be responsible for it. For example, just this year at the time of vacations and summer breaks, the government has launched more than 300 competitions for ministry work. It's interesting how all of this happened during the holidays to stay away from the eyes of the public. During the summer, a tender for even 181 seats was opened at the Ministry of Economy for 95, at the Ministry of Family and Intergenerational Solidarity, 20 new employees will arrive. I will also remind you that four years ago, the president of the HDZ, Prime Minister Sanader, presented a programme that should have reorganised the entire state administration. You in HDZ then said that you have a plan that will significantly reduce the number of state services and ultimately reduce the number of employees in the state administration by as much as 30%. Of course, as well as any of your other projects you've guaranteed, there's nothing. I'm going to go back to the judiciary that I mentioned, and I'm going to think of as burdened by a bunch of lawsuits with the rest and for that because someone in the state administration doesn't do their job for which they've been paid. And so the burdened judiciary is the subject of a large number of complaints from citizens because the impunity of courts and the longevity of judicial proceedings is a major problem for citizens. Such slowness in solving cases through every reasonable measure is a difficult violation of the right of citizens and damages both the individual and society as a whole. The long-term nature of the proceedings, bypassing the order of cases, uncertainty as to where the verdict could be resolved regardless of the outcome leads to doubt about the fairness of the proceedings and opens up a space for corruption. The key problem of this country is that the ruling political elite supports a system in which the socially endangered, the poor are almost or very difficult to fight for their constitution and the law guaranteed rights while those other rich and socially more easily achieve their interests sometimes, but too often at the expense of the poor. We agree in the SDP that it is not inevitable in Croatia and that it is inadmissible for the state of the rule of law to divide into poor and weak and rich and powerful in front of state bodies. How else to interpret a recent case in Vukovar that was discovered by media in which one judge allowed a local powerful man to build, watch out for a housing building with 60 apartments in which 60 families live without any documentation based solely on the testimony of two people, that he bought this building to God right before the war was destroyed. Unfortunately, this is also possible in Vukovar, which is so often mentioned. And what happens now. Probably nothing “eats a wolf’s donkey. ” On the other hand, one of the fundamental human rights is the right to housing and protection of private property. For a number of our fellow citizens, that's the right only on paper. If someone after 13 years is unable to come into possession of their property, then it is a question that the right in this country can ever be realized. For 18 years in this country, the issue of nationalised and confiscated dwellings and tenants who have the status of protected tenants has not been resolved. It's mostly about old people who are scared every day of being thrown out into the street and the violence directed towards them by apartment owners. Not a small number of those who ended up on the street in the middle of the night violently kicked out of the apartment they've been living in for decades. Of course, apartment owners have the right to own their own property, but not by jeopardizing the rights of others. Rather, old injustices cannot and must not be corrected by new injustices and the system of protection of human rights has failed. In his report, the occupier also warns of an increasing number of complaints from citizens about police behaviour. Police are part of a state apparatus that should primarily protect citizens, but lately police are increasingly appearing in the opposite role of abusers. In particular, yesterday, a charge was filed against a police officer who beat up a young man on duty. There are no weeks to regret not to read that the consequences of someone somewhere, the police have beaten someone even to the point where there were fatalities. The fact is, we witnessed a few months ago that an unfortunate death of a 20-year-old young man from Bjelovar who died of police intervention. Have you read about the conviction of this incident by the police officers? Is anyone responsible for that case? Unfortunately, abuses happen, but somehow it is rare to get the impression that in the police leadership, it is silent and easy to cross violent people in its own ranks. On the one hand, violence against citizens, and on the other hand the ineffectiveness of police in response when citizens seek help, reacting to calls by citizens for intervention that are often neglected. They are not treated as being completely ineffective in the fight against organised crime. I wonder what the state's message was that in 110 days, it failed to find the attackers against journalist Dusan Miljuš and those who ordered it. What is the message when the prosecution of the attackers, so direct perpetrators and perpetrators of the brutal attack on the director of the Zagreb Roads of Radjenović, is only asking for a year and a half prison, and that only requires a year and a half. It's like they just happened to find themselves here, and I guess they were trying to take his hat! He's gone and there's no evidence that it's organized crime and organized conspiracy. Unfortunately, therefore, it is not surprising yesterday's most arrogant attack on citizens when in broad daylight outside the ministry an entrepreneur, Josip Galinec, was attacked. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as president of the Assembly Committee on Presentations and Appeals, citizens meet daily with the despair of people, and I believe you as fellow representatives who no longer have any faith in the system that in many cases violates, instead of protecting the human rights of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens from disrespecting the judgments of the Administrative Court, the Constitutional Court, the suspension of the amount of pensions, the non-return to work mainly in the state administration and many others. So this report is very important, because it opens our eyes to all of us and points to very serious violations of our fellow citizens' rights, warns them, and I do not know how many times it suggests measures that would quickly and effectively correct wrongs that are not small. The SDP supports this report and will insist that it not only remains a letter on paper, because the government does nothing to accept suggestions and suggestions and to do something actively to protect human rights that are being violated by system failure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15239	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Zastica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15240	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Agent Dragovan in his debate on this report listed everything and the least information from the Police Attorney's Report. It is not true, sir, that this government does not take care of exiles, refugees, human rights, the poor, etc. You said the police aren't doing their job. That's not true. He's certainly doing his job. It is evident that the government is also taking care of what it is and how it is. However, you know very well about the director of the Zagreb roads, you be brave and tell the police who talked you into beating Radjenovic. That's right, and don't wrap the police around here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15241	Now, this second part was no longer a correction, so let's refrain from such additional comments. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15242	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General, the esteemed gentlemen of the Parliament. I'd like to get to this debate a little bit over the high and high rainbow coves near Pula, etc. So let me say something about my opinion about what happened yesterday, but some other time about it. I am primarily of the opinion that under the influence of this servile lawyer, a lawyer for gender equality and counsellors for children, including disabled people, should no longer think about new lawyers, I do not know about pensioners and I do not know what is not. I think it would be an additional waste of money, and the benefits of the new defenders will be small or will benefit very, very modest. Finally, the Attorney General's Office for Gender Equality, Children, etc., excuse me if I'm wrong, for me it's just kind of taking care of my party friends and that's one way of saying it. The fact that the Swedes, for example, know such a standard does not mean that Croatia can afford it. The second thing that just surprised me in this report, I didn't know it, was that a public defender for his position or at his position draws attention to even the lenses. It's funny to me, no matter what Mr. Beus said hello or rather commended it. On page 3 of this report, it is literally said that "in order to inform the general public of the part-round work of the Ombudsman, an additional 10 thousand copies of the flyers under the title can be done for you by the Ombudsman-ombudsman" etc., etc. I said, it's just absurd. Imagine if some Croatian president or health minister printed such flyers so we would all just laugh at these people. What's he saying? That's what the gentlemen say our people don't believe in the constitutional position of the attorney general. If so, and probably so, then that's also the problem of this House and the co-expression of the executive government. The executive power is, clearly in this country can do anything, others can't do anything. I think it's clear the same, let's say our public defender that the only real power in Croatia at this point has executive power, has a large capital first of all, those that are derived from conversion and privatisation and clear media, some of which, as is the case in one newspaper in Istria, mean they get even severance in the amount of 1.2 million kuna, and then they call all the time us, but they get severances from millions and 200 thousand kunas. What would I do as an object of work, for example, to appoint a general attorney? Why, for example, people have been working in construction in Croatia for decades and then overnight, let's say, lose work permits. Why does it take 4, 5, 8 months for someone in this country to get a pension right? Why can't the disabled of World War II be even with the disabled of the Homeland War? Why does the state sell Oil at times when and in America Bush starts buying individual private companies to save the survival of some of its major national systems. To be clear, then whoever's asking for the help of the attorney general has reached only the bottom. This one, then, has lost all hope that someone in this country can help him. If someone who talks to the occupier had the money to take care of himself, he certainly wouldn't be talking to an address in Opatija. Our tycoons will surely never address the tycoon's tycoons as the tycoon's attorney. So who's talking to him? I'm talking to the poor and, as a rule, a solution to that poor girl, which is tragically, sadly, gone. Whoever in this country, for example, destroys an 850 million kuna Lenac, punishes him for walking a dog around the Caves. Whoever destroys a bank, he certainly won't address the attorney general, but will say that he is a victim of the system, as he recently did, seems to have announced to me a few weeks ago that Thompson himself will address you because of the blatant threat to his work rights. And I would now ask you or all of you gentlemen MPs what would happen in one Germany if someone at the concerts welcomed you with "Sig Heil" or what would happen if someone in Germany sang about "Auschwitz" and "Dachau" or what would happen in one Germany if a minister or vice president went to those concerts and some political faction organised those concerts? What would happen, I don't think you should say. Either these individuals would go to the asylum or go to jail, and those political factions would probably be banned. What makes our people come forward, how do we like to tell the ombudsman or the occupier? First of all, because of the length of the proceedings, whether administrative or judicial. Interesting that the number of complaints is growing, it is interesting that the right to defend the apostrophysed as the first problem, means problem number 1 in the work of the attorney general. I don't know if the attorney general asked that those who simply don't do it be sanctioned, but it's interesting, too, is that a lot of problems are actually, or a lot of problems are focused on what Mr. Pupovac was talking about earlier. These are the problems that occurred after the Storm, when individuals irrevocably burned and burned. So, this problem with the refugee's return problem, the restoration talks among other things about the consequences left by the war on us, talks about one, what to call an objective tragedy, but also the actions of individuals who have abused the Croatian name after some military-redhartic actions. The state has nowhere to go today. These problems, understandably, must be solved, costing us how much it cost, the refund should not be stopped, what is important among other things or mentioned here on page 26 that in the court proceedings initiated by the owners for the eviction of the temporary users, the problem of the length of the proceedings, delays, executions, judgments and that I do not list everything further when it comes to the conduct of our courts. So here we're talking about, how do I say returning the temporarily occupied property, or rather not returning it? I don't know why you use a busy time here. Why not use, for example, the term possessed or illegally acquired. However, whatever the case, and the state of restoration is certainly not well, and it is not good to bear witness to the fact that a public defender of 200 pages of this report, as much as 48 devotes himself to this particular matter. As regards pension insurance, on page 49, all types of complaints, length and duration of the procedure, data delivery, etc. are discussed here. etc. And I'm going to point out another problem here. It's been heard or often now that it's been mentioned lately, I've mentioned it only by chance, when, for example, the disabled of World War II will equalize themselves with the disabled of the Homeland War. Now you can laugh, but I'll tell you a paradoxical case, like Karl Deprato. That's one camper who was in an Italian camp from 41 to 45. When the war ended, meaning escaped, one-other, came to Istria, handed over to him the fascist garrison in March, those fascists as political prisoners earned a political pension or the right to a political pension, and he struggled for five or six years through the IDS club to be recognised for being a disgraceful political prisoner, to exercise the right to spend three or four years in an Italian camp. Second, pensioners who have been for a while, for example. worked in Bosnia, Serbia, Slovenia etc. It takes me a year to get their pensions. It's just inadmissible. As far as the prisons are concerned, there's a lot of things being said here, we're very deficiting about space, but that's what I think our judiciary is worried about, so when I say you destroy the bank, then you don't get punished, when you get two tunas up, then either two cartons of cigarettes will be settled or handcuffed, brought in by an investigative judge. The best example of how we make sure our prisons aren't overloaded is yesterday's Constitutional Court case clearly if he can be a Head of State, perhaps on the loose, why would these others be in prison, to be cynical. Secondly, these remarks on the situation in our prisons are that they are overcrowded and not good, etc. It's clearly not good, but we also need to understand that prison can't be either Hilton or Sheraton clearly and prisoners are people and they have to be protected, they can't be exposed to infections, diseases, the deterioration of health, which is listed here, but I'm afraid the situation in our general hospitals isn't much better. He clearly needs money for everything. There's no money. The money, we see what the situation on the stock market is probably going to be less and less every day, so maybe these three or four defense attorneys should be joined together. Maybe we can get out of here. Maybe I should touch this unfortunate parking lot of ours. I don't know if you know that on the Croatian Railways, as many as 102 unionists enjoy the so-called Management contracts, and based on these managerial contracts, the 102 unionists have an average salary of $13,000. That's the same truth. Let's let go of the benefited internship, marenda, etc. But that's what to say. I don't know if you know that on Croatian broadcasting if it's true what we received last year, 300 people receive more pay than ministers, and that their decline in ratings is from day to day with these 600 million kunas collected from taxpayers, etc. What am I saying? The parliament certainly is not ideal, I will not say that the best thing Croatia has, but I may not be far from this truth if this is to be determined. Finally, the attorney general is like an attorney, eating down here with us. He knows what food is so he doesn't need to be told. He's about as busy as we are, so he doesn't need to be further reassured. To end what do you say? The report must be useful. It apostrophes a whole series of problems of administration, judiciary, legal uncertainty, reconstruction, the need for housing care, return, prisons, pensions, health care, etc. And if the institutions were to do their job as much as this Parliament does, probably a civil defender would have less to do. It's clear, the attorney general will always be needed. Croatia has a whole series of problems, but I think, no matter what, I will say once again, that the main problem in this country is certainly not this Parliament that we see and based on some of the actions that happened today. All in all, it is understandable that the IDS Club will support this report by the Police Attorney for 2007 and would like the 2008 report to come before us as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15243	Thank you very much. It is nice to hear from Kajin MPs that the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament put on one solid level of value, because we are constantly permanent every day both as a Parliament and as representatives and MPs, constantly exposed to one excessive criticism so that it is good to hear that one critical representative also says something good critical about the Croatian Parliament. One correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Gordan Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15244	Boris. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was going to say that apparently some here tonight are taking out their political pamphlets and views instead of discussing the prosecutor's report. However, there are numerous inaccuracies, one of which applies to whether, that the Ombudsman can only be addressed and addressed only by the poor. I would say that the Ombudsman has the right to address every citizen and colleague Kajin as well as Marko Perkovic whom you call here tonight again, because I call you again to something else, which is who gives you the right to judge at all and that is discrimination and the way you treat it. In fact, in this country, we have institutions that need to enforce laws, not you judge someone who is what and who can, who can't, that's not your right. And one last question to you, since you asked it to us. When will you finally equalize the symbols of all totalitarian systems?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15245	Mr. Matkovic, so please colleague, let's not. We can ask the MP a question through the institution correcting an incorrect quote, yes. An individual debate. At 18.10, the time for the application for a 10-minute hearing expires. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15246	Dear Vice President, distinguished public defender, colleagues and colleagues. My exposure will be extremely brief. I am using this opportunity to express my full support for both the Ombudsman's report and Mr Malcic, who is headed by the institution for what makes this country of itself, and not under the pressure of the European or their public, as much as the more civilised rule of law is pleasant and desirable for the life of all its citizens. Unfortunately, this finding, which has now been made by both Vice President and Mr Caine, seems to be dealing with the Attorney General's request for the protection of rights by the Parliament's parliamentarians, a small joke, but any questioning of the situation is desirable. No demeaning is desirable. These criticisms that are being referred to, and from this payphone, I will also now direct one, I would like as a representative in this House that we are more often giving suggestions and suggestions, and less quoting the report and reports, less quoting the laws that I support and members of the laws that we have received in writing. I therefore join those who will support and support the strengthening of the defence institutions, support everything that has been put forward here about improving the conditions, support the form of decentralisation or bringing the institution closer to the public's defences to concrete needs on the ground, and support all the people who work in the defence to give us detailed information on what perhaps we do not want to see or hear or hear about what we know, and we are not able to express as the problem of this country. So, as yesterday, I wouldn't have caused the esteemed colleague Lesar to lose his word at this point, and I hope that he will be here today, because yesterday he fell out of order because of me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15247	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15248	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Attorney General and Deputy Secretary of State. The first thing I'm trying to say is that I'm saddened by the fact that the Assembly Hall is almost empty, when after five months of waiting we finally open a debate about a report by the vehicular attorney. I am also saddened by the fact that in these benches down on behalf of the Government, at least the Vice-President or at least the Vice-President of the Government for the content and recommendations given in his report by the Advocate General. All honours to the secretary of state but the authority is the resolutions mentioned here and should have far more serious access to the executive authority at least once if not the prime minister then the Deputy Prime Minister hears what the Parliament thinks about the report. I am also saddened that the government did not accept but received this report and I heard the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club who said they would accept it. I never understood what it meant to take into account in the Parliament of Parliament a report by the attorney general chosen by us, passed the Law on the Ombudsman, gave him tasks, powers, appointed him to his authority and sent him to help citizens who were injured by rights. He came before us with his account, the report indicates where the biggest problems are, gives recommendations, but this year's initiatives are formalised and open debate on the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure and we want to take that into account. What are we getting at? That there is, that there is, or that there are citizens of this country who could not solve their problem differently, but that they had to address him by asking that someone help him. What are we getting at? Even if the Parliament does conclude that this report is received to the knowledge of me, I suggest to the Ombudsman next year that he write his report on three pages of paper. First, you find out that you and your assistants are alive, second, to work and third, that there are citizens of this country who have some problems. And such a report will then be taken into account, and as long as you point to terribly dangerous situations, I would like Parliament to accept the report with additional conclusions. For example, this time, we are given the ideal opportunity to accept my conclusion that, at least by the end of this calendar year, his official initiative to change the law if the Constitution needs to and extend its powers over the judiciary. To make a decision yes or no, but to open a debate at the plenary session and finally decide, because he is our authority officer with the task to point out and initiate what we need to change so that he can work more successfully. They gave the initiative, we made the move. I'm not going to talk about numbers, people, and they don't remember, I'm just going to find that the number of cases in the last year was 12% higher than in 2006, and that the areas are still ahead in the first place of the judiciary, the second is, although the number of cases, relative to the sixth and fifth ones, which is very good, because this terribly sensitive resort obviously occurred some shifts, apparently the responsible ones there understood and began to cooperate with the staff's attorney, so the right to rebuild, so the persons deprived of liberty, construction and housing, all the activities with more than a hundred items on the table of the Ombudsman. According to the content and problems of the non-reading of state institutions, it does not deliver answers and points to the content of the long-term process. New areas are also reported, which they call non-classical administrative bodies such as municipal and other public enterprises, institutions, banks, educational, health and social institutions. For the first time, this area also shows us that there are also problems where clearly state bureaucracy, i.e. bureaucratic procedure from the state bureaucracy, also comes from these activities. And we'll take that into account? Lack of communication needed between administrative authorities and citizens. Who's to blame? What are these mutated people working at the state administration not to be able to communicate with citizens? The European Court of Human Rights delivers judgments and determines the damages to the citizens of Croatia for the length of court proceedings. But for God's sakes, for four years, the attorney general pointed to that. Now that we are paying hundreds of thousands of euros in compensation to the European Court's rulings and now our judiciary and we do not yet ask ourselves how long we will have to budget to ensure that we pay compensation to our people because our judiciary is long-term. Often and rapidly changing the law, replaying other people's models under the pressure of Europeans without seeing the total of domestic legal system and legal culture. We often change the laws at fifth speed and warn us that the state administration is not trained enough to swallow that speed especially when we install into our legal system, we implant other people's models. And yet there are five concrete proposals from the attorney general. The first writes to us: “Give people for God’s sake in public administration, start applying and obeying the Law on General Administrative Procedure. ” We are told that as soon as possible after the request has been made, we need to carry out the procedure under the provisions of the same law in order for the more complete case to be reached for the final solution. They also point to the fact that the law on this procedure, the general procedure itself, is good, but that the state administration and public authorities do not exercise it. What's the problem? Where is the solution to the problem if not in the executive government? So it is about proposals that do not require a change of legislation, structure and magic words of responsibility. The inability and inability to describe in this report a more significant advance stems from the depravity of administrative functions in solving administrative matters. This sentence is a quote from the report. And we'll take that into account. Finally, on 20 June last year, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia gave a report and reminded us that they had abolished Article 40(2) of the Law in 1998, I will not say which, perhaps someone also remembers, expecting to amend the repealed provisions within 6 months. It is the direct interest of several thousand citizens who can and remain without apartments with a warning from the Croatian judiciary that the trial in these cases is almost impossible until the parliament changes the law or legally solves the hole that was created in that regulation. The Constitutional Court of this State in 1998. The 20.6th report by the same Constitutional Court, which concludes that only the Croatian Parliament can solve this problem. This is the subject of a report by the attorney general asking us, asking us: "Give the legal initiative a legal problem that has arisen by abolishing Article 40(2). The law" relating to the tenancy rights of those who live in the taken-off apartments. What else should the Constitutional Court and the Advocate General do in this House to make it a point of the agenda? The government said it would not propose the law because it does not accept this report but accepts it. There may be a volunteer who will write the law because the government will not be able to finally allow the Croatian judiciary to pass judgments, and free the public defender to warn him for years. If you're going to raise your hand to gain knowledge, remember two thousand 67 citizens, cases with probably three, four thousand citizens, people's fates are at stake, not a report by the attorney general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15249	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Nothing... Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She's gone. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and fellow MPs. Can we resolve a dilemma tonight, please, not for me, but for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia we represent in this Croatian Parliament. Does it make sense? Is there any reason to take to the knowledge of a report by the occupier who speaks of human rights violations in our society, in our country? Does it make sense to know that human rights violations happen constantly, constantly, persistently and at the same time to be a representative of these citizens in the legislative authority? Even that's not all. My colleagues and colleagues, the Constitution has the power to oversee, in other words, to control the work of the Croatian government. So the ministries, the administrations, and so on. It's not possible, it's not possible to gain knowledge and tell anyone anything. It is the obligation of this Parliament to accept it to do something about those who are responsible for this situation, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If the HDZ Club, which I heard in a speech from the Club's representative, will take the report to the knowledge, the most important position of the Government, or do not give God to the President of their party as commander of a battleship from the human rights situation in the Republic of Croatia, then this club really says we will not control and control the work of the Government, although it is our constitutional obligation. Although it's our constitutional obligation. And what does the report from the occupier's attorney general say? First, the attorney general makes it very clear that the report is not drawn up on the impression. It's not his impression. The report is drawn up on the basis of complaints from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia about how the state serves them, how they can exercise their rights. And he even says as a percentage somewhere more than 70% of these citizens are right to sue their country for treating them, and we say we'll take that into account. Unfortunately, this report does not show that human rights in Croatia are achieved more easily and better than in previous years. So there's no movement. We can't even do how that student asked the professor after ten times he came to the exam, so the professor tells him his colleague hasn't satisfied you yet. There's a bit of a shift, but you're not happy to pass, and he says give me a record of that little shift. The government cannot even record a slight shift in the protection of human rights according to a report by the attorney general. Of course, it should be said immediately that this is really not a complete analysis of the human rights exercise in the Republic of Croatia, because it is simply a matter of the negative side, because it is really poorer, socially endangered citizens that appear to the Ombudsman. The tycoon, tycoon, entrepreneur or so for the protection of his rights, was not an example of the tycoon, the tycoon, the tycoon, but rather ordinary citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Our indolence towards the government is not allowed to control it, and now some examples. For example, on the site of the Department for the Reconstruction of Family Houses, the Ombudsman says that in the second-degree procedure in 2007 there were 13945 items that were significantly more important than in 2006. And it's about the Family House Rehabilitation Authority. Is there really anyone who might think that he has a more significant human right than home, a restored house? Is that what allows our indifference? He also claims in his report, the requested information to the Croatian Assembly is repeated repeatedly in the reports. Such an attitude regarding this issue must be precise through the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament. A report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia must be sought in particular on this matter, or here is this quote. “In 2007, the trend of increasing the number of complaints against entities that do not fall within a narrow classical circle of administrative bodies has continued, and they have a significant impact on the life and rights of citizens.” We in Croatia really often pass laws that we are not even aware of what they will do and how they will produce the effects. We establish bodies, administrative organisations, administrative bodies, agencies, etc. without watching anyone or asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give us a report on how these bodies work and how they do their job. These are mostly those institutions that get public authority from us, so they often harass citizens, communals or others through various ways. We are also going over it and we say we will take it to the knowledge, and in a few days, as counterpart Cain said today, we will wonder that citizens do not respect parliamentary representatives and the Parliament as the Croatian institution the most representative body of citizens. We can't, not notice that we're not doing enough for those citizens just when we're being pointed out by the attorney general. I've got something that doesn't stand here, but I'm sure I'm walking on our pretty one. My colleagues and colleagues, in Croatia there are still a significant number of houses, households, even villages that this Croatia has not provided with a low voltage network. So she didn't bring the power. There is, there is that. Are we dealing with it? One of the tasks of the Croatian Parliament to monitor the smooth development of the Republic of Croatia, to ensure approximately the same living conditions for the citizens of this country. And now here it is confirmed that you know that there are villages and places that don't have a low-voltage network. Well, we can't go over it. That knowledge requires us to ask the government when it will be resolved. We're not a poor country so we can't handle it. There are other things like that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let's not take it personally. Let's form a working group, draw conclusions, let's not force the government within 5, 6 months to respond to certain items here that are repeated year by year, read and receive knowledge, make formal conclusions and wait for the next report. That's not progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15251	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15252	She had a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15253	And I'm sorry! Then the replica of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15254	Thank you very much. Well, several speakers before his colleagues, Lek, and he, in fact, expressed such a regret that the government proposed to the Parliament this conclusion not to be accepted, but to take note of a report by the occupier. However, it is not a problem what the government has proposed, but rather what kind of a problem Parliament will accept. I am going from ninety-two articles of the Constitution which says the Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament that protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings before the state administration and bodies that have public authority. The Ombudsman did not deliver the report to the government for acceptance, but to the Croatian Parliament. That is why I think it is necessary, with only the report being accepted, that Parliament should assign the Government as an executive body to remove the obstacles that arise from communication between the Ombudsman and the state institutions and to propose possible amendments to the law, all in line with the assessments and proposals made in this report. It is the right of the Croatian Parliament, and we should in fact formulate the conclusion, rather than follow the government's conclusion, because the government is not competent to accept a report by the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15255	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague with your attitude. I would also add that there is a need to strengthen the role of the attorney general in every way. The proposal has already gone before the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, to strengthen it humanly, materially and finally to be easily accessible to us and to the citizens. This where the Ombudsman is now working and acting is talking about this House's relationship to that institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15257	Thank you. And now we continue the debate, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15258	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Well, here's after a long debate over a report by the attorney general. I must admit that if I had just looked back at this debate, and had I not read the report, I would have felt that nothing was right in the Republic of Croatia anywhere in any institution. Namely, the report by the occupier's attorney is very detailed, and it shows that citizens still do not know enough about the occupier's institution in spite of the presence in the media, and that the vacancy counsel has been printed by 10 thousand additional fliers titled "What Can a Public Attorney Do for You". I think it's of paramount importance, and that flyer also referred to welfare centres, district offices of the state administration, etc. I am pleased to point out that the Ombudsman’s office printed a flyer in Braille’s letter in order to facilitate the information of the blind, and the flyer was also recorded in the sound version as a result of better informing blind people who do not know Braille’s letter. Furthermore, in order to establish normal communication with hearing and speech impaired persons, the office directed 4 counselors to sign language courses, which is also commendable. I will, here, take a very brief look at the area where the attorney general in his report is talking about the protection of persons with disabilities. In fact, it is evident that a public defender, along with his associates, participated in workshops, round tables, stands, and symposiums called by disabled persons, as well as from the reports and the problems faced by persons with disabilities, i.e. associations, as well as persons with disabilities, pointed out at these seminars, round tables, etc. I must admit that here in the report the Ombudsman touched all segments, including all segments of the life of persons with disabilities because, therefore, the very persons with disabilities and their associations probably touched those of all segments of life. I want to say that the fact is that when it comes to persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately all the problems are still not really solved and there is much more that people with disabilities are facing and a lot of problems they still face in a very difficult way. But, respected colleagues and colleagues, I must point out here that of all these problems that are listed here, most of them are successfully solved in the Republic of Croatia today. Here, let's not forget that just six, seven years ago, the longest 10 years of barrier prevention, about removing barriers in Croatia, did not even speak. I have to mention here today, here are our gold paralympics who won in Beijing three gold medals and one silver so that if they weren't allowed to get to their places where they could train from their gold medals, there would be nothing. I just want to say that both in the field of sport and in the area of independent life and in the area of all other segments, they are still to see great shifts. Of the project that the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the accessibility of cities, so "Accession Croatia" is called a project in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia, along with the cities, adapted the local community. I don't think I should speak specifically because this project has really been visited by all of Croatia and it is well known today, even though you come to Split and Makarska and any other city, it is still evident that people with disabilities move more easily throughout Croatia. The personal assistant project that 350 people pulled out of the house, so who lived in their apartments and their houses only ten years ago and didn't come out of them at all. The government of the Republic of Croatia has made it possible to secure money, that here still as a pilot project, and we hope by the end of this year that this will be translated into law, that 350 people can still live a man's life worth living. And I'm just going to mention here for a little while what the Attorney General mentioned. That associations and disabled people complained about the poor application of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. I can tell because I've worked in this area for many years, and it's not exactly true that this law does not apply. Of course, people with disabilities were likely to expect the adoption of this law to reduce unemployment in a very short period of time, which is certainly not possible, but the Professional Rehabilitation Fund sets out large funds. In this year from the state budget, €68 million for hiring people with disabilities, so to encourage the employment of people with disabilities. These are not small funds since there was no way of encouraging the employment of people with disabilities at all. And I could go on like that forever, if you touched every single segment of a person's life with disabilities. But in the end, I would like to say that I am particularly pleased that new employment in the Office of the Public Attorney, and here, as Mr. Public Advocate has said, we hope for the near resolution of the business space, will help with better and better quality work for the ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15259	Thank you. Honorable representative Branko Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this report shows that the number of complaints filed compared to 2006 is slightly increasing. 223 more received compared to the previous year. Citizens address the Ombudsman only when they encounter problems in procedures before administrative authorities. The annual report on the work on these complaints gives the impression that the state of administration and the degree of protection of human rights is very bad that it is only part of the real picture of the situation. Out of a total of 1878 new complaints from citizens in 2007, 372 refers to the conduct of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the former Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Development, the two administrations, the Agency for Expatriates, returnees and refugees and the Agency for the Reconstruction of Family Houses. Since the number of complaints on the work of the ministry has not been reduced over the years but only the structure of the complaints has changed, then there are often repeated irregularities in the work of these two administrations, the Ombudsman has repeatedly informed the former minister of these problems and suggested that he personally engage in solving the problems involved and that the issues of discussion at the joint meeting be discussed, but unfortunately without success. The minister's responsibility is to get to know the problems within his portfolio. The minister did not do anything in the direction of accumulated problems, nor showed interest in co-operation with the attorney general. Of all the ministries, this ministry is actually just two administrations in its composition, suffering the most serious criticism over labour irregularities. Problems in the work of the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development, so the former ministry, the Agency for Expatriates and the Agency for Reconstruction were the subject of analysis of both international organisations and bodies. The Republic of Croatia is already set to pay compensation to some citizens who have conducted long-term administrative procedures and administrative disputes. In view of the fact presented in earlier reports, that in the cases of reconstruction and housing it is mainly about the demands of citizens of Serbian nationality, the problem has an additional weight. The common and most serious problem in the work of these two administrations is the long-term nature of the proceedings, which is why most cases show justification for complaints and violations of human rights. The international community is closely monitoring the development and degree of respect for human rights in this area, which is reflected in several documents relating to the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia and regarding the accession process of the European Union. It is therefore possible to predict that the Republic of Croatia will be faced with serious objections which will be an obstacle to faster membership in the European Union. The long-term process conducted by the Office for Expatriates has been the reason for citizens to address the occupier for years. During 2007, 208 complaints were received. It should be borne in mind that prosecutors from rural areas are plagued by war, mostly by older age, uninformed, ignorant and poor assets, so they cannot generally address lawyers and learn about the role of the Ombudsman in the course of the proceedings for years. This administration is not qualified to overcome the task ahead of it. Over several years, the competent minister has repeatedly warned of this fact, but has not taken the necessary steps to address the problem. In 2007, 131 complaints were filed by persons deprived of liberty, representing a slight decline compared to 2006. As in previous years, the complaints in most cases refer to accommodation of inappropriate human dignity and health standards, health care, outdoor stay, employment, etc. The number of new cases in which the occupier has acted, which relate to the conduct of police officers in recent years, has increased. However, although it is relatively small in number of cases in relation to some other areas, the trend of growth as well as almost daily media inscriptions and cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, particularly with the Department of Internal Affairs, clearly points to the necessity of taking certain measures and activities in the achievement of conditions in which the unlawful conduct of police officers or overstepping of police powers will be reduced to the least possible extent. Transparency of the procedure and its effectiveness and accessibility to citizens, which will undoubtedly contribute to strengthening the confidence in police work, should be imperative to any state whose rule of law represents the highest value of the constitutional tax in connection with the above-mentioned problems, the Ombudsman also addressed recommendations on several occasions to the Ministry of the Interior. The violation of citizens' rights due to the long-term administrative resolution is also being warned through the annual work report for the fourth year. All reports also contained proposals for measures to change the situation. Most of these measures were possible within a relatively short period, relatively independent or parallel to other reforms and changes in administration. The necessity of these measures was also highlighted by the European Court of Human Rights rulings. The main message of the European Court's ruling is that the state is responsible for human rights violations if citizens cannot exercise their rights and legal interests within a reasonable period of time. The lack of urgency of courts and the long-term length of court proceedings, which is also suggested by a large number of complaints as well as statistics on the work of courts, remains the biggest problem for citizens. What is not inevitable and inadmissible for the rule of law state is also divided into poor and weak and rich and powerful in front of state bodies that decide on their rights and legal interests. The state must create conditions and regulate administration and judiciary in a way that will guarantee the real and effective equality of all before the law. The State must remove the causes resulting in or eligible for corruption and bias, and not objectivity or make it difficult to detect and sanction such phenomena. The Anti-Corruption Strategy requires continuous review and improvement of laws and other regulations, as well as appropriate policies. This report does not contain data on the number of complaints of members of national minorities. However, in some administrative areas, a number of complaints have been raised by members of the Serb minority in the total number of complaints. This primarily concerns issues of pension disability insurance rights, return of property, restoration of housing and status rights. Therefore, the programmes of the completion of the renewal process for the resolution of a large number of lagging second-degrees and housing procedures should be implemented by strictly respecting procedural regulations with an effective possibility of using the right to appeal and other forms of legal protection. Such treatment should be strengthened, and trust should be restored to the institutions of the state and to those citizens who have failed to meet the basic conditions for return and normal life for years. rights guaranteeing the laws of the Republic of Croatia and programmes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This report should be accepted and understood as another warning from the occupier that the state of administration and the degree of protection of human rights is at a very low level and that it is high time to follow the suggestions and recommendations of the ombudsman in order to start changing things for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15261	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15262	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm gonna cut my report short, but I'm gonna say those important lines tonight. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that this report on the work of the Ombudsman was made very fully where we have a series of data shown in numbers, tables, and descriptions and depictions of specific items. In 2007 this report was received and collected a thousand 878 written complaints. A thousand 354 have been solved, and there are 524 items left to solve, and I don't think that's too many, because let's face it, our whole lives are covered with objects. For example, when you take out your passport, your ID card, you change that ID card, you report the birth of a child, not that God reports the fact of death, all of these are administrative procedures, it's all management. And I would not agree that under those complaints we can assess the real state of things, as some colleagues used to say before me. For example, when we look at the complaint table, we see that in the pension number, more than half of the complaints have been reduced, but it will certainly help pensioners and appoint the Ombudsman for people with disabilities because a large number of pensioners are persons with disabilities. I would like to draw from this report on my territory the most important and for my neighborhood from which I come, which refers to the property that was seized during the communist Yugoslavia. It is seen from the report that for this area the number of newly received items is 39, and from earlier years there are 22 subjects. ... citizens of the Ombudsman are mainly concerned with the lengthening of proceedings, in front of first-degree and second-degree bodies, as well as the obstruction of the procedures for the return of seized property, and there has been an expression of the dissatisfaction of previous owners related to the obstructions of return and agricultural land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it should be pointed out that local units have a major impact on the return of agricultural land, since it is available as an example. in the town of Zagreb the area of agricultural land in the Cupinec Kraljec and Brezovicsko polje where it has long been the return process. In this problem, in order to speed up the return of agricultural land and return to the real owners of space, there is, of course, in the Ministry of Justice. at the Civil Law Administration. There are several cases listed in the report, but I am not going to convince them here, but I am glad that the full reform of the judiciary and the administration is being successfully implemented, and I hope and I am sure that this problem will be solved as well. It is important in the end to point out that in the 2007 state budget, the Ombudsman was provided for the work of the office of 5 million 807 thousand kuna and 6 million 976 thousand kuna was secured for 2008, and it is also possible for more employees to be employed this year, which I consider to be a concern for enlargement and the work of the Attorney's Office. And in the end, I'm getting a report from the attorney general for 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15263	Thank you. Dear Representative Marijan Jurjevic, as far as I can tell, is not here. He's losing his right to debate. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. I can see it's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15264	... Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Public Attorney, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. [[Speech is not enabled.]] [[- What's wrong with you? A microphone!]] Right away in, at the beginning of my debate, I will say that I cannot agree with the claim made in this report that citizens still do not know enough about the institution of the Ombudsman, because in this case I believe that part of the responsibility is, if that is the case, on the Ombudsman himself, and then on us who are, therefore, the Croatian Assembly, which is in accordance with the Constitution which the Croatian Assembly has appointed as the authority of attorney who protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens against the authorities of the state administration and bodies with public authority. This extensive report on 210 densely written, printed pages is written by a public defender, and I quote: "a slightly different methodology given in 6 parts". Although in his opening statement today, the Ombudsman said the methodology was standard. Never mind. I have no objections to the methodology, but in my debate, I would like to point out a few facts. The selectivity in the approach of the facts given in the report, which shows that what we want to know is what we know, and what else I don't want to point out that we know I don't know or keep quiet. For illustration, I quote the following examples. In the third part, which analyzed the legal areas under the title of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, the first sentence reads, just one of the colleagues quoted it earlier: "Out of the total of 878 new complaints from citizens in 2007, 372 refer to the conduct of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, in the parentheses of the former Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development of the Republic of Croatia, closed brackets," I conclude the quote. So I wonder why this approach when we know very well that the new ministry of which two administrations have entered, and it is about the administration of exiles, returnees and refugees and the refurbishment of family homes in which the attorney general determines the most complaints of citizens in respecting or violating their constitutional and legal rights. So this new ministry was founded in January 2008. In doing so, I do not dispute the right of the Ombudsman to present his experience in cooperation with the minister whose portfolio was listed two administrations in 2007. But in what, but for what, in the 2007 report on work, it remains unclear for me to re-evaluate and for future co-operation with the new minister of the new ministry in 2008. It's only because the staff's attorney was supposed to receive an assistant minister at the Ministry at the time who was being set up. And an illustration of the second case. The government of the Republic of Croatia presented this High House A plan for the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the European Union legislation for 2008 in February of this year. This report bears the date of March 31, 2008. Since the Ombudsman knew that in the preparation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which provides for and gives a new role to the Ombudsman in this report, I believe that the Ombudsman could also know, even knowing that in the preparation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the rationalisation of the network of courts and other laws on whose preparation for his own known reasons there is no word. The crossover of these facts is mainly in the part where the attorney general provides evaluations and proposals, opens up a space for the findings and qualifications of the state administration, which the Ombudsman has also said in his preliminary statement, and I will not repeat them. Most of them do not leave a trace of hope that the situation in respect of constitutional and legal rights can change and improve which I do not agree with and cannot agree with. And another little remark. When we talk about the financial part of the report, the report was kept only at planned sizes secured in the State budget for 2007 but not on both realised and spent. I welcome the co-operation that the Office of the Public Advocates has achieved with the OSCE mission in the Republic of Croatia on the project "Programme of providing institutional support for 2006 and 2007 to the Ombudsman" and a donation of 2006, 266 thousand 570 kuna, which, I quote: "enabled work on the ground i.e. visit and tour of the county." I wonder if there were funds for the counties, for the tours of the county and in the regular ones, because in the 2007 National Budget Bill proposal, which the Government delivered to this High House for discussion and adoption, I found that out of the planned 6 million 242 thousand 900 kuna in the 2007 budget, 5 million 534 thousand 666 kuna or 90.26% of the plan was spent. So I ask the question where did the difference arise and why? And to cut my exposure short. For all of these reasons, and by supporting the opinion of the Croatian Government, I am taking note of the report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15265	We have, uh, yes, thank you very much. We have one replica. Dear Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15266	Thank you very much. Here I am, unlike my colleague Bilić Vardić, not taking note of this report, but I support this report, and I am not the attorney of the gentleman's attorney, but I understood his report in a way not so that nothing can change in the work of the state administration, but quite the opposite. That it must change the way this state administration works. If you're a citizen, you send a request, if you don't get answers for years when it comes to the fundamental rights of our people; housing, rebuilding houses. You haven't heard from the Ministry for years, or they just say you don't have the right to do that. Or do you have the right to complain to anyone or the right to whom you thought you could achieve it? Then it tells me that the state administration is not doing its job properly. And that's how I understood the attorney general, and I support him in that way that this administration is changing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15267	Thank you. And the esteemed, replicated representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15268	I'd like to replicate to a colleague who said that a report by the occupier's attorney doesn't leave any hope that the state of the state can change. To me, this report, and what the Ombudsman wrote in his report, gives hope to the citizens that someone sees what is happening and that someone wants to help them, and the government's position to take note of this rather than to accept this hope in any case reduces. And our President Zoran Milanovic, if you remember at the 1st session in the final address, said, "As far as the government is concerned, we have no hope."
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15269	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Susana Vardić Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15270	I'm giving up, Mr. President. Vice President. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15271	Then let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And then it's the honourable representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15272	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General and Deputy Vice President. Today, there is much talk about this subject in this assembly, and some have also used the subject to say some other words that I want to look back on at the end of my presentation. First, the report by the Ombudsman is the subject of this debate correctly, accurately showing problems, possible solutions and proposals that should be considered in any case, and in the largest number and accepted. However, it is not a problem and there is no need to concentrate on the problem. This can lift your hand with your eyes closed and we've solved the problem. The problem is that the Ombudsman's institute in Croatia has devalued. Therefore, the Institute of Authors of the Croatian Assembly of the Greatest or Greatest Legislative Body in Croatia has been reduced to a sacred water function, i.e. it is not at the level of today's time and size of the problem in the Croatian society that needs to be solved, i.e. the authority to be precise with the Ombudsman is not at the level of time and problems to be solved. If you take a look at the charts, you will see that we have a public defender for Zagreb, for Zagreb. See how many of the complaints we have from Zagreb, and how many from other parts of Croatia. Secondly, it's not true that there were 258 complaints from retirement. This year, 456 cases were solved, i.e. in 2007 and 456 cases were solved from the pension problem, since 198 cases were solved from last year that were not solved. So we can play with numbers. However, the fact is that it is always the pension problems have almost a quarter of the total problems solved by the public defender. However, I find it very indicative that there is, that all of this is described in a total of 5 pages in this Report. I'll say again that the report is professional, correct and accurate. I'm not gonna say it, but it's indicative that there are only five pages in this report. Someone says the amount doesn't even mean the quality, but you know if you have so many items, maybe a few more cases could have been described as intervention by the attorney general. You know, if we accept the fact that there are fewer cases in the pension system, it doesn't mean that our system works better in 2007 than in 2006. That could mean the other way around. This could mean that there was a lack of citizens' trust in the system institutions precisely because of what I said at the beginning. Because of the objective assessment that the powers of the attorney general at this point are too small in relation to the problems that we have in Croatia. You used to know yourself there until the 1980s if there were a large number of objects and even unsolved ones. If you remember that self-government defender, it was interpreted as an increase in the level of democracy because people are talking to an institution that is close to the citizens and that is people's trust in the system. Now, I know that we are now in a time when we have a market economy, we have democracy. But why wouldn't that rule apply here? Why do we only interpret the number of objects by the number of problems? Why do we also interpret the number of cases on the citizens' trust in the institution? So, as long as we don't get it together, until we shed light on this relationship, I am allowing myself the right to, and on behalf of the Croatian party of pensioners, say that there is a loss of trust for the citizens of Croatia not only in the institution of the Ombudsman, but in many institutions in Croatia. You know, I'm very, very sorry, I'd like the government to meet what it drew in the Action Plan against Corruption, which is that a better, stronger, better quality role for the vehicular defender, who is our authority, author of the Croatian Parliament, and who should have more influence on all social events, i.e. the functioning of the system. I am very sad that today you and your Croatian public spoke to both colleague Cain and colleague Pupovac who attacked not this topic, but attacked the Proposed Law on the Ombudsman for pensioners and elderly people who were not the subject of today's debate and were not united debate. But I have to propose this second law that will come to these benches to intervene and tell. Is a colleague of Cain looking for what he used to say to the defenders for the Istrians before the pensioners, and the pensioners have those who are existentially endangered in Croatia about a million people. So where is the system of values and where is the weight of the problem? So, it might. I'm Istrian, but I don't think we need a lawyer, but it could, but it can't be a lawyer for retired people who are almost and older people who are more than a quarter of Croatian citizens. You know, maybe someone else would like an attorney general, excuse me, a vehicular attorney or a lawyer for a certain national community before all the pensioners. I think that such a thing is not proposed by the Croatian party of pensioners and the Croatian Social and Liberal Party. We will discuss this when we discuss it, but it has proposed in office while the ombudsman does not have the authority, the greater powers it needs in this time. We are going to propose specialised lawyers because this is not a violation of existing legal practice. We don't make, or our bill doesn't make a legal precedent. Why? Well, because we already have specialised lawyers for gender equality, for children's rights, we have persons with disabilities. Thus, the precedent has already been done independently of what our Constitution knows only the occupier, or the authority of the Croatian Assembly of our Ombudsman. Therefore, it is our legitimate right as political parties that, even through the proposal of a law that may not sit in everyone's ear, we initiate changes so that indeed changes can take place in the Ombudsman's institute. For example, why tomorrow in the reformed system wouldn't one of the deputy occupiers be specialized, or be in charge of pension issues if it were such a problem, which is. This is a growing problem because this population in Croatia, too, is growing. Here, I would no longer be burdening you in that section with my observations, but I say once again in the end, surely for this report of the occupier I want to vote in person, I think that the colleagues in HSLS will do so because of his concrete proposals and constructive characteristics regarding today's problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15273	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15274	Thank you very much, Vice President. From your debate, I was able to read that you will agree with the report on the work of the Ombudsman and I believe that you will agree so much with all the three conclusions that the SDP Club has made in the procedure, and the second is that it is responsible for the Government to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the actions taken in the bodies of the state administration in order to change this because it is a common interest and to increase the powers of the Public Ombudsman to amend and supplement. I think it's something we shouldn't politicize because those who turned to the occupier for help, and they stood first in the defense of the Homeland and didn't wait for a minute, and now 10 years after the Homeland War, another 5, 6 or 7 years are solving disputes, that we can't just take notice of that, that we have to solve it. I think that those who deserve to get a roof over their heads, means those who have problems with it, who have come to help the attorney general, too, so we can't just take it out of our heads, but we have to come to terms with it as a fact and we have to work it out. I think that those who have complained about inefficient justice or have complained about the ineffectiveness of certain bodies of the state administration also deserve certain changes in this direction and I don't think we can just put it to the knowledge, but we must accept it as a fact and we must jointly resolve it and so much is the duty of all of our representatives here in the Croatian Parliament and greater that these things change because I don't agree to the argument that this report is understood as an attack or as a criticism of the authorities, but it is precisely something that gives light and hope that certain things can and must be changed so much, and I also ask HDZ representatives to participate in these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15275	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15276	Dear colleague, if you have, and have listened well to what I have said, we will probably agree that I have limited myself by saying, which is why I will accept the report of the attorney general, and I also think that I have said enough arguments, which is why the Institute of the Attorney General has devalued us in relation to the times and problems we are in, which we need to solve. Therefore, look, there is no doubt, at the end of what you have proposed by the SDP club, but also the HNS club is also part of the proposal that the Ombudsman proposed to this Croatian Parliament and I have looked at these conclusions and there is definitely no reason why these conclusions are not adopted as they are. I'm not saying at all how the government is going to react to them, whether it's too short or too long, but the fact is that I'm speaking this discussion on my own personal behalf, that I'm going to support those proposals, and how it's going to turn out in the vote, I don't know, but I can speak for myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15277	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Bruno Kurelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15278	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. Time's up. I'm a novice agent, and it's good that in his opening statement, the Ombudsman explained his role. Well, that helped me understand the contents of his report more easily. And what can I read from that content? The state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia for 2007 is an operational way of resolving violations of the rights and proposals of this particular occupier in order to address human rights violations as effectively as possible. But what concerns me from this content is the common inadequacy of citizens in the quest for their rights. The power of power and its frequent haughtiness towards these same citizens, the clogged judiciary and the frequent impotence of your institution, Mr. Attorney General, to try to implement human rights control mechanisms through further efforts. Of course, as part of your possible action. What are the basic indications of the government's relations and of the state bodies and bodies with public authority towards the institution of the attorney general so that it can be read from your report. First, you are ignored, page 11, by the former Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development of the Republic of Croatia and its minister. Secondly, your enquiries don't suit you or do it in order. A number of examples of this finding are in this report. And thirdly, they are failing to adopt your recommendations for the necessary changes to regulations that would improve the negative situation in society. When all of this is added, I now go to my observation, when all of this adds to the effects of the dynamics of the work of the judiciary, the dance in which such a judiciary too often tramples the feet of the citizen, the objects go into oblivion or we start new and new games. Our European friends have understood this practice, and they even make recommendations to our citizens that they can address European institutions and directly if the processes take too long, which makes an exception, you know that. And how to assess the achievements of the Croatian legal order of the Ministry of Justice and of all its factors that allow this game in which the loser almost always knew ahead. What lessons can we all draw from this report? With respect to some realities, we cannot conclude that the existing laws are completely bad, but the law cannot standardize everything. Life often offers many surprises, but within the judiciary there must be a higher level of implementing culture, professional morality and responsibility. Because otherwise, if the operational efficiency of the third degree of government is impaired, it is difficult to expect the representative authority to function, and then the executive power can obviously do what it wants. What remains in this situation for an ordinary man to talk about today? It's just a headache. Years of life spent walking from door to door in search of help, seeking their rights, and all ultimately result in heavy personal dramas and human tragedies. How to explain to the unfortunate person in seeking his rights that there is no conspiracy, against his interests and rights when, on a daily basis, and in this report, he encounters a lack of conscience within the judiciary, but also the ignoring of the authorities and its implementing links to himself. And so you, Mr. Attorney General, along with all of those of us, and the Assembly MPs who are sitting here at least now, who so often use a winged wing is the purpose of our service to the citizens, we have to answer the following question. What progress has been made in the concrete protection of human rights in the 2007 report in relation to the 2006 report. Because if he's statistically significant, we're entering the stage of an orderly society. If that's not the case, then we're still an unsettled society. It's something to say to the public once that she knows what she can hope for. Truth can cause trouble, but none of us have the right to give it up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15279	Thank you. And now it's the honorary representative of Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15280	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. Given the time and the fact that, before me, several of these important moments have already been highlighted by the participants in the debate, which I have noted to myself, I do not want to repeat anymore. However, by reading this report, I must say that it seems to me to be thorough enough, and I would say bravely, because certain findings have been made which is good and precisely thanks to the publication, i.e. specifically on these examples shown these problems I expect will contribute to solving in the next maybe a year or two of these really cases that could be interpreted as not tragic even, I would say can be comical. Let's just say two or three examples I've written. It says there is a busy space, or object somewhere down at sea, but the answer is impossible to solve for the owner to get it back because it is some serious people from Zagreb. That's what it says. Then says the auxiliary facility instead of falling apart by solving the building inspector, after a few years there pops up buildings, locks, etc. A license is issued for the pharmacy, although the person who doesn't have the right papers can't because eight hours later I don't know she filed that request and stuff like that. It's just a really comic situation like this and this finding that I can hardly even imagine that in Karlovac I don't know, 13 inmates are 25 square meters away. I don't know how those people live then, but it also says in this report. Just two or three more moments to point out. First of all, I would like to establish here by the basis of the data presented in this report that it is also proven that certain local communities, municipalities, so to speak, in rural areas are not at all up to date, or are not organised as objectively, which, for subjective reasons, do their function. Namely, the local community did not bring basic documents for the public, for example, because they did not quality-solve such as the problem of land management. We still have a big problem for municipalities who have not even brought in the program, then spatial planning documents from the spatial plan to detailed plans and, of course, in everyday life makes huge problems for citizens and determining a certain level of various municipal givings and it is incomprehensible. Everything regulated by the Constitution, by law that certain environments simply don't do according to the law. There are various problems that arise from these situations. Let's just say it's unimaginable that someone can't get their land, real estate back for the simple reason it was leased. Well, that's amazing. It is known if it is agreed, when the fruits of that year are removed, the lease contract is terminated and the man gets back. We've solved hundreds of cases like that by now. They brought back over 500 acres of land. I mean, I can't just realize that it can happen. Here's just for a little while. And two more things I would like to say to Mr. Vice President and ask, and there are few of us here, and representatives from Osijek, Split and Rijeka if not for every county, but at least for these regional centres, I think we should seriously consider and organise this service to be in these regional centres too. I think that would be perfectly normal and logical because there are a number of people involved here, three deputies, 14 advisors, and now it's estimated that I need additionally not know how much official I really appeal to the opening of this one in regional centres, to organize the work of the attorney general. And Mr. Vice President, just this half minute, let me say that I wanted to say that finding, there's no light yet. Namely, I had the opportunity last week to be a guest in the Hungarian Parliament where they were all colleagues, so members of parliaments of neighbouring countries in Hungary, means Slovakia, Ukraine, Romania, Vojvodina, or Serbia, etc. I used those two days to ask my colleagues about the situation of Parliament's functioning in their role, etc. Of the most banal and trivial things like now it has become parking with us, and beyond about their position, etc. that I don't bother you and I have to say, I've been able to come up with very interesting data about how they, or how these parliaments work, and I really have to say that we should be critical, but there are often these tones that remind me of that saying that I once said here that we get into the woods very often and we don't see that forest from the beautiful trees, that's my finding, is it, and here it was in the debate of such tones quite a bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15281	Thank you. And now it is the honourable representative Biserka Vranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15282	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must say, it was extremely interesting to read the report of the Public Attorney for 2007 because it's actually a picture of our society as a whole, and you can see what institutions, ministries and institutions are doing right and not. I must point out that I have come from local self-government, and for a long time the Law on the right to access information has been in force, and if we follow the laws on access to information, we must say that a large part of these irregularities, irregularities and dissatisfaction of citizens would not be mentioned here at all. Indeed, all of us who do public work are obliged to the parties in the process and those who in any way exercise any right in any institution, whether at local, regional or national level or at the state level, are obliged to provide them with all the information that we have, as regards their case or their information, are required to exercise any right in a court or in some other institutions. In 2007, a thousand 878 written complaints were received and I must say that I believe that it is a relatively small number because a large number of our citizens still do not know and do not know enough the institution of the attorney general and is certainly better informed and that they know what it is doing to make that number of complaints written far greater. This is also a report that should be equally significant to both the position and the opposition, because it is in the interest of all of us that the state is working and this proves that it is not enough to have a state, that it is important that this state has a system that works and that it speaks about what state we are, how much responsibility we are as representatives and as holders of public functions and duties. I was particularly surprised at your findings regarding the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, because this ministry is also known for its very high quality projects and programmes, and I must say that their administrations of exiles and restoration administrations have a little bit surprised me with their haughtiness and literally by the lack of understanding of the situation in which the administration of these restoration and development administrations address themselves. In fact, most people are in the field of special state care, and they are not talking because they have nothing to do or they want some big rights or some good profit, but they are talking to them for the reason that the basic problem is the roof over their head, the workplace and the way out of this situation that they have been in thanks to the war and the other life problems that have affected them. That's why I think both the Prime Minister and the Minister would have to make an extraordinary effort to really show this administration more hearing about citizens and to do the job for which it was paid, and to inform them, and to help them realise their rights. Especially when it refers to rights that are fundamental to human life. What I think is disappointing for Croatia is the fact that a growing number of citizens are addressing the International Court of Human Rights and that they are very interesting there and accomplishing a lot of good results, and I have to quote your one sentence that perfectly describes the situation in our country, and it says that, in addition to serious irregularities in the work of the administration, the difficult situation in the field of administration, contributes to bad regulations, their frequent changes, the lengthy and unequal treatment of regular courts and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. So that all together would have a very clear and serious task, and to learn that we in state institutions must function transparently and be at the service of citizens. Something really bothers me, which actually proves to me that the improvements won't be for 2008 either, because if the report is written 01. 04. In 2008, and we've been discussing the 2007 report, we've lost a lot of time in which we could even fix things and bring some order, and the 2008 report on the work of the occupier might be more concrete, there might be less problems, and maybe it would indicate that we are moving forward in this country on this issue. Unfortunately, it is now the ninth month, and I think that no one has considered this issue honestly and openly during the summer and during the fourth, fifth, sixth month for a similar and important one, but I sincerely hope that this issue will be addressed by the National Committee and also by the main coordinator for monitoring the activities related to the EU's negotiations, because all these problems that are listed here are indeed one picture of Croatia left to the European Union, and our goal is to join the Union as soon as possible and is listed on page 12, that the European Union is closely monitoring how human rights are achieved and realised in our country. So we all have work to do, and it is our job for all of us to make a certain order in this segment so that our picture and our country will be much more quality and positive in the future European environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15283	Thank you. And the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15284	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. ... Thanks again. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] This material that we got a few months ago and then at least I as an agent was at least three times less representative than I am now. So I was three months old, now I'm nine, so now I'm more experienced. So when I first read it, then I thought it was actually what it says is that it's some kind of Feral issue from the 1990s. Then I read it one more time, and I saw it wasn't. That's when, uh, when I was artistically expressing myself, I felt like a tragedy for having to read it. Then the weather was a little off. Things went down so I felt more like drama. And then this came, this government's view of not accepting this year, but taking note then it became a tragedy with signs of farce. Well, a good horror can be possible if it's like this for 2008. [[Intruder: Horor.]] But they won't, come on. The occupier spotted the hotspots, in that medical dictionary. So I'm going to single out 3: the judiciary, but that's not new to us. Then the rebuilding and exile management at the ministry, then it was the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Although Okay, so what? [[I restore it, right?]] I think Mr. Pupovac once said that and I liked the Ministry of the Sea, the sun, the sky, the earth. And after this, I would add hell to him, freely, for some citizens. Otherwise, some other administrations that work there will be commended tomorrow, but we'll talk about it tomorrow. Now, let's go talk about the veggie attorney. Your mistake, Mr. Attorney General, is the only thing that keeps you as a drunk float, as once upon a time a historical figure from this space has come out. And that's why they told you to take notice or that, so I'm a little younger but I can read between the lines even though that sentence fits in one row, they're mad at you for writing this. I think they're angry, I think. Even though the debates are so tactful, they're so calm. But you know what. If they have courage or, I don't know what else to call it, maybe haughtiness is and perhaps not saying that the president of the state will suffer another year and his advisors. Then what can one official say to an ordinary citizen? And he doesn't have to put up with it at all. He's here, he's gone. And there it comes up on this, and in this report, then we discuss it like this at eight o'clock a.m., and then we get to know it, and next year we'll probably discuss it one more time. What is also interesting is another divide or conflict in the ruling coalition. So one part of the ruling coalition would take note of that. The other part would have accepted. But it seems to me that in that ruling coalition, it always seems to be the way one of the biggest, biggest parties wants. So as for the example of ZERP, then one, one coalition partner to whom it was the main pre-election asset, we remember, is outvoted but OK accept. Then the question comes, I don't know, Retired Santa, so it's either this Swiss Well, Mr. Pupovac. [[/Intruder: Your Honor, that doesn't say it anywhere in there. So stick to the subject.]] May I have your permission, Mr. Vice President, to apologize... [[Agreement: The coalition agreement is not a topic but a topic]] /............ [[You don't understand.]] The opinion that Mr. Pupovac said he would accept and the HDZ gentlemen would take note [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is he all right? [[It's all right, leave yourself alone.]] Okay. [[Intruder: Continue with theme please.]] So, the subject is a report by the attorney general. Oh, well, I'm not worried about the coalition. This is gonna go through again, I think. As you wish. And OK. It will be, it will be noted. But okay, never mind. We will also note that it will be noted. So what Mr. Shoya said that we don't see any of the trees, we don't see. I see of these trees a jungle in the state administration as regards this treatment of citizens, a particular group or certain groups of citizens. I in that jungle, there are some beasts on which it's obviously hunting. And that's why we take it into consideration and we don't accept it. And when that hunt ends, so to speak, I don't insult anyone, so this is one, one metaphor. Then it's not going to be a horror anymore. It's going to be one of these adventures, like that. More people will be a little harder to exercise their rights but not in horror but in adventure. All right, come on, okay. Therefore, there is a better version. So there's a version that you're just showing ignorance of how to solve it, and there's a worse version, and that's that, by not supporting those who live on behalf of the state on behalf of the citizens, by not supporting them. I hope the 2008 report does not have elements of horror, farce or other, other film genres. But before that, perhaps even in the final address, Mr. Police Attorney can say if there is anything better in 2008 at least? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15285	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15286	My dear colleague said that I said in my speech that I would support, take this report into consideration. ... Yeah, that's what you said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I believe it's a lapus. But I'll do it again. I said, "I will receive the report." I will repeat it anyway. I've seen your conclusions and at the same time, I haven't seen the conclusions of the HDZ Representatives Club and I haven't seen it quite freely. And the question of what will be the result is the question that you have to worry about and that is your presence in the vote in the Croatian Parliament, is it? Because the numbers are inexorable. Most decisions are made and these are the laws of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15287	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP Club, five minutes' worth of the Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Regiment's Attorney General with a colleague, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here after this debate we must say that, of course, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will accept the report on the work of the occupier for 2007 but in some ways we are a little disappointed. We expected after the debate that this Parliament would show more initiative. That they might also try to help the occupier, perhaps by forming some working group, bodies that will see if something changes next year? Does the state administration, with enough attention, sort of transport our citizens? I don't think this is the story of just one report and we're moving on as you say. This is about 1878 people, and even more said by the Attorney General because some are complaints on behalf of more people. This is about 1878 families. That's tens of thousands of people covered by this report. Most or 2/3 of these complaints have been established. So these people are in harm's way. They need help. This House, as a body that it has put to the end of the Ombudsman's staff, must show the initiative to help its citizens. And that's why I think, and in some ways, we're saddened by this HDZ conclusion that it's being noted. It's as if you've sent a message to those citizens who have complained that the state administration is not referring to them the way they deserve it. Don't complain anymore, there's no problem anymore, you won't achieve anything. It doesn't matter! And on the other hand, you've sent a message to those people who don't do their job for whom they're paid, do whatever you want. If someone sends you a memo, don't answer it for two years. Nothing's going to happen, we'll take notice. Let's move on! Gentlemen so with Croatian, ladies and gentlemen, this is no way to treat Croatian citizens. We are chosen here to represent Croatian citizens and we are responsible to see what will happen to all these problems next year. Whether there'll be more or less. I feel that responsibility, and I don't know if you feel it. I don't appreciate it when a lady asks an example in the report to provide her with a housing issue. It's out of the area where it gets the right, because it has 9 squares in some co-ownership these are bureaucratic rejections. They don't want to see the width of the problem. I feel for these people and they need help and we are dissatisfied that this conclusion comes from the HDZ Club of Representatives, and we will ask all MPs to support the conclusion proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP, which is that the adoption of such a report is required by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit within 60 days a report on the actions undertaken by the Croatian Parliament. Not only have they read and accepted, but they have done something in the bodies of the State Administration to correct irregularities that have been warned by the Advocate General and is tasked by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare and deliver within 60 days to the Croatian Assembly of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman, in accordance with the proposal and initiative of the Ombudsman, contained in the Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2007. This is what we are obliged to do to these tens of thousands of people who last year were unfairly neglected by a state apparatus, and that's why I wouldn't be here with a laugh talking about whether anyone accepts knowledge, doesn't accept knowledge, because this is about people, and people aren't just a report. People exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15289	Thank you. And does the representative want to? Yeah. Dear Jurica Malcic, Attorney General. Final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15290	It's already too late. I'm really gonna be short. I have mentioned something in the introduction the situation, i.e. a comparatively this institution exists throughout Europe in the good part of the world, etc. I know the likes of other such institutions in other countries. I assure you that their reports are just as critical, even in democratic countries as our own. I thus warn you that there are far more complaints in these countries than there are in Croatia. So, you don't just have to go from the number of complaints. That's not the standard. It's also about the recognizability of the institution, it's about a lot, a lot of other elements. However, what I want to say is that it is also not necessary to view such a report as an assessment of the overall state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. We are primarily in the report obliged to follow the law. By law, we must inform the Parliament of the phenomena in which human rights are being violated so that some control measures can be taken and that is why I would like to say it should not be seen by the Attorney General's Report, no matter how critical it is as a criticism of the authorities. We're helping the authorities. We help ministers. What are we helping them with? We help them to warn of phenomena in their services and resources that lead to violations of citizens' rights. I'd say now. We have worked very hard in this report to warn about which cases are likely to even come to court and to the European Court of Justice, and we have also taken great care of what might be an obstacle to Croatia for a European one. So we help ministers and management heads. Most people understand that, and you can see it from our report. We have very good relations and cooperation with the Pension Insurance Office. We have all the obviouss on a regular basis from the Ministry of Defense, but the police often give us quite formalistic, unfortunately. The Ministry of Justice in the Justice Department, etc. So where we have such cooperation, I believe that the results are achieved, and what we owe again by law, so we have article 7. A law on the occupier, which says that if the body is not shown, that is, the minister of the occupier and if they do not follow recommendations, the ombudsman will not, but will inform the Assembly. So, it's not that, I'm not disposing of my powers by my own will. Those are my legal obligations. So, I mean, you shouldn't take it as a criticism of the authorities, because it's always by the nature of things criticizing those authorities that are now in position. And that's normal. What we direct the authorities, which is some proposals, recommendations, legislative initiatives, etc. And we'd be happier if they got rid of each other faster. A lot of them get rid of each other too slowly, and that's all I thought was supposed to say about it. Well, maybe that's what I should have said at first, but I've said it a few times already. So this report by nature of things is and must be critical. There is no boasting, nor is there any entry into those phenomena that are good, which go well, because it is not the task of a mere lawyer. And in the end, I would just say about the other police attorneys eventually, or not the police, because that's just an expression for the constitutional institution. The issue of the establishment of the Attorney General is the question of rationality, costs, etc. I'm against it. I think it's irrational and expensive. But on the other hand, there is another danger, which is legal, constitutional. The law does not allow the establishment of the attorney general and thus restricts the constitutional role of the Advocate General. Therefore, they cannot be given certain powers to which they would be taken away from the attorney general because it is a legal basis. Therefore, this should also be taken into account. And thirdly, I would say we are under constant control, pasture and in consultations with European bodies always at their request. All experts, before the OSCE, are now European Commissions making reports, etc. They're coming to the attorney general. It is also important for them to believe that we point to phenomena, that we are an institution that is independent in its criticism, etc. This is more important for Croatia's assessment in the chapter of the fundamental human rights to have such an institution than that such an institution is not independent and critical. I ask the Parliament to support the institution in that sense. And as for the issues of acceptance or acceptance of knowledge, that shouldn't be a question for me. Unfortunately, such a question can lead to simply one question, is it because of the criticism of the authorities? There will be such issues in public. I was trying to say that I don't think that's it. It is a criticism of individual services, individual ministers and individual ones, and that is the role of the attorney general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15291	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15292	Thank you. I'd like to correct the allegations that I find incorrect, which Mr. Attorney General has told me that he is helping the ministers. I think the exact assumption would be that he is trying to help the ministers, and that for many years the ministers have not accepted that assistance, and given how many things are repeated, I doubt whether or not some can be helped in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15293	Thank you. And we have a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15294	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, so here I am going to have one or two incorrect allegations from the gentleman of the staff's attorney where he said he wasn't targeted at some ministers. This report shows that Mr. Cobankovic, whom he was not supposed to be in this year because he was not the holder of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Construction, was mentioned in this 2008 for 2007. He took office in January 2008. That's one thing. And the other thing is when it comes to the salaries of civil servants in the state administration, then it should have been complemented through that period of years behind the pay that at one point their salary was reduced by 5%, and that in 2005, I think they were given back that 5%, and they were still going... It's been missed, and I think it should be put in this report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15295	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And that's how we finish our work tonight and I announce that tomorrow morning we continue with the 7th item of the agenda, the report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2007. Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. At 9:30. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15296	Sixth, report on the work of the Public Attorney for 2007 ......... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that, in addition to this item of the agenda, different conclusions of SDP clubs have been proposed, a brief break so that... and arrange to vote on these conclusions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15298	Thank you very much. ... 10 minute break. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] I'm setting a 10-minute recess and please continue the session at 14 hours and 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15300	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Following the debate on the Report of the Advocate General, the SDP's Club of Representatives proposed conclusions. First, to accept the 2007 report on the work of the Ombudsman. Secondly, it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit within 60 days to the Croatian Assembly a report on the actions taken by the authorities of the State Administration for the correction of irregularities warned by the Ombudsman. Thirdly, it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare and deliver within 60 days to the Croatian Assembly of the Amendments and Supplements Act to the Ombudsman in accordance with the proposal and initiative of the Advocate General contained in the Report on the work of the Ombudsman. With astonishment and infidelity, the SDP Club welcomed the government's clear statement of a report by the Ombudsman in which the government proposes that this report be taken into account by the Ombudsman. With equal astonishment, we also welcomed the proposal of the HDZ Club's conclusion, which reiterates the government's suggestion that a report by the Ombudsman's staff is yet to be taken into account. The first thing that means is an expression of knowledge. It means, first of all, not to accept, because if something is accepted, then that's what it says. To take note, in fact, is to show a lack of confidence in the work of a public defender or at least a lack of confidence. The SDP club also expresses a surprise and we believe that this is incompatible with the foundations, with the fundamental democratic principles that the government is manifested on the opinion of the Parliament's commissioners. The Attorney General is the Commissioner of the Parliament, he is our Commissioner, all of us regardless of which party we come from, and his task is to protect citizens from self-government, from chic state bodies. So, both from the government and from the ministries. And now those he's actually controlling, whose work is controlled, they're suggesting a conclusion on his report. The conclusion on this cannot either propose or form an executive power, but only this body, this Parliament, this Assembly of which is the Advocate General. Third, we draw attention to all the MPs that all the committees in this House have supported the report of the Attorney General. Only the government and the HDZ club ask that the report not be accepted, but kept in mind. Therefore, the question is raised here whether the MPs will appreciate what the committees have concluded, so that they have concluded themselves on these committees or perhaps the next logic of the coalition's non-responsibility will contribute to the position of the executive and HDZ club. This isn't just a formal question. This is essential, this is a content question. This is a matter of relationship to the Ombudsman. If the HDZ finds that the occupier is not doing a good job, there are instruments to say so. But not to accept this report, but only to take it into consideration means in some way to demean both the vehicular attorney and his work. This ignores the work of the mere Ombudsman of the defeating finding in his report that the state institutions, meaning both the government and the ministries, are violating part of human rights and doing nothing about it. Note that at the same time, beware that the Ombudsman is proposing some of the measures to be taken. If we do not accept this report, it means to automatically give up the measures he proposes, because this Parliament did not accept his report together with its proposed measures. Because of this, this is an important national issue because of the importance of the situation. This can't be just a party question. We call for seriousness in this vote and invite all MPs to accept the SDP's proposed conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-09-18-0.u15301	Thank you very much. Because of the possible controversy about this agenda point where it is likely that this report of the club, which is why I am asking for a break, would not question these other points of the agenda to go back to this point and to discuss this, this proposal of yours, and now to conclude the conclusions around the island and the cereals and the selection and appointments and that the final point of today's debate, or adoption, is what Mr Stazic has just presented here. Well, we're gonna skip right now. We're going back to the report on the work of the Police Attorney for 2007. We heard the explanation of SDP's vice president, Mr. Nenad Stazic. A little explanation as to whether the Government can give its opinion? He can talk about any act that goes before the Parliament. Of course, these are not conclusions but opinions both, and when they are not the proponent, this is not the issue, but, of course, the Parliament decides by voting after the debate is discussed and so on. We had a discussion. I am now opening a brief discussion on this proposal presented by Nenad Stazic in the clubs. Any other opinions? Any new suggestions? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. I am voting in favour of the conclusion proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club, which is in line with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: The report on the work of the Polish Ombudsman for 2007. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? This conclusion on receiving the report was accepted by the majority of votes, 70 votes in favour, no abstentions and 33 votes against. Please state that the adoption of this conclusion has become without substance a vote on proposals for the conclusion of the parliamentary working bodies as well as the proposal under regular number 1, the SDP Representatives Club. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has proposed the following conclusion: Opinions, objections and proposals to be presented in the report as observations, proposals and recommendations by the Advocate General in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent state authorities with public authority more effective. The Human Rights Committee proposes this conclusion. Please, let's get on board and vote on it. How about a score? The proposal by the Human Rights Committee was accepted by most votes, 94 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 2 against. So now we will vote on the second and third conclusion of the SDP proposal. The second conclusion is: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with submitting within 60 days a report to the Croatian Parliament on the actions taken by the authorities of the State Administration on the correction of irregularities warned by the Ombudsman. Let's please get involved and vote on this SDP proposal. The result? This proposal was not accepted because it was voted by 35, no abstentions, 67 against. We're going to the third conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare and deliver within 60 days to the Croatian Assembly of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman in accordance with the proposal and initiative of the Advocate General contained in the Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2007. Is it possible for this deadline to be longer, because there's no reason to say not to accept it, but it seems to me that the short term is as short as I can, here. What? ... What do you say? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's been here 60 days. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My opinion is that it is a short term, but there is no reason not to accept this proposal because why not propose to improve the law. What? ... By the end of this year. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Whether the proposals are agreed to be prepared and delivered within 60 days, etc. Put it up by the end of 2008? Do you agree? I hereby put the amended proposal to the vote. Who's to be included, or vote, and let's vote. The result? This conclusion by the SDP's Representatives Club was accepted by 95 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 3 against. The HNS representative club has proposed to the Assembly the following conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to propose to the Assembly by the end of 2009... Well, that's what we adopted. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What about the ninth? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we're not voting without purpose because this was adopted before. Thank you very much. We'll continue the session on Wednesday when you'll get a clean agenda and start at 9.30 p.m. During that time, I wish you all a pleasant holiday for the weekend. Thank you very much. I'm closing the session.
