ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4147	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, before you there is the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in a Community programme entitled "Programme of Support for Policy for the Application of Information and Communication Technologies under the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme 2007-2013, which the Republic of Croatia signed last October 25th in Zagreb, and by the European Commission this memorandum was signed in Brussels last year as well. The programme aims to develop the market for innovative information technology solutions in the field of public interest, which will certainly open a wide range of new business opportunities especially for innovative small and medium-sized enterprises that provide new information communication technology solutions. The estimated duration of the programme is up to 2013 and the total budget is 730m euros. Therefore, all legal entities, private companies, public institutions, central and local administration bodies can participate in the programme, with projects declared under this programme being paid by the European Commission to participate in 50% of the total costs, regardless of whether they are costs for the purchase of goods or services. In order to inform the Croatian public about the opportunities provided by this programme, the Central State Office for e-Croatia last year funded the development of sites that provide all information, so from that basic information to information on how to prepare the entire proposal for the programme and possibly how to find partners to implement such a programme. The site was placed in the middle of last year and you can find a link to the central state e-Croatian office, we have a link down here called ICT PSP. I would like to inform you on this occasion that the publication of the call for a project will take place during March when the European Commission makes the necessary conclusions, and the deadline for reporting will be the same by September of this year. The 2008 budget is therefore a total of 44.5m euros for the project and the areas to be financed from the work programme for this year are information communication technologies for users for simple public administration, public services and coverage of 23.5m euros, information and communication technologies for energy efficiency and sustainability in urban areas of a total of 13.5m euros, building consensus and exchange of experiences in the development of Internet security of 2m euros. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the adoption of the law on the confirmation of this memorandum will allow the realisation of quite certainly valuable sources of funding for projects that will contribute to the development of the market for innovative information communication technology solutions. We suggest you accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4148	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The chairman of the Committee on Finance and the state budget, Mr. Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4149	Dear Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 3rd session held on 6 March 2008 the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Policy Support Programme and the application of the Information and Communication Technologies of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Act on 29 February 2008. The Finance Committee and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed it on the basis of Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the Law in question as a home working body and supported the unanimous proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt this law by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament has decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the policy support programme for the implementation of the Information and Communication Technologies of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4150	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4151	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The HDZ Club will give full support to the proposal for this law for a number of reasons. First of all, since this bill, after confirming in the Croatian Parliament, offers the Republic of Croatia an important option relating to participation in the programme for the application of information and communication technologies. The so-called (ICT PSP) programme, which is part of the framework programme for competitiveness and innovation that we discussed in the Croatian Parliament several weeks ago. This bill is a good opportunity for the Republic of Croatia and it best shows the deep meaning of European integration. This programme allows the Republic of Croatia to participate in the creation of a single and information European space. It's a privilege, it's a significant possibility. The participation of the Republic of Croatia through this programme in the construction of a modern European society based on information and communication technologies is a topic that deserves attention. The question is, I would say, without exaggeration, if we were to discuss such an important topic in the Croatian Parliament given the different priorities and interests that do not force us to do so by the processes of European integration. And it is very important to emphasise when we talk about Croatia's accession to the European Union. More and more important topics, more and more attractive topics, more and more economic topics, more and more topics aimed at growth in the economy, development, based on modern technologies, in this case communication information. And for that reason, it should certainly be pointed out that I hope and I am sure that not only the HDZ Club but all other clubs will confirm this important law. However, what is important to point out, in the application of this Act there is no automation, there is no attitude towards which the Republic of Croatia receives grants, means the means to participate in this programme. This right of participation in this programme, I will say without exaggeration, belongs only to the best, most capable, competitive enough, innovative enough, to apply with their ideas, with their projects in collaboration with other state institutions or private companies from at least 4 to 6 countries to obtain funds from this Programme. So there are no individual companies, there are no individual institutions and each individual Member State of the European Union, but with this strategy, the European Union, or the European Commission, seeks to ensure what we call a critical mass of sufficiently large projects that can have a significant pact, i.e. an impact on the development of the competitiveness of the information European space, European information technologies on the global world market. This is the purpose of this programme, these projects, and it should certainly be pointed out. Information and communication technologies have a significant impact not only on the growth of the technology sector but also on the quality of life and competitiveness of many countries in both the European Union and the global world market. Distance learning, E-Government, e-fiscalization, e-catastre and many other projects are merely an illustration of what is here the subject of conversation and the subject of interest. And I would say, before all of us, there is a great responsibility that, after confirming such an important European law and the adoption of that law in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, we use all the opportunities it offers. An E-Croatian office in that sense, I would say, has an extremely important role and place. And I am sure that this task of promoting all aspects and values of this project will be done in the right way so that everyone interested in the Republic of Croatia will be fully informed about what this programme offers for the development of high-tech science, research in the Republic of Croatia. This proposal for a programme and this debate is also an opportunity to talk about what is often mentioned in the Croatian Parliament, becoming, I would say perhaps a more popular topic, but perhaps without sufficient concentration on the essence, economic growth and development based on new technologies. This is a good opportunity to speak very specifically about the key to economic success and the economic growth of high technology is the high application of newly created values, new goods, and the improvement of existing ones through the active participation of our institutions in such programmes. A few words. Funding. In any case, 730m euros, which the European Commission, under the so-called CIP programme, has allocated to the development of information and communication technology under the so-called Innovation Competitiveness Programme, but points out the importance of this programme and this project being attached to the overall European strategy. The entire CIP program, i.e. The increase in competitiveness and innovation of the European economy over the next few years will have financial support of 3.6 billion euros. It's a big and significant asset. A few weeks ago, we spoke in the Croatian Parliament about a sub-programme of a CIP programme called competitiveness, entrepreneurship of innovation, a programme that has 2 billion and 170 million euros in budgetary resources, that programme, I would say, equally deserves attention, has gone through discussions in the Croatian Parliament, perhaps completely undetected. One of the three sub-programmes of the European CIP also refers to intelligent energy with a budget of 730m euros. The ICT PSP programme, as it says here, is intended to develop a market for innovative information communication, technological solutions in the area of public interest. What it looks like is the structure of projects that are planned to implement and implement and to which we have the right and opportunity to compete with our applications. The implementation of ICT PSP activities will be implemented, which is particularly important to highlight through a limited number of projects. So a limited number of projects and these projects are classified in two categories, larger scale projects, A-type projects and projects, etc. pilot projects type B. Type A projects aim to establish information services in several Member States of the European Union and associated countries. What I want to highlight in projects of type A can be part of the state administrations of organisations and agencies. At least six different Member States or associated countries must participate in the project reporting consortium. So there are no small projects, no fragmenting, no simmering, no ideas, no ideas, there are associations that can result in major projects with the chance to change the character of the European economy in this way and the technological potential and competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Project duration is scheduled for 36 months. Type B projects aim to encourage the use of innovative services of public interest based on information and communication technologies, which can be used at national, regional level. At least 4 Member States or associated countries must participate in the project reporting consortium. This shows that besides ideas, besides knowledge, besides projects themselves, a very important and organisational aspect, an aspect of management and the ability to apply not only, but to participate in such large projects. It's a real challenge and I'd say a real opportunity. The content of the ICT PSP programme includes the following. The project will also support the development of a single European information space, strengthen the European internal market for information and communication technologies through new services and through new products. It will also support innovation in this area through strengthening investments in the ICT sector. Also, the development of an information society and much more efficient services of public interest, as well as the improvement of quality of life, are important aspects of this project. Funding, a few words have already been said. But I want to stress in 2007 Croatia did not yet meet the conditions that it could apply to this important programme. The funds were allocated in this document that I have since May 2007. For 2007. 57.4 million. The deadline was October 23, 2007. However, in 2008, as it stands here, 52 million funds are foreseen. In 2009 105 million, 2010. 112 million, 120 million and more than obvious that investment in this sector is growing in the coming period. The review, it's the key and most important thing. You can have a program, you can have a good program but that program has to go through very strict reviews. What are the criteria? Number one criteria for proposals for both the Republic of Croatia and other countries, the relevance of the proposal, the relevance of the application, given the work programme defined by the European Commission and updated for each year. It should therefore still be stressed that the European Commission is late in some things and that the 2008 work programme is not defined according to its priorities. This makes it kind of difficult for applications, but I believe and hope that on the pages of our e-Croatian office, as soon as this work programme appears and is distributed by the European Commission will also be available to all Croatian institutions. I spoke to my colleagues yesterday, my Dean, not the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, and I must say, they look forward to a work programme for 2008. The following criterion in the programme review concerns the so-called IMPAC factor, which is the potential of an application proposal to change the real state and to generate as we say real added value in areas of interest defined by the work programme. It's also one of the most important criteria. Good ideas, good organization does not mean both successful implementation and implementation. For these reasons, with sufficient experience, all those involved in the work of the European Commission have said the very clear coherence of the resources of human, quality and financial capacities is one of the important criteria for the review. All proposals and programmes will be reviewed according to these criteria. The scores are from zero to five. The threshold is three. The financial capacity and the ability to implement is certainly one of the more important aspects of the passage. For all these reasons, I will repeat in the final terms as I have said and at the beginning of this bill this proposal can make a significant contribution to the technological modernisation and restructuring of the Croatian economy based on information and communication technologies through association with similar companies in other Member States of the European Union, and therefore the HDZ Club fully supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4152	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Representative and Vice President Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct the inaccuracies of Honorable counterpart Cosic that we are today discussing an important European law. However, the allegations are not correct, according to the motion, as the government has qualified as it marked the law. She didn't label it European. This isn't P.Z.E. The law and everything that Cosic said, and with which I agree, this was supposed to be a European law. For unclear reasons, he is not, so I call on the government to choose more carefully, to mark the laws that he sends us to comply with European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4154	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4155	Article 209 I was not talking about formal reasons, but I was talking about the essential reasons. If you understood these essential reasons, then there would be no need to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4156	The procedure changes the Rules of Procedure, but I will point out that, once again, although I have mentioned it several times that Article 209 is true, it speaks of having the right to be corrected, or to be warned about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So the fact that we have the right does not answer the question of which article of the Rules of Procedure is injured. Are we now, so Article 209 regulates the right to talk about it. But there could be any of these other articles hurt. So let's keep that in mind, because I've already warned you several times. I don't think there's any reason for us to argue about this right now. Obviously, it is not “E” but it does not mean that it is not European law. Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. It is up to Mr. Ponzimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4157	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Secretary of State. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in a policy support programme for the application of information and communication technologies, ICT PSP shortcuts by English spelling. And we have the opportunity to discuss and decide on it because in June 2003 the European Council adopted a conclusion on the opening of the European Community programme to the countries of the stabilisation and accession process. Since 17 and 18 June 2004, Croatia has been a candidate country, we are given the opportunity to participate in an extended number of European Community programmes. The specific conditions for Croatia's participation in each programme, and in particular the financial contribution, must be laid down by the Memorandum of Understanding considered international in speech and within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia becomes part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This is the case for each programme, and this programme is part of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme in 2007 to 2013. One out of three of his pieces. The first part of entrepreneurship and innovation was already in the Parliament, the second part is support for policies for the application of information and communication technologies, and third, intelligent energy is also in the process. Each of them has its own memo and the managing body, or committee. The ICT PSP programme is based on an initiative for the development of the information society in Europe and 2010. This initiative is being implemented through the e-Croatian programme. The ICT PSP programme is financing projects in the public and private sectors. All legal entities, local self-government, companies, public administration bodies and public institutions may participate in the application of projects. What do we get with this memo? The possibility of participating in the programme and using its results. Unlike other ICT PSP programmes, it enables the participation of 50% of the costs accepted as well as the salaries of officials, or 50% of those costs that are not possible in other PHARE programmes, CARDS or IPA. ICT PSP funds are financed by pilot projects that must operate for at least 12 months after the establishment of an information service. The projects must include at least 4 countries, as has already been said for smaller projects, projects ranging from 2 to 2.5 million euros in co-financing, which means actually a double amount of the project itself, and at least 6 countries for larger projects, 5 to 10 million euros per co-financing project, i.e. a double amount for the total value of the project. That means the project is being reported to the consortium. By means of a memorandum, we enter equally with the Member States as a participant in the programme. The second funding mechanism is the financing of thematic networks, which are a consortium of experts from a particular area, for example. e-Health. For the illustration, there was a competition for thematic networks in 2007. Innovative solutions to e-public administration, then accessibility of information and communication technologies for everything that means for people with disabilities, older people etc. Furthermore, for eHealth our telemedicine office has applied for the thematic network in eHealth and their proposal is very positive. Further thematic networks for sustainable development and for intelligent cars, for privacy protection, and for 2008 the competition will only be announced. The third type of activity is for the production of studies on the state of the information society. By taking effect on the memo we are discussing, we are entering into the monitoring of the situation. The European Commission is most often engaged by tendering institutes that collect data or analyse the situation. Our National Statistics Service is getting a gift for data collection. And from all this information, I have concluded not only that this law should be adopted but that we will actually profit by participating in terms of improving the information society in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4158	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4159	I would only correct this once again if it were not an important European law, since there is no "E" label and it is that this memorandum was signed on 25.10 last year, so this is just formalising the signing of the memorandum, and only understanding between the European Union, or the communities of the Republic of Croatia, will be in this debate on ZERP. Well, I think there's a bill promoter here, and so is the HDZ club, and if all the debates are based on the same debate, I think this is just a waste of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4160	It's not a correction to an incorrect assumption. It's a court of law. And which clubs and representatives will discuss, it's a matter of MPs and clubs. We can't determine it here, but we're looking at what's in the procedure, and whether the law is important or not, it's also an expression of the court's worth, not a correction of an incorrect assumption. Thank you very much. Representative Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4161	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia is a legal basis that allows the Republic of Croatia to participate in activities within the framework of the Information and Communication Technology Programme, which is actually a prerequisite for opening the possibility of participation of representatives of the Republic of Croatia in projects and programmes financed under this programme, which are also foreseen by the annual activity plan. This Framework Programme sets out the general principles for the participation of the Republic of Croatia in these Community programmes, while the Commission, the European Commission and the Croatian competent authorities will establish specific provisions and conditions for participation in each programme, including, of course, a financial contribution. It is important to stress that the conditions for participation in these programmes for institutions, organisations and individuals from the Republic of Croatia will be the same as for institutions, organisations and individuals from the Member States of the European Union. Of course, participation in these programmes is also a financial contribution. But as it stands in the memorandum, this contribution, or addition, can also be financed from the external assistance of the community if the Republic of Croatia so requests. Of course, there is also a permanent monitoring of such a partnership that includes both the Commission and the Republic of Croatia with the right to see the documentation. There is also the possibility of a change with mutual consent as well as a break in the memorandum of understanding. I would say that this is one step in the long way of European integration, but useful and important, so it should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4162	Thank you very much. Does the Proposer's representative want to conclude? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. That's what they'll decide when the conditions are met. We are going to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community of the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in a policy support programme for the application of the Information and Communication Technologies of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme 2007-2013. A year. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This bill was unanimously adopted by 129 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4165	Thank you very much. Good morning, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In my presentation, I will briefly look not only at the period covered by the half-yearly report that you received, as it was addressed to the Parliament even at the end of last year, bigger throughout 2007, as well as the objectives of the monetary policy instruments that the Croatian National Bank will lead in 2008. During 2006, as you know, the growth of credit to banks was accelerated to almost 25% annually, despite monetary policy measures that dimmed the growth of foreign sources. First of all, despite the high limit reserve that the banks owe 55% of their foreign sources to immobilize on their accounts to the central bank. The rapid growth of credit, since domestic savings were not enough for him, financing by borrowing banks abroad. These are movements that have fuelled both high international liquidity and low interest rates on the global financial market, as well as the fact that almost all major Croatian banks are banks of foreign banks, allowing them relatively easy access to foreign sources. The result was the rapid growth of foreign debt and foreign debt ratios in the gross domestic product and the growth of current balance of payments deficits. The deterioration of these relations did not lead to inflationary pressures and price increases, as domestic demand was largely translated into increased imports. A significantly faster growth of debt than the growth of economic activity seen in the growth of foreign debt and gross domestic product also indicates that this foreign savings is used insufficiently, largely on final consumption, and not enough to increase production, especially for export production. Such movements as we know are not sustainable in the long term and increase the country's exposure to external risks. A strong credit expansion also potentially means a potential loss in asset quality to the extent that credits are granted to less credit-worthy debtors. As a result, the monetary policy of the Croatian National Bank has been such since the beginning of 2007 to maintain restrictions on the banking system's passiveness and border reserve, and has introduced certain restrictions on the banking system's assets. A decision has been taken to dim the annual growth of banks' loans above 12%. For each increase in credit above that percentage, banks are obliged to enter the Croatian National Bank's cash registers at not an interest rate of 0.25% in the amount of half the excess. The aim of the measure was to slow the growth of loans from around 25% to 12-15%, thereby slowing the growth of foreign debt, thus affecting slower import growth. And finally, limit the stimulating risks of active banks. It was also estimated that such slowed credit growth dynamics, even though it was a significant slowdown compared to 2006 remained expansional, significantly higher than the expected nominal growth of the gross domestic product and would not have a diametric impact on economic activity. Although loans to banks grew faster than loans to businesses, especially in the second part of the year, the total availability of loans to businesses was significantly higher in 2007. The population is dependent on the offer of loans from domestic banks, and businesses, in particular, have a relatively easy access to direct lending from abroad. In addition, it can be concluded that the measures have made it significantly less difficult to finance the economy as desirable, since the economy, unlike the population, is benefiting from the production of investments. In 2007, growth in banks slowed to 15% in December 2007. The growth of net domestic assets slowed from 17.9% to 7.3%, but with significantly faster growth of foreign assets, so that the total M4 and the largest monetary aggregate remained at approximately the same level of growth of around 18%. It can be concluded that the growth of domestic sources in addition to bank recapitalisations was sufficient to finance slow credit growth, so banks strongly increased their net foreign debt claims and reduced their foreign debt. M1 currency mass slowed growth from 25% in 2006 to 19% still high in 2007. While the course varied in a narrow range, the central bank continued its continued policy of preventing the appreciation of the kuna exchange rate by buying from banks five times through foreign exchange interventions of 839m euros. There was no sale of foreign currency to banks last year. The total international reserves of the Croatian National Bank rose from 8.7 billion euros to 9.3 billion euros. According to still temporary data, foreign debt increased from 29.3 billion euros to 32.6 billion euros in 2007, i.e. by 3.3 billion or 11.3%, while more than 6 billion euros were paid over the year and around a billion euros in interest. Banks have reduced their debt by 1.5 billion euros under monetary policy measures but have increased the debt by 3.8 billion. The debt of the state including HBOR has stagnated while INA's investments increased by 1 billion euros to 3.5 billion in 2007. The share of foreign debt in GDP rose from 85.3 per cent to 87% which is slightly more than the projected 85.7% since at the end of the year, certain public enterprises were linked to the financing and planning of road infrastructure significantly increased their ino of debt to benefit during 2008. The general foreign debt of the state in a narrow sense and without HBOR has been reduced from a total increase of 3.3 billion to the public sector, above all, to public companies, nearly a third of that increase. As far as the balance of payments is concerned, we estimate that the current balance of payments deficit in 2007 could amount to 3.3 billion euros or 8.8% of gross domestic product. For goods and services, the deficit is estimated at 3.2 billion euros, costing on the basis of imports of 18.6 billion goods covered by 9.2 billion goods exports, which therefore accounts for half of the imports and net revenues from services of 6.3 billion euros, which, of course, is the most significant tourism whose gross annual income is estimated at 6.7 billion euros. In the area of real movement, the results were good in 2007. Economic growth increased sharply in 2007 compared to 2006 and increased from 4.8% in the first quarter of 2007 to 7% in the second to 6.6%, in the third quarter, to 5.1% as expected in the last quarter of 2007 which means that our estimate at this point is that the growth of the gross domestic product in the last year would be approximately 6%. The acceleration was primarily due to the strengthening of domestic demand. Personal consumption accelerated 3.5% in 2006 to the estimated 6.1% in the last year and the country's consumption from 2.2% to the estimated 4.4%. Their growth contribution increased from 2.1 percentage points in 2006 to 3.6 percentage points in 2007 in the population and 0.4% in 2006 to 0.9 percentage points in the country. Investments slowed down from 10.9% to estimated 7.2% and their growth contribution fell by one percentage point from 3.2 to 2.2 percentage points. The negative contribution of exports and imports of goods and services remains approximately the same as in 2006 minus 1.2 percentage points, while at the same time slowing and export growth rates and import growth rates. In absolute figures, the gross domestic product increased from €25.6 billion to €276.6 billion to how much we estimate it in 2007. The high growth in economic activity has also resulted in positive developments in the labour market. At the end of 2007, 254.5 thousand unemployed persons were registered in the Croatian Employment Service records, representing a reduction of 38.7 thousand compared to December 2006. The registered unemployment rate was 14.7% in December, which is less than 2 percentage points in the same month before and according to the latest results of the labour force survey, which is an internationally comparable methodology for the rate of survey unemployment in the third quarter of 2007 fell to 8.4%. As for the banking system in 2007 there was no change in the number of banks on the domestic market. Thirty-three banks are in the system, owned by 16 foreign banks, i.e. one more than in 2006 but their share in the activity remained virtually unchanged 91%. The concentration also remained the same. Six major banks account for about 80% of the total banking system. Compared to a year earlier, active growth slowed significantly from 17% to 13%. The banks were strongly capitalised and their guarantee capital increased from 32 billion to 40 billion kuna, and capital ratios rose from 14% to 15.4%. Before tax, it strongly accelerated growth and, according to unaudited data, amounted to 5.1 billion kuna, i.e. It increased by 21% compared to 2006 which is significantly faster than the growth of the total bank system activity. So capitalisation and profitability of the banking system together with high bank reserves at the central bank is a significant shock in the event of credit tightening and tightening the financial situation on the world market as a consequence of the negative developments that began in the second half of last year. In this respect, the risks of spilling the current problems from the global financial markets into the Croatian banking market have been significantly reduced. However, trends in the world market in one area directly affect the domestic market and this is the area of price growth. Until the middle of last year, inflation was very low. The annual inflation rate fell further from a low 2% in December 2006 to 1.7% and 1.2% respectively in January and February. In June, it was 1.9% and 2.1% in July. Since then, however, the price growth rate has accelerated significantly. There are several reasons to increase inflation. The first impact of the low base period is that in August and September, food prices would rise primarily because of domestic weather and agricultural product collection and in the last quarter, partly due to the rise in oil prices but especially due to the rising prices of cereals and olives on the world market, which is due to unfavourable weather opportunities, resulting in an increase in demand on the world market by large fast-growing economies and the indirect impact of oil prices that is making the growing part of the existing agricultural areas used for the production of so-called biofuels. The rise in prices of these products made the biggest contribution to inflation growth in November and December, so the December rise in prices was 5.8%. The impact of the base period i.e. low monthly inflation at the end of 2006. The best thing you can see is that for the whole of 2007, it means 1. 12. 2007 to 1. 12. In 2006, the annual inflation rate was only 2.9% and was even lower than inflation in 2006. Also, because of the influence of the base period, so-called The statistical transfer of inflation in 2008 is at a high 3.3% high, which means that when there is no price increase in 2008 the average inflation rate would again be 3.3%. Therefore, an analysis of the price index structure and the contribution of individual components shows that inflation did not foster domestic demand that can be controlled by monetary policy, but came from the offer. Market shock on the food and energy market. In such a situation, the role of monetary policy along with other economic policies is to remove the possibility of a more mobile inflation spiral. As a result, monetary policy will continue to include two main nominal anchors in 2008. A liquid anchor, which will suppress the depreciation of expectations and the growth of currency indexed costs, as well as the restrictions on the growth of bank credits that will detimise at levels above 12% this year. Taking into account the nominal rate, the Central Bank is to manage liquidity, primarily foreign exchange interventions and less open market operations, creating a total supply of money at a lower level than that achieved last year. Unless there is a new shock on the side of the offer this year primarily in these two sectors of food and energy, and with the support of other economic policies at the moment, we expect that the inflation rate will gradually fall by the end of the year. So, at the end of 2008, she could fall to a nearby December, possibly slightly below 5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4166	Thank you very much. Do the work bodies want reporters? No, I don't. Does the government want a representative? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Ljubo Jurcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4167	Mr. President, gentlemen representatives of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the Croatian National Bank Report for the first half of 2007. The report was made professionally, the report was made comprehensively, but with these characteristics we have some observations. The first remark is that this report resembles the newsletters of the Croatian National Bank that they issue every month. And that is also professional, but perhaps we should adapt a little more to the parliamentary purpose and purpose this report serves. Because here, however, we are not all experts on monetary policy in a way that goes into deep detail and analysis, and perhaps the essence of what this Parliament should consider here in this report is lost. Second. I was also a little confused by the report, which is on, for the first semester and the data goes to the 10th month so it goes to the second half. And Mr. Vujčić now told the whole year 2007, so I don't know now the purpose of making a report for the second term is we going to repeat the same discussion? Are we going to do a second term report? Are we going to work for the whole 2007 year? And the third observation, and I will finally say it is actually that I think it would be good if this report had a short version where with some conclusions on monetary policy efficiency assessments or the role of the Croatian National Bank, as prescribed by the Law on the Croatian National Bank. So for us and most of us here in the Assembly may need to be shortened, let us see what the objectives of the National Bank, perhaps which are instruments, as the Croatian National Bank achieves those objectives for which this Croatian Assembly has authorised under the Law on the Croatian National Bank. For example, in Article 3 of the Treaty on European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Economic Area (‘the EEA Agreement’), the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the So this should focus, because it is also prescribed in the Law on the Croatian National Bank. Now, he is a colleague, Mr. Vujčić finally mentioned inflation, but I would like to open a question here in the times to come and on the basis of this discussion which was said just before, to actually ask a question after a few years whether this goal is well set and whether this goal is achieved through the operation of the Croatian National Bank. In fact, Croatia is a small and open country and the question arises as to how Croatia as a small and open country or a central bank of small and open countries such as Croatia can affect prices. Prices as we know we call inflation, and it may be wanted on the side that in one country demand is growing, as it has grown in Croatia in the last 5, 6 years, demand is growing because economics, citizens have more money, something due to income, something due to credit. In any case, they had more money in their hands and made more demand. In a closed country if monetary mass grows faster, demand grows faster than production grows, it will cause inflation. In a small country, this will not cause inflation, and that Croatia's national or central every, the small country's central bank is comfortable, because if the demand is higher, there is no domestic production, the country is open, then it will result in an increase in imports, and so it has been happening for the past few years that the increased demand in Croatia is satisfied not from domestic production but from imports and so we have a situation in the external trade balance. Another type of inflation is cost inflation. If the costs on the domestic market increase, then as the country is open, if they collect domestic inputs, in the open country you can also use import inputs, then foreign competition puts pressure on reducing the prices of domestic inputs, so there is nothing special that the central bank can do. Current inflation, as is said, is mainly import inflation that comes due to the purchase of oil derivatives on the one hand, and on the other hand comes due to the purchase of food products. Now the problem in our inflation is that in Croatia, the share of food products in Croatian citizens' income ranges from thirty, five, six percent and over 50%. So the 10% increase in prices in Croatia, food products, in Croatia will turn into an inflation of 3.4 and by a few and 5% while the case is in Europe, where the share of food in income below 20% is much lower. So the solution here is not to me that we are now breaking into influence, to run a policy on how, but to lower artificial prices, especially prices we cannot influence, but is a solution in the long term, especially the solution to our overall policy is faster income growth, faster wage growth and pensions, etc. So that the share of food consumption in the consumption of Croatian citizens is as low as possible. But there is not enough monetary policy, but in fact monetary policy must co-operate with other policies – fiscal, industrial, regional policy, income, etc. But this is also prescribed in the Law on the Croatian National Bank, so I would also like the report on the work of the Croatian National Bank to state that in this case, in the first or next report on work in the second half, that the Croatian National Bank and Government or other policies, fiscal cooperation in creating instruments measures, etc. Because it is obvious that one policy cannot manage the economy, especially the state. What can actually start to worry about in the current situation is that prices are being priced, price increases that are dominantly coming due to the rise in import prices are beginning to decrease in fact by the appreciation of the kuna, which is said in different words to reduce the value of the euro. In order to reduce the price of import products that cost 100 euros, it costs us 135 kuna, so it's expensive, and then we convert the euro is not 135 kuna, but 125 kuna then import goods become cheaper. However, it becomes cheaper and oil, it becomes cheaper and food, but there are cheaper and all other import products. Thus, all these other imports are becoming more competitive on the domestic market. On the other hand, if our exporter exporting Croatian goods, instead of 100 euros, gets 725 kuna instead of 735 kuna, he is already in a worse position. And if his cost of production was 730 kuna and the other day he was getting 735 kuna, and now he gets 725 kuna. The exporter simply comes into an unfavourable economic position, loss and slows down exports. And our fundamental problem in Croatia as a small country is, in fact, a balance of external trade balance or a balance of current balance of the overall economic relationship, a trade relationship with abroad that ultimately turns into an external debt and external debt then becomes a major obstacle to us. And if we solve inflation in such a way as to apply the kuna, depreciate the dollar and the euro then we will actually boost imports, and we will reduce exports and thus make the situation worse in the external trade balance, etc. etc. This is why cooperation between monetary policy and all other policies is important, and therefore, before this House, in front of this House, which determines or decides on all policies, I should give this report how different policies, fiscal, monetary, industrial policy, income, regional policy is working together towards the ultimate goal, and that we are also achieving higher growth rates, higher employment, higher exports and thus reducing the negative balance of external trade balances and external debt. My one technical observation here to colleagues from the Croatian National Bank when they talk about import inflation uses data from the Hamburg Institute that works somewhere on those 29 industrial products that are worth industrial countries. Croatia is an industrial country, but it does not use all the import products used by industrial countries. That's why I think we should, and you have such experts there to create the structure of products imported by Croatia and according to that structure of products imported by Croatia, you use transferred inflation from abroad. So that's one little job out there that you can replace with the one you're now using from Hamburg. We have another question, the second task of the Croatian National Bank is to regulate or regulate, control the banking market and interest. It was a little awkward these days to see Mr. Shucker's finance minister negotiating with interest banks, and this here logic should have an impact on interest on monetary policy, i.e. the Croatian National Bank. Now I don't know if that's the deal between fiscal and monetary policy, that fiscal policy is starting to deal with interest because interest is the price of money. The interest also comes from inflation and money prices and money management is the core task of the Croatian National Bank. The impact on inflation and inflation control is also the role of the Croatian National Bank. Then the question arises what role now is played by the finance ministry or the finance minister when he discusses interest with the banks. However, there are some indicators here. Now, a colleague, Vujicic, said that the profit in the Croatian banking system has increased by 21%, 5 billion and another million kuna, and it is usually said that if you do not know tree by tree, you know fruit. Now, if, by some general criteria, the banking system in Croatia is not monopolous at first sight, and then by profit generated as a fruit, the way the Croatian banking system works is obvious that this banking system generates monopoly profits. If they are not monopoly, they are at least oligopoly and then the question is whether a consistent competition development policy on the one hand is being implemented. On the other hand, the instrument adopted by the Croatian National Bank, which is about a linear increase of 12%, which also applies to small banks and large banks, by the fact that large banks have a larger starting base, let's say that this prevents the development of small banks. I know that selective measures are unpopular, but they can't defend themselves with that. But actually when we come into a situation of unfavourable market development, a monopoly position, then we have to develop a group or set of instruments that, in fact, this kind of development of the situation on the market, and we can't apologize, we can't do a selective policy, we can't do this policy. We can do any policy that achieves the goal we want. And our goal here is to increase competition that in the economy, where profits are much, much smaller than in the banking system. Then it would also have to develop instruments to increase competition in the banking system, and that would then be seen analyticalally and after the profit reduction, that is, as the Bank says popularly should share the fate of the economy. Because banks aren't their own purpose. Banks are an intermediary product. Money is an intermediate product that serves to produce a final product, and when we look from a macro-economic point of view, it is a larger gross domestic product, higher employment, higher exports, etc. Also, in this report for the needs of this House and for the needs of Croatian economic policy that Croatia's small country has more and more foreign investment in the country, then there should be a concentration on the income item in the current balance sheet where we see that it is already officially coming out of Croatia about 2 billion euros in income based on foreign ownership. The income remains less in Croatia, though it enters about 800 million and there is a negative balance of one billion and another one million. That might be a signal, let's say fiscal policy says so what good does Croatia have? They come here, they work, we see these days, and all foreign owners pay dividends. This income, the income outflow this year will be even bigger than the previous year, so maybe it's a signal to fiscal policy to see what's left of Croatia's income. Maybe we should introduce a tax, right, so we have something to benefit from that too. In short, I'll finish. I would have a proposal, that the second report with this report, along with this fundamentally and in detail as we have here, be a brief report that will concentrate on the role and tasks of the Croatian National Bank, above all inflation that will be interesting in the second report and see how the Croatian National Bank is dealing with this. Focus on the balance of payments report, especially the negative position of the external trade balance sheet and income balance, to see what we have done and what we have done, to see if we are taking measures to increase competition on the Croatian banking market and, of course, what policies and what documents the Croatian National Bank and Government have been working on, and what proposals the Croatian National Bank have been up to. Finally, the assessment concludes that Croatian National Bank instruments and policies affect gross domestic product, employment, external debt, etc. etc. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4168	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDZ Club and Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4169	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen, Vice Governor, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Carefully listening to the introduction of Mr. Vice-Governmental, it is the wrong impression that the annual report of the Croatian National Bank is on the agenda, but I will remain in the debate on what is really on the agenda, which is the half-yearly report of the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2007 and should be kept in mind that, in the analysis of this report, the Croatian National Bank's reports should reflect the state and picture of the Croatian monetary, financial and economic system of the country as a whole. In the first half of 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia ensured a relatively high economic growth of 5.4%, while reducing the deficits of the state budget below 3% of Croatia's GDP. This economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also led to a reduction in the foreign debt of the state sector, which makes it a positive key area of macroeconomic developments in 2007. i.e. meeting the Maastricht criteria for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Croatia almost entirely in 2007 made it possible, in addition to the high balance of payments deficit, to maintain the country's macroeconomic stability from the domain of its powers and responsibilities. The semi-annual report of the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2007 shows that the assets of the CNB by the balance sheet on 30 June 2007 amounted to 76 billion and 227 million 748 thousand, hence 6 billion 936 million kuna more than on 30 June 2006 and that the CNB, according to its shown profit and loss account in the first half of 2007, achieved an excess of expenditure of 456 million kuna. Despite the fact that this report is not an annual report but merely a report for the first half and despite the fact that this report is professionally and extremely extensively written on as many as 143 pages, it still sees the domination of the extensive well-known and already published quotes on the macroeconomic indicators of the Croatian economy and the lack of explicitly mentioned what is most important and what stems from the current HNB Act and the Bank Act. Of course, the report on the work of the CNB would be more credible and more content and quality that, instead of the widely described factors of the macroeconomic environment, it would include, for example, a report on the quality and manner of management of the international foreign reserves of the Republic of Croatia, which are entrusted under the Croatian National Bank's Law. There is insufficient explanation in one sentence that the CNB in the management of international reserves is guided by the principles of liquidity and investment security. Such a simplified explanation is insufficient for several reasons. Because the international foreign exchange reserves of the Republic of Croatia amount to as much as 9.3 billion euros. Because international foreign exchange reserves account for 97% of the total income of the Croatian National Bank. Because they are the only and biggest liquid financial assets of the Republic of Croatia and because international foreign reserves have the highest financial weight and the greatest importance for both the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian National Bank. It should also highlight the lack of structure and explanations of the increase in material and administrative costs and services totalling 37 million 816 thousand kuna, which is more than the same period of the previous year for 7 million kuna and 100 thousand kuna. In several places, the report calls for bank operations in the European Union countries and at the same time lacks an explanation and a comparative analysis of possible justification several times the minimum reserve rate of the Croatian National Bank compared to the reserve rates of the central banks of the Member States of the European Union. This already points to the deviations in the business of the CNB from the operations of the central banks of the European Union, which will most likely cause major economic shocks when Croatia enters the European Union. If we assume that the kuna and foreign exchange reserve rate of business banks in the CNB is reduced for example by 50% and which would again be significantly higher than that in the central banks of the European Union, there would be more than 20 billion kuna on the Croatian capital market and only to assume the economic impact of this could be on economic growth and interest reduction, i.e. on the reduction in capital price. It is known to be Article 3. The CNB law is the primary objective of the Croatian National Bank, and within its power to achieve and maintain price stability, and that it is one of the fundamental tasks of the Croatian National Bank to monitor and control the banking system of the Republic of Croatia. As a result, it is concluded that the report is not complete because it does not provide answers to many questions in the area of supervision and control of the banking system, such as:: To what extent and with what results is the supervision and control of the banking system of the Republic of Croatia published? How many banks are subject only to credible direct supervision and to what extent? How many active business banks are valorized? Have the information the CNB has received on the basis of the prescribed financial reports, or has the Croatian National Bank come to this data through direct supervision? How reliable data from financial reports of commercial banks, foreign currency, monetary, statistical, prudential and to what extent are compatible with the real situation, given that the real situation can only be established with direct supervision of banks or on the spot. What banks and how many times are subject to direct supervision and how many active banks have been directly supervised by the Croatian National Bank? From this report, it is impossible to get answers to all these questions, and they are necessary, since in the Croatian public and not only professional, the opinion prevails and dominates the view that all banks in Croatia do not have equal treatment with the Croatian National Bank. All of these remarks on the HNB's half-yearly report for the first half of 2007 should be mentioned for the reason that ten years have been completed these days since the beginning of the biggest banking crisis in the Republic of Croatia. If, at least with discomfort, we remember and call into memory, and we have imperative questions about the real state of the Croatian banking system today and the possibility of repeating the unpleasant past. If we consume a report on the work of the CNB ten years ago and compare it to what is before us today, for the first semester of 2007, we see the unequivocally same conclusion, that the banking system is stable and that it can withstand moderate macroeconomic disorders. This can endure, since the average cost of the assets or bank placements was over 90%, as it is now. How accurate the assessment of the CNB's leadership at the time showed the time and spring of '98. the years when more than 15 banks and savings banks went down. Namely, the entire assessment of the quality of the assets of the banking system of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian National Bank was based as dominant today on the data from the reports submitted by the banks to the Croatian National Bank, not on the actual charging of bank assets or direct control in the premises of banks on the spot. It is therefore justified to view the current assessment by the Croatian National Bank of the real state of the Croatian banking system to some extent untrustworthy. It is true that we hope that the majority owners of foreign banks in the Republic of Croatia are significantly more professional and credible about bank risks, and today they are the ones who protect the stability of the banking system in view of insufficient direct supervision of the Croatian National Bank. The report shows neither the entire monetary policy of the Croatian National Bank, as it is the impression that it is simplified and reduced to the fixation of the courses so that the unreal parity of the kuna becomes an instrument of disturbance of the country's economic policy and the tool of spilling and redistributing all forms of property, both rights and things and money. The overrated kuna creates and maintains a comfortable monopolitical, importing environment in which importers earn extra profits and acquire something that would never belong to them under market conditions and would lead to an unfavourable position on such an overrated kuna of all exporters and the entire Croatian economy and create benefits for all those who have any obligations to abroad. Such monetary policy can lead to a crisis in the near future because foreign debt is being stimulated for the country which is already the most in charge in Europe, and among the three most in charge in the world. It is particularly concerned that the report lacks information that the European Commission, in Brussels, has assessed the current Act on the Croatian National Bank as unacceptable by citing all its shortcomings, which is the official record of Brussels since 28 February 2007. Despite all of the above, and since it is a half-yearly report by the Croatian National Bank, but also because of the belief that in drawing up the annual report, the Croatian National Bank will accept the foreign observations and shortcomings of the HDZ club will vote for acceptance of the Final Report of the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4170	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4171	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed gentlemen of the CNB representatives, the distinguished gentlemen of the MPs! Here's a very, very good one, Mr. Maric. We see that there is a small controversy between the ruling HDZ and the Croatian National Bank, but a little later on. Keep him alive. This report, clear for the first semester of 2007, would be better for all of us to discuss CNB projections for 2008 than for 2007. That is what we do when we debated or did when we discussed the budget. However, in order to talk about 2008, it is clear that this report should be kept in mind, in fact, for 2007. In short, I think that we can also conclude from these figures that 2008 will certainly be a difficult year than 2007. In 2008, it will be one of the most economically, socially difficult return years. In all this, a clear question needs to be asked, what is the role of the Croatian National Bank in this? The Croatian National Bank is an autonomous institution. Some of the governors of Mr. Rohatinski step forward I personally experience the brave, almost cryin' voice in the desert. On the other hand, and for the sake of such advances, Mr Rohatinski heard this performance or he was prepared this performance of the year Marić in front of HDZ who sent you a message from the Croatian Prime Minister or Croatian Government. I think we're reading these messages the same way. On the other hand, Mr. Rohatinski comes from Agrokora, coming from a company that, with the relevant domestic production, is dominantly import-oriented. Through that position, I also follow the Croatian National Bank's relationship to the overrated kuna. It's clearly that each of us individually responds to a strong kuna, when we're skiing, I don't know, when we're buying something in Graz or Trieste to act like we're acting. However, this policy does not lead to anything to artificially strengthening the kuna. And it'll probably come to an end. I repeat again. I see some of Mr. Rohatinski's steps as I said, as the voice of the cryin' in the desert. For example, the message of inflation, reducing budget spending, borrowing abroad, finally all banks are owned by foreign governments, etc., until policy pays, inflation should be monitored but inflation should not be skipped. But I want to point out the following. I come from the most industrially developed region, from Istria, from Buzet, a city that has certainly the largest exports to Croatia by the head of the inhabitants of industrial goods, not cigarettes, not gold, not ships that permanently subsidized state, but come from the city of the leading auto-industry in Croatia that exports I don't know, this Buzet "Cimos" over $100 million on the foreign market, and that exclusively Germany, Austria, France, I don't know England, etc. So now, what's going on here? This course of kuna in some ways endangers this Croatian export, which Mr. Jurcic said in some ways. What the Government, in fact, is a fundamental question, not perhaps why such a kuna is but what the Government here is doing to help exporters in the way that it does to shipbuilding or as it does to farmers. Croatian exports were $10.3 billion in 2007, Croatian imports were $21.5 billion. In 2007, we could say we had a billion or two imports, more than one billion exports. The average rate in 2006 was, the dollar was then 5.85, 2007. 5.36. In 2006, the euro was 7.32, 2007. 7.34. And now take, for example, that someone from the Croatian National Bank must lead this Cimos. You have a thousand hundred workers, 110 million dollars of exports, all goods are placed abroad, you don't get any kuna from the state, wages are solid, of 50 industrial robots that Croatia has there are 50%, and that all sounds nice, but in 2008, inflation will be 6 maybe 6.5%. Payments based on a collective contract clearly need to monitor inflation and the euro falls from, say, 2% to 3% compared to 2007, and it is clearly not a game anymore. I know sometimes that I don't know some Istrians experience us one way or the other. When I say that in Istria, the first economic branch of industry and not tourism, our exports per capita are three and a half times bigger than in our neighbouring Primorje-Gorski County, then everyone sees me looking at them, but if we keep in mind that Croatia saves tourism and exports, then it turns out that again someone in this country has to keep together so that it doesn't simply come to this financial collapse. And why am I saying that? Because in this country, everything is being financially monitored but unfortunately not followed by those who do something. Today, the most important thing is when we look at the unit of this work in the export economy, meaning in an industry that needs to be positioned on the world market, and there is no one there who will give something away. Without it, we'd just go bankrupt financially. I know that this overrated kuna and to me personally as it suits all of you, the Croatian National Bank saves citizens from further purchases because Croatia imports $23.5 billion of goods, we export $11.5 billion. But I am in favour of something else which may not be the job of the CNB but of the Government that if Croatia subsidises agriculture, shipbuilding, textile industry, forestry, then let some subsidize in some way and real exporters, and this year, if I am not mistaken in the state budget, we have allocated about 170 or 200 million kuna for these purposes. This way, gentlemen, we can't go any further. Just as centralised policy impoverishes the periphery and overpriced kuna policies endanger exporters and Croatian tourism. OK, Croatia should be kept clear of this inflation, it is the sacred principle of the Croatian National Bank and so they must be set up but Croatian exporters should be stimulated because they work for all Croatian citizens because the only foreign inflow we can serve external debt in 2006 was 28 billion 998 million kuna, at the end of 2007. 32.6 billion, not kuna, but euros, and today it is at least 34 billion euros in external debt of the Republic of Croatia and in four years it will be 50 billion euros. And now it doesn't matter how much of the same waste to banks, to the state or industry, to the importers, it doesn't matter. It's important here that it moves on that 85% of gross social product. True, in 2006, it was 84.7%, in the second month of 2007. 85.9%, today is 85%. The truth is what Mr. Maric said about growing international reserves as well. 2006 amounted to 8.7 billion euros, 2007. 9.1 billion euros, will continue to grow. Growth and loans, 2006 190 billion kuna, 2007 in the 12th month of 213 billion kuna. Growth and deposits in business banks, 2006 133 billion kuna, 2007 in the twelfth month 155 billion kuna. Growth and gross social product, 2007. 7000 717 euros, 2007 8000 236 euros. Gross social product in 2000 grew on average 4.8%, 2007. 5.1%, 2008 will fall clearly. Compared to these figures, the average monthly salary in 2006 was 4000 735 kuna, in 11 months 2007. Five thousand 131 kuna. So we can't say that there aren't even a few good ones to say economic, financial, etc. The numbers. At the end of 2007, we noted the strengthening of inflationary pressures. growth in consumer prices. In the 12th month, they increased by 1.2%, food prices as high as 3.2%. In this normally the most precedes what you must eat milk, cheese and eggs 8%, vegetables 9.8%, tobacco 3.3%. Compared to 2006, these prices increased by 5.8% but what is the essence of food products increased by 11.4%, vegetable prices by 23% year-on-year, fruit by 21, oils, fats by 31, milk, cheese and eggs by 17.7, water supply, municipal services by 6%, and all of this was the introduction of six, seven percent inflation as much as it was going to be in 2008. On the other hand, industrial product prices are also savaged by producers. In December 2007, they were already 5.8% compared to the end of 2006. Energy increased by 7% during that period. And that says 2008 is going to be a tough year. Except for state-owned banks, normally, all in foreign ownership or ninety-one, two percent foreign ownership. Foreign investment in 2008 will not reach this one from 2007, let alone the growth in 2006 and interest rates that slow global growth, drop capital investment, increase consumption and all this slows down economic activity. The gross social product for 2007 was about five points, six, seven percent. This year will be below 5% due to inflation movements. It will be interesting to monitor exports and Kosovo's declaration that Croatian products will be represented in Serbia where we have achieved the largest surplus of about 300m dollars, right behind Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am of the opinion that the economic relations of Croatia and Serbia in 2008 and thus in 2007 have a greater impact on Todorovic, for example, on the other hand than Sanader and Kostunica, Vlahovic and some, their tycoon there than Mesic and Tadic. And I don't believe so much in the dramatic collapse of the trade between Croatia and Serbia as well as ZERP, i.e. The relationship, I do not know Rupel or Janša vz Sanader, Frištic does not affect the Croatian-Slovenian trade but the turmoil in our region can, although I do not believe it affects tourism revenues. And when I speak to those who can, I mean Bosnia and Herzegovina first. And so many courses to exporters and differentiated VAT rates from tourism are of key interest to the survival of these two branches. So, for the Croatian-Serbian trade, it is more important for me to see what standard will be in Serbia this year than if and when Croatia will recognise Kosovo. And it's clear he will and clearly he has to do it. For the end. I've spoken more than maybe since 2007, than just about the first semester of 2007, as far as this report is concerned, but why? Because simply after the first 2007 milk spill, there is no need to regret what the people would say, the first semester of 2007 was better than this second year, and 2007 will be better than in 2008. That's actually the point. We're not unfortunately ready for all this stuff that he's wearing in 2008. 2008 will certainly be the hardest year since the 99th and NATO attacks on SRJ Yugoslavia, which is why we lost one tourist season and I know a negative gross product. Exporters cry for help, tourism requires smaller VAT, wild inflation, prices of growth, foreign investments will be less, external debt will be defused, salaries will be lagging behind, our environment is unstable, the crisis is global, not only Croatia and it is so clear that the heads of the Croatian National Bank and the Government should be put together and not send such balls from the Croatian National Bank to the Government and Parliament, and then, as the representative of the HDZ Club has done, from the Government to the Croatian National Bank. We will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4172	On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4173	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a semi-annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2007 which informs the Croatian National Bank about the financial situation, the degree of achievement, the price stability and the implementation of monetary policy and all in accordance with the provisions of Article 58. The law on the Croatian National Bank. This is a full report. However, I should point out that this report, which refers to the first half of 2007, uses a lot of data and comments relating to the later period, i.e. ‘ I’m the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is the One Who Is The One Who Is The One Who Is The One Who Is The One Who Is It? ’ ” 9th and 10th months. And that probably reduces the transparency of the entire report. Furthermore, it should be noted that in this report for the first half of 2007 we are only discussing now in early March 2008. And we know that the main objective of the Croatian National Bank is the Law on the Croatian National Bank, which is to achieve and maintain price stability, by supporting economic policy in the Republic of Croatia. However, it also operates in accordance with the principles of open market management. All this points to the responsibility of the Croatian National Bank and according to its constitutional independence and independence in front of Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy. When we analyse this Report, and we can say at first glance that they are a satisfactory business movement in the Republic of Croatia in 2007, but that they also founded a trade balance deficit. It is known that Croatia's foreign debt was increased by 3.7 billion euros last year and that the foreign debt is 32.9 billion at the end of 2007. And this is not based on growth based on measures to encourage and motivate entrepreneurship and technological progress in domestic production, employment and economically profitable exports. It should be stressed that our exchange rate policy and parity swears, relative to the euro or the dollar, is not so important for our foreign trading partners because they are counting all their transactions in euro and dollars and not in kunas. What's important and what's important and what's important. And this is that parity swears, exclusively an instrument of internal policy, and at this point, and not only at this moment but all the time so far, it favours importers who earn in all of this, those who pay large loans, especially to the banking sector and banks, with a special indication of banks in foreign ownership since almost 90% of the banking sector is owned by foreign owners. In fact, it's a well-known fact, and we've already heard it today, that there was a profit of banks in 2007 of 5.14 billion, which is 21.3% more than a year ago. At the same time, the total assets of banks were increased by only 13.3% compared to one year earlier. Such a high profit achieved by mostly foreign-owned banks and is normal and is expected to deploy profits in a way that suits it the most. But it probably doesn't always have to be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Kuna's parity dims exporters in our industrial and agricultural production and long-term increase, a significant increase in imports from exports has led to an increase in foreign debt, while the kuna is artificially stronger, thus disrupting the natural relationship between domestic and foreign currency supply and demand. This reaffirms the deterioration of the price of the competitiveness of Croatian exporters in 2007 and reaffirms that it is more cost-effective to import than to produce. We from the Croatian People's Party have to look back, and we talked about last year's decision taken at the end of 2006 concerning the limit on the growth of banks at 12% annual level and the effects that we have received, and following that decision, and we have warned of them. Namely, foreign-owned banks, which is that more than 90% of the assets of the entire banking system finance their clients in a way, while at the same time bypassing this decision and the restriction are financed in a way that the client's assessment and processing work in Croatia and that same client is referred to with cash, processed papers abroad and where their centralities finance these clients directly and thus bypass the provision of the Croatian National Bank, which, as a result, is the first thing that we have directed good clients and quality clients abroad to owners, the owners of our banks abroad. At the same time, we got that bad clients or bad portfolios remain domestic banking and we created space for domestic banks, and above all, foreign property to increase the possibility of funding for citizenship. And it is known that exactly the lending of citizenship is one of the main drivers of excessive imports, and thus the foreign payment deficit of the Republic of Croatia. This limitation of credit growth also affects small, conditionally said small local banks, which mainly finance smaller economic operators, craftsmen, small entrepreneurs and farmers. As a rule, those who don't care about big banks and who don't have any interest in big banks. In this way, these small, uninteresting ones are finding credit, thereby limiting the development of the sector. Profits and taxes from the lending of domestic companies are being transferred abroad and thus loses the budget and enables foreign financial institutions not to pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the law would define tasks, i.e. Credit-Monetary policy of the Croatian National Bank should of course stimulate banks in cooperation with the state and local community to increase the plasma economy in particular those activities for which Croatia has its comparative advantages, as well as those activities which, with an increase in production, provide greater employment. Finally, I must note that listening to fellow Maric speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, there is an attempt by the executive to reduce the independence of the Croatian National Bank, and the criticism of Brussels on the Law on the Croatian National Bank is that the Croatian National Bank should be given far greater independence than it has under the existing law. The Croatian People's Party will support this 2007 Croatian National Bank Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4174	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, honourable representative Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4175	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Croatian National Bank and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the HSS Club, I will try to make a few points for this report. Given the dynamicisation of inflation rates and overall economic trends, the development of reports 6 months after the reporting period has been little and delayed. The Croatian National Bank should deliver its reports more quickly to the Assembly so that up-to-date data can be discussed. The content of the report itself is standard – the main macro-economic indicators are analysed, so I will try in this order and comment. In the first term of 2007, GDP growth reached 6.8%. The main generator of economic growth is certainly the growth of personal and state consumption. Investment growth in the private sector can be observed in the same period. Exports increased in the first term from the same period in 2006 to 8.9%. But the trend of weakening the international exchange of Croatian economy can be observed. The growth of gross social product, i.e. the gross value added value of the Croatian economy during this period, has been the biggest contribution made by services, in particular financial sector services and less production activities which are somewhat more dynamic than in previous years. On the labour market, positive trends are observed, the number of unemployed dropped by 20,000, down by 6.8% compared to the same period in 2006. Salaries and labour costs rose in the first quarter of 2007 by 5.4% year-on-year, representing high growth in the second quarter, as this growth slowed but still very high at 3.3%. In the first half of 2007, there was also a slight slowdown in consumer prices. The biggest price increase is recorded in the food and non-alcoholic drinks, alcoholic beverages and tobacco sector, and clothing and footwear. Contrary to the general opinion of the municipal service and energy in a weighted sense, they do not significantly affect price increases. The nominal daily course of the Croatian kuna in this period is very stable according to the euro, and according to other currencies is accompanied by global inter-currency movements. Regarding monetary policy in the first half of 2007 the Croatian National Bank continued to apply the measures to limit the credit activity of banks and thus reduced the general availability of credit. In this way, through a credit reduction, the Croatian National Bank acted on the growth of consumption and affected the rise of domestic prices. The CNB measures limiting the growth of bank credit despite high domestic savings in banks and high liquidity banks have a linear character and are equally affecting the lending of citizens as well as the lending of businesses which cannot have long-term negative consequences. The international reserves of the Croatian National Bank grew slower than in previous years and at the end of the third quarter amounted to 8.8 billion euros, which is 8.1% higher than in September 2006. Slowing bank credit activity also slowed bank borrowing abroad. On the domestic money market, there was an increase in interbank interest rates and reached 5.46%. The interest rates of business banks on loans during this period were stable to grow stronger in the third quarter and reached a slight average of 6.56%. Equally, interest rates have increased to the cash deposits that reached 4.55% in June 2007. The capital market was dynamic in the first half, the average daily turnover of shares was 13.5m euros, which is more than in Ljubljana where 8 million were recorded, but significantly less than in Budapest where 205m euros are. In June, the Zagreb Stock Exchange had a total capitalisation of 42 million 908 euros, which is more than Budapest, Ljubljana and Bratislava, and less than Prague with lower average daily traffic. The Zagreb capital market therefore has yet to reach the traffic of comparable stock exchanges. International relations tell us that the balance of payments deficit in the first half of 2007 amounted to 3.4 billion euros, which is 3.6% higher than in the previous year. Stock exports increased by 12.3%, which is lower than in 2006 and is a warning of a possible change in trend. Stock imports increased 12.5% and are lower than in 2006. Direct foreign investments during this period amounted to 2.1 billion euros, which is more than 60% over the previous year. The majority of direct investment was in the banking sector through the recapitalisation of banks in foreign ownership. During the same period, however, domestic legal entities increased their investment outside Croatia. During this period, positive fiscal movements were achieved, revenues from a consolidated state, central state, funds, local self-government increased as much as 13.1% compared to 2006. In addition to strong VAT growth and excise income, revenues have also increased through profit tax. The expenditures went up 6.7%. The largest share has expenditure on social benefits, and expenditure on government employees' salaries, the number of public sector employees has increased, which certainly does not represent a good trend. The lack of a consolidated state in the first term was 0.3 billion kuna. The HBOR debt-free state grew by 1.8 billion compared to the end of 2006. Internal debt grew faster than external debt. The potential debt on behalf of state guarantees has also increased by 0.8 billion kuna. In Croatia, 33 banks operated at the end of June 2007, of which 6 large, 4 medium and 33 small banks. The total assets of all banks at the end of the first term were 325 billion and increased by 6.8% compared to 2006. Banks made a 20.3% profit growth in the first term in 2006. In the first half, the Croatian National Bank achieved an excess revenue over expenditure of 456 million kuna, which is a significant improvement compared to the same period in 2006 when the loss of 494 million kuna was achieved. On a positive trend in business, the Croatian National Banks had the biggest impact on lower exchange rates. The HSS Club accepts this report and will vote in favour of the report for the first six months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4176	I thank the honourable representative. That's what ended the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. Before that, I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). Rules of Procedure, timed out for a 10-minute hearing at 11.33 minutes. First respected representative for the individual debate, Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4177	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to address you with a few words, and regarding the subject Report of the Croatian National Bank for the period from 1 to 6 months 2007 and normally immediately with the observation that it was necessary to better distinguish the arguments by respecting the topic, the point of this agenda, which is a six-month report respecting the other part of the year and which applies to this topic. In particular, we can immediately notice that, in the context of economic activity and its relations with the social gross product, we can conclude that after a slight acceleration of economic growth from 4.3% in 2005 to 4.8 in 2006, the fact is that in the observed period for the first six months of 2007 it is 6.8% or slightly less total by the end of the year, which is certainly a reflection of one noticeable increase in both personal consumption, but also strong export growth, stronger gross value added growth, and therefore immediately in relation to this economic activity in the first half of 2007, there were indeed positive developments in the labour market and that a reduction in registered unemployment rate from 16.7% in the 12 months 2006 to 14.1%) in the observed period, in the first six months of 2007, or nominally from 293 000 unemployed to 249, from 147 to the first six months. Real growth in gross and net wages paid during that period has also been recorded. In this regard, the inflation of consumer prices at the end of 2006 was 2% where domestic inflation rates were reached by only 0.1%, but in that euro area in the observed period and dropped by the end of the sixth month to 1.9%. However, it is certainly important to note, as it has been observed here, that in the third and fourth trimesters prices of agricultural products have been affected, but it is important to note, as it has been found here, that the increase in inflation prices has affected both energy prices and prices of agricultural products, so it is convenient for me to remind you that the share of the price of food and non-alcoholic beverages in the basket for the calculation of the consumer price index in the euro zone is 15.6%, and in Croatia the share is significantly higher and it is more than 30% and thus significantly influences and increases that part, in particular the food share on the price or inflation. It was certainly concluded that the bank's balance sheet on the interbank sector was reduced from 22.9% in 2006, to 17 or 17.4% in the third quarter, and at that time the central bank continued to use measures to slow down the growth of excessive debt on the host sectors to mitigate external imbalances. Accordingly, it also made additional decisions along with the 55% reserve instrument and, with the minimum liquidity prescribed, made a decision to enter mandatory cash registers in order to slow down the annual growth of the banks. These measures, the central bank has contributed to reducing the foreign debt of business banks and slowing down their credit activity, and it should certainly be pointed out that these positive developments have been achieved in a macroeconomic environment characterised by extremely dynamic, real growth, good kuna liquidity. And despite this high inflow of foreign capital, a stable exchange rate. Moreover, the said restrictions of the central bank related to foreign borrowing prompted banks both to promote and encourage domestic savings and consequently resulted in its rise. I will also say that there were positive developments in the capital market that continued during the first half-year and there was a high half-year share traffic, so the highest value of the Crobex stock index was noted. And here I may still look back at my follow-up and part of state finances and fiscal movements, and so we can conclude that during the first semester of 2007, positive fiscal movements that are most evident in the fact that, based on strong growth in economic activity, their high annual income growth is recorded, over 13% higher than last year, which is usually twice as much as, twice as much as expenditure growth. And we should certainly conclude that at that time and continued strong investment activity of the state is reflecting, above all, investment in road infrastructure. In any event, it should be concluded that such movements have resulted in a smaller, significant reduction in the lack of a consolidated general government, and thus in relation to the less pronounced need for borrowing. In doing so, the financial needs of the state largely rested on the domestic financial market in order to reduce its external exposure and contribute to the stabilisation of the share of the foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia in the gross domestic product. In the first six months, the consolidated state's revenues amounted to HRK 59.9 billion, with the largest contribution already being made to VAT revenues, social contributions and incomes from profit tax. Therefore, we can conclude that, in particular, VAT revenues with an annual growth of 11%, excise duties on oil products, tobacco products and personal cars certainly play a dominant role in this. It is to be concluded that income from profit tax in the period of January-June achieves an extremely high growth of 25%, adding above the average increase in income tax. The expenditure at the same time amounted to €55.3 billion, which was in the same period from 2006 to 6%, with the finding that above all, the increase was related to the costs of employees, social benefits and the use of goods and services. The difference between the revenue and expenditure achieved at the level and the consolidated general government for the first half was a positive 4.6 billion kuna, which was four times the balance in the first six months of 2006 with the conclusion that at the same time the state continued to invest intensively, and its non-financial assets increased by not full 4 billion kuna. Respecting the above, and respecting the remarks of my colleagues and the president of the HDZ Club, I am taking the opportunity to accept this report by the Croatian National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4178	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4179	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Jarnjak, Mr. Vice President Vladimire Seks, who certainly sees us wherever you are, respected representatives of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. Although this report refers to the period for the first half of 2007 I believe it is useful to analyse it and see how measures and monetary and fiscal policies are, of course, taking into account and moving in the world economy, how they affected economic activities, the labour market, price and exchange rates, the money and capital market, which are indicators of the banking institutions and the Croatian National Bank. What is evident from the report is that the conditions in which economic and overall social activities took place in the first half were stable without turbulence, stress and unexpected surprises of any kind. A high and stable growth in economic activity of 6.8 gross domestic products has been achieved. So it's significantly higher than the rate in the last two years. And let me just say that in 2005, the gross domestic product rate was 4.3%, 2006. 4.8%, so this is really one high and stable growth in the first six months of 2007 of 6.8%. I think it is necessary to specify the rates of economic growth in the international environment. Thus, the relatively strong growth of the world economy in the gross domestic product rate has exceeded 5%. In this growth of gross domestic product in the world, US economic growth increased by 2.3% in the first term. A relatively strong economic growth has been reported in developing countries led by China, India and Russia. In the euro zone, stable but slightly more moderate economic growth of 2.5% followed by low and stable inflation was reported in the first half of 2007. The annual rate of consumer price inflation in the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2006 decreased 2% at the end of the first half to 1.9%. Economic activity is also driven by positive developments in the labour market. Unemployment has been registered, decreased at monthly and annual levels. At the end of June, registered unemployment was reduced by 20 thousand 400 persons by 20 thousand or 6.8% compared to the same period last year. It is a good indicator and employment, i.e. the number of insurance companies of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which grew at a rate of 2.7% during that period. And under such very favourable conditions of intervention, the central bank's monetary policy continued to use measures to slow down the growth of bank loans and their foreign borrowing. In addition to the already existing border reserve instrument of 55% maintenance of the minimum foreign currency liquidity, a new measure of the obligation to enter the cash registers to slow down the growth of the bank's credit ratings. In the cash market during the first half, a period of relatively low and stable interest rates continued. This favourable movement of interest rates led to an increased demand for kuna in a particular group of banks to preserve their kuna liquidity resulting in the intervention of the Croatian National Bank using the monetary policy instruments I spoke about earlier. I think it's good to note that in the first half of 2007, there was a strong growth of kuna and foreign deposits, so the banks turned to attracting domestic savings and increased deposits by 8.8 billion kuna. As well as moving on the money market and moving on the domestic capital market are extremely important for the economic activity of each country, of course Croatia. The capital market in the first half of last year marked the largest half-year turnover of 10 billion kuna and an increased transaction led to the highest value of the Crobex stock index. It should also be noted that the biggest half-year turnover of bonds has been achieved so far, but we also need to say a continuation of the borrowing of cities and companies as well as countries on the domestic capital market. In the area of international transactions, this period marked the slowed growth of the Ino Debt. Banks cut their liabilities by 0.4 billion euros compared to the end of 2006. The country's foreign debt decreased by 0.1 billion euros, however, at the same time, businesses continued to increase their ino debt to banks and related companies abroad at 31.7% of the average annual rate. However, I would point out something here, that I believe that business responsibilities are not aimed at personal consumption but at business development, in order to increase production and expand business and in the short term, and in particular in the long term, they will contribute to economic growth and thus to the increased standard of our citizens. And for that reason, I think that is also a good reason for our Government's commitment to join the European Union, given that it is the largest part of its duties from the countries of the European Union. Joining the European Union as well as NATO will certainly contribute to an additional increase in credit ratings. And so, I welcome all government activities on that path. As a result of strong economic activity and the consolidation of state finances in the first half, a double-speed growth in revenue of 13.1% was achieved compared to expenditures of 6.7%. The continuation of investment activities was, in particular, the continuation of investment activities particularly in road infrastructure. This led to a reduction in the general government's debt and a stabilisation of the share of the Republic of Croatia's debt in gross domestic product. I also believe that it is necessary to say this, and that is also pointed out in this report, that the amendments to the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government have taken place at the beginning of the year that decentralises the income by which income from profit tax belongs to the State and part of the income tax on municipalities, cities and counties. Here's to say, in my town of Valpovo, there's been a significant increase in tax revenues. And so we could string down and list many more positive indicators, about the success of this government policy in all the segments this report of the Croatian National Bank shows. Here's what I'm saying. I'm gonna back this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4180	Thank you. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Boris Matkovic, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4181	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, especially dear colleague Majdenic, I would like to join your invitation, our Vice President, Mr. Vladim Sheks, with good wishes for a very quick recovery and a return between us. You've done very nicely and talked about good and positive indicators. Perhaps, I would have complemented something related to the trade in goods, also very important, and this is nevertheless the fact that the weaker export growth was particularly apparent in the first quarter, and this was mainly caused by smaller exports of ships and oil and its derivatives, and the cause was the influence of the base period and, in particular, it should be said whether, slower export prices. However, there is also a positive point to be said, in the second quarter of 2007, the growth of trade exports increased. There has been increased exports of ships, but also oil and petroleum products, power plants, appliances, devices, medical and pharmaceutical products, in order to continue the same trend in July and August of the same year, with the same indicators, and especially with those products, along with the exports of cereals. And what is very significant is that this, in particular, relative growth refers to the new members, therefore, of the European Union, that is to say, to us close here in the region of Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, it should be said that from January to August 2007, goods imports grew slower than the previous year, which is very significant.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4182	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I think we should stress this component that is related to the security integration processes when we talk about the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Croatia today, tomorrow, in the coming years. Given the still turbulence, security and political processes in these areas. The recognition of Kosovo, not certain elections and election results in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina's stability. This positive integration effect, which will have on the Republic of Croatia, on its macroeconomic stability, by entering NATO, deserves, I would say such an explicit comment. In any case, these positive effects can affect the good credit rating of the Republic of Croatia and in such turbulent political times through the minimisation of security risks, the increase of foreign direct investment and these are all components that, despite the unfavourable, political security conditions, provide one macroeconomic security through the wise, and I would say, the far-sighted foreign policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4184	Thank you. On behalf of the proposing vice governor Boris Vujčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4185	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable MPs and the MPs. I, of course, can't look back on everything that's been said here, but just a few things, I think you should look back. First, what has been going through all the discussions is practically what I have heard, which is the structure of the report, or the time period for which the report is sent. The Croatian National Bank felt that when we came to the Parliament it would be okay for us to inform lawmakers about what is going on today and what is the monetary policy plan for 2008. For us, it is much easier to talk only about the first 6 months of 20087. For them we have data, it happened nine months ago, but we thought you'd be more interested in what's going on today and what our plans for monetary policy are like by the end of the year. However, in all the discussions, I heard that we should actually concentrate on the first six months. There is nothing in the law that speaks of how we should report to the Parliament. In the law, the Croatian National Bank reports at least twice a year to the Parliament on current developments concerning the financial system of price and monetary policy movement. So, if you want to have some kind of special form of report, if you want it to be just 6 months, it's not a problem for us, though, it's easier for us. We simply thought that in the third month of 2008, talking about the first 6 months of 2007 was slightly deplaced. So that's why, in my presentation, I told you, even what we're going to do in 2008. But I'm saying, we're open and we can stay in touch with the Parliament for the next report when we send it to agree on how you want us to keep you informed. I must also say that this report was sent in 12 months to the Parliament, whether, was adopted at the 11th month at the Council of the Croatian National Bank, but here, it is discussed in 3 months 2008, whether, because of the elections, the establishment of the Parliament, etc. As far as I'm concerned, some requests have been made regarding the report. There's no problem in putting them inside, although some of them were, I would say even different, it's one thing to focus more on basic goals, to make some content about achieving the most significant goals, as Ljubo Jurcic said, we can always put it at the beginning, especially for those who may not be economists or who want to go through this report faster, an executive report, a summary and we'll do it for the next report and make it easier for you to go through it. It was also suggested to say more about governance... Guards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we can do that. So in the next report we'll give you more information about the management... But that doesn't mean that the report is going to be less, so we're going to spread it now, the next one's going to be a little bit bigger than this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was also required of us to say something more about bank control, and we'll let you know. So how many bank controls have been carried out, how many assets have been examined, which banks have been supervised, etc. That's no problem, but it'll expand that report. As for some remarks only repeated or repeatedly mentioned. One was the banking system, that works as a monopoly or an oligopol, that it has very high incomes and that competition should be strengthened. Two things I might just say about it. The first is that the profit of the banking system in 2007 was largely so high due to high capitalisation, which means that the total profit increased since the sources of funds were cheaped, they came as capital while the average return on capital, meaning to that swarm so-called. I fell. And competition in all indicators showing competition in the banking system in Croatia is very high. However, international comparisons show that competition in the Croatian banking system is one of the highest in Europe. So at this point, we have a lot of competition on our credit assessment in the banking system. It was also said that we will have problems with the mandatory reserve when we enter not, in the European Monetary Union is, because the minimum reserve rate cannot be even remanded, but simply by entering the European Monetary Union, we take the obligation to reduce the minimum reserve rate to 2% as much as it is in the monetary union. If this were to happen in a way that we would at one point bring the minimum reserve rate down from the current 17% to 2%, it would really cause a liquid shock on the market that could not be tolerated. But that's not gonna happen. For such a thing there are ways to create a transitional phase of the long term, five to ten years in order to avoid liquid shock and countries entering the European Monetary Union such as Slovenia that had a high rate of mandatory reserves did so. We'll do the same when the need comes. We already know what we are going to do, and if there is a need in a future report, that is, when we are close to the European Union, we can also explain it to the Parliament. This can simply be achieved by creating a long-term bond that immobilises these funds, or by civil releases through the deadline of five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten years that it takes. As for the stability of the banking system, I think it's important to say, the question was whether our banks put in and I think they are absolutely. I want to repeat once again that the Croatian National Bank's assessment that the Croatian banking system is stable is not only the Croatian National Bank. It's a rating of rating agencies that also evaluate these banks. It was an assessment of the International Monetary Fund carried out last week in Zagreb. It's a grade... the European Commission programme, the World Bank, which was also in Zagreb recently. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] All the grades indicate that the banking system is stable. He's highly capitalized. 15% capital adequateness rate, a fairly large pillow through profit that can withstand significantly large, significant shocks even in the malfunctioning of activity. We're working on what's-his-name. stress testing, i.e. subject to modern methods of labour analysis, bank balance analysis of certain negative changes that can occur and all of them show that the banking system in Croatia is stable. As always, the question of the unrealistic exchange rate is raised here and there. I sometimes feel like I've explained it to everyone on the street three times. I've been saying that for ten years. I'll do it one more time. Croatia with the structure of its financial system where 80% of deposits in the banking system make foreign currency simply has no choice but to run a stable exchange rate policy. For what? That's why, because if you have an 80% Passive in foreign currency as a bank, then you have to ensure yourself from the exchange rate risk,... in a way that you have as much activity as on the side of the assets denominated in foreign currency that our banks as good masters of their own exchange risk and work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every disk manager in the bank does that. However, they pass the exchange rate risk on to the borrower to the borrower. The borrower has income in kunas, has obligations in euros, Swiss francs or anything else. The only one who, in such a situation where you have 80% of deposits in foreign currency, and that has no country in the European Union or Central Eastern Europe, is the only one who can provide a complete financial system and thus the economy from the exchange rate risk in Croatia, is the Croatian National Bank by ensuring a stable exchange rate. If a stable course goes through all these risks will be effected through bank balances, transferred to the borrowers and transferred at the end to inflation growth. We can't let that happen. We've had these situations in the former Yugoslavia. Those who remember what was in the former Yugoslavia will remember periods of inflation, hyperinflation. Remember the beginning of the 1990s in Croatia. We can't let that happen. The CNB law is the last thing. .... /Jarnjak: Finish, time is up, so you can proceed later./... There he is. The law of... We did not want to silence him, of course, that he is negative, not negative, but the European Commission has said that he needs to be completed and that the amended Act on the Croatian National Bank will soon come to Parliament, which means additional independence is achieved and further provisions on integration in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4186	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4187	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'd only like to correct the vice governor briefly. In fact, when he spoke about the fact that MPs are mostly now talking about data for the first six months, and perhaps in this direction they should talk about this given these data that are now known in some way and throughout the year 2007. But here's what I'm saying: As Parliamentarians, we must speak in an argument. And we can only talk about this data that we have here in this report. We are aware that any such flat-rate assessment, especially on the capital market and the money market, can have very negative consequences on the financial market, and therefore also on the racial economies. That's why it's so good when we're really focusing on this report from the first to the six months. Because I'm saying, we're being followed by both businessmen and sometimes someone's or arbitrary opinion takes us seriously, and sometimes it's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4188	Thank you. Let's move on. Dear Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4189	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian National Bank. There is already controversy about what we are discussing, about which macroeconomic data etc. However, regardless of what the report really consists of for the first half of 2007 and what we have in some places and data by 11 months 2007 I don't think we can ignore the fact that the Croatian Parliament adopted the State budget for 2008, that we adopted this budget on the basis of macroeconomic indicators for the whole of 2007 and that also by discussing this report regardless of what it is for a certain period last year, we cannot ignore the fact that, in particular, in the second half of 2007 and early 2008 that certain changes, certain events, certain problems, crises, etc. which must have had an important impact on the environment economy, but clearly on the Croatian economy. So the report may seem inconsistencies at some point, but I think it's good that everything that's been going on until the day of its adoption, so here's what counts until he gets to the Parliament, that's where he stands. In fact, of these problems since these changes, at the end of 2007, and what is important has affected and what will be determined by our monetary and fiscal policy, I would say in 2008 but surely in the coming period, the rise in prices of crude oil on world markets, the energy crisis, the increase in food prices and raw materials of the food industry, and we can especially talk about the impact in the Republic of Croatia because we know that just a significant share in household spending has a diet. Also financial turbulence on the banking market of the United States of America, which looks this far and wide, but it certainly has an impact on the global interest rate, the price of money and the banking system at all. There is then an increase in inflation and interest rates in the EU zone, which certainly affects both the price of money and the amount of interest but also the level of investment. Also as an indirect impact, it is a slowdown of economic growth in countries that are our most significant external trade partners. All of these, therefore, are movements that certainly have a significant and significant impact on both monetary and fiscal policy. It is precisely because of the situation, precisely because of the environment in which the Croatian economy is located, that it is important to say that it is necessary to preserve macroeconomic stability and promote economic growth and that sustainable economic growth. This is important for us, because of our economy, it is important for investors in the Republic of Croatia, but it is also important because of this situation in which the Republic of Croatia is located, so as a country that negotiates, which enters the association and this very entry and our readiness, etc. the same is therefore based on macroeconomic stability. I would only remind myself of the budget and the first part of that fiscal policy, so the budget we adopted is very realistic, it realistically estimates GDP growth in 2008 of 4.5% and what is important is that this fiscal policy is going towards promoting state austerity. First of all, I think of that general government deficit of 2.3% of GDP and the fact that the first time the budget has a primary surplus, so for the first time, the state covers its income consumption and somewhere around a billion kuna is still left to pay off the debts. Today in the Republic of Croatia and at the level of the profession is debated and there are also those who advocate that the Republic of Croatia should be more in debt and that debt should go in favour of increasing consumption, but those investment, therefore, in businesses, new investments, etc. However, I believe that precisely in the terms of the estimated inflation for 2008, so these 5.2% and also in view of this uncertain global environment and this movement, and also taking into account the existing energy crisis that the budget must be on the verge of curbing state spending and even stronger control of expenditures and reducing deficits. This is what should leave more room for creating growth in the private sector, so the sector that should again generate economic growth and new employment. Why am I saying this? This kind of fiscal policy also requires support in monetary policy, so in the actions of the Croatian National Bank. Namely what our expectations are, which is that the monetary policy of the Croatian National Bank should be restrictive in particular in the growth of credits and also be restrictive about foreign borrowing of banks. It is therefore necessary to use all monetary policy mechanisms that would reduce credit expansion, which would reduce credit placement especially in that consumption, that personal consumption. I don't know, we can also talk about cars, etc., so that consumption that is not involved in creating new values and which is not in the function of increasing production because such a situation is certainly not good for the Croatian economy. It should also continue to work independently on these measures already taken to reduce foreign debt as one of the major problems of the Croatian economy. Because an increase in that external debt can go in two directions. One is that we have an increase in inflation, and the other is that we have a generated and long-term increase in imports. Therefore, the measures of the Croatian National Bank must, above all, work restrictively on the growth of credit expansion, the growth of plasma and on the other hand on the reduction of bank borrowing abroad. Because both are dangerous. On the one hand, inflation on the other hand is an opportunity to generate and increase imports. There were also stories here about course policy. Our monetary policy must continue to focus on preserving the stability of the exchange rate and defending the exchange rate from depreciation just to mitigate inflational effects. Therefore, I am in favour of preserving the stability of the course, and I think at this point, and what the vice governor said, so about the state of our deposits and the stability of the financial system at all, that this is absolutely necessary. It's about the foreign debt. Foreign debt, I suppose we all agree, is a major problem for the Croatian economy and that it is a good thing that this debt is constantly slowing down. But it's still huge, it's still big, so 32 billion are in play. What encourages monetary policy measures, including fiscal policies, so that we have a slowdown in this foreign debt and that the share of the state and that the share of banks over the past period has been reduced from some 23.3 to a total debt of 20.6, so the share of the state. And we also have a reduction in banks from 34 to 27.6%. And that is why these measures were important to limit the minimum reserves of 55% by the Croatian National Bank, thereby raising funds from foreign borrowing to business banks. And secondly, it is this decision on the registration of mandatory cash registers to slow down the annual growth of banks. We have information that by introducing these measures, the external debt of banks has been reduced in the first eleven months by 1.4 billion euros. However, it is not only a matter of reducing external debt. As regards bank borrowing, it is an even more important effect because this restrictive monetary policy has forced banks to encourage the savings of our citizens, to compensate the sources of money they cannot get on the foreign market, to solve them here in the Republic of Croatia, so we have an increase... 14 billion in that period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, I would just say that these measures that have been introduced should be examined in some way whether they are effective enough and whether they may exist in relation to these conservative methods and other monetary policy methods to limit borrowing, because we have seen that we have had significant and excessive borrowing of other sectors, especially this comparative sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4190	Thank you. We have one replica, Honorable Representative Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4191	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs! When Kovacevic spoke about foreign debt, it is evident from this report that the annual foreign debt growth during the first half of 2007 was somewhat lighter than it was in the previous year, so it slowed from 13.4% at the end of 2006 to 11.2% at the end of June 2007. And it says that this slowdown can be fully thanked for the drop in foreign debt of business banks. At the same time, however, which my colleague Kovacevic did not point out in his exposure to the end line, is the fact that during the first half of 2007, foreign debt companies remained domestic sectors including direct business investment, that growth at an average annual rate of 31.7%, while that percentage was 22.9% in the same period in 2006, resulting in companies becoming increasingly committed not only to business banks abroad, but also to their own-owned companies, and this is another of the things to point out when monetary policy is being implemented, as this debt grows regardless of the fact that the entities are in charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4192	Thank you. And the next is Honorable Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4193	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Croatian National Bank, Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the half-year Report of the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2007 made in accordance with Article 58. The law on the Croatian National Bank, according to which the Croatian National Bank informs at least twice a year the Croatian Parliament on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. The report shows the economic activity of the labour market, price developments and exchange rates of monetary policy, monetary movements, money and capital markets, international transactions, state finances and business indicators of banking institutions as well as the result of the work of the Croatian National Bank was shown through the financial reports of the CNB on 31 June 2007. It is all an integral part of the report in question. I believe it is important to point out that according to the data from the financial report of the Croatian National Bank on 31 June 2007, the Croatian National Bank achieved a profit account and a loss of excess income over expenditure of more than 456 million kuna. As much as this half-yearly report can be praised for the methodology of producing a large number of information contained, it can also be found that this report is not too current in Croatia at this time. We all know that in the first half of the past 2007 the situation in the area of economic activity was measured by economic growth indicators was satisfactory and more than well with positive reflections and on the labour market through further increase in employment and continued reduction in unemployment. The money market as well as the capital market also experienced further growth in activity. Inflation didn't show any unexpected movements. All of this was followed by more than expected real growth of gross domestic product with a rate of 6.8% achieved in the observed first term, which is a significantly higher rate than in the same period of the previous two years. The most significant indicators are precisely the unemployment rate that was reduced from 16.7% to 16.1%) over the observed period. The annual inflation rate of two percent at the end of 2006 is 1.9%, at the end of the second quarter means the mid-2007 period. Inflation in the first six months of 2007 increased from 2.3% since December 2006 to only 2.4% or 0.1% in the observed period. All in all total indicators such as can only be desired which unfortunately are not retained throughout 2007. As we heard from the rapporteur in the review and in the second half of 2007, which is not the subject of the report, which highlights the basic reasons for the negative change in indicators, I am particularly interested in the causes of the rise in prices that are mentioned. For two basic reasons, the rise in energy prices and the rise in prices on the food market. It is certain that these are the problems we have been dealing with here since early 2008. Unfortunately, no one could have predicted this kind of movement. Such predictions are also not visible in this half-yearly report and will certainly need to be put into a lot of effort by both the Croatian National Bank and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Resort ministries to keep inflation prices, credit activities, the planned growth rate of the gross domestic product at planned values during 2008. It is precisely because of all this and the current moment in Croatia that this half-yearly report for the first semester of 2007 comes with a certain delay and is not current. This is witnessed only by the rapporteurs and participants of the debate so far, and will certainly be a more interesting report for the whole of 2007 with the expected projections and forecasts for 2008 and the next periods, of course if, in some appropriate time and by half of the current year, it appears on the Parliament's agenda because the later we get it, in itself, will be less relevant, it will have a lower value for both us and for the Croatian financial economic scene. And finally, I fully support the views of my colleague Maric. I believe that this is not an attack on the autonomy and independence of the work of the Croatian National Bank but rather suggestions for solving problems and improving work. It is particularly interesting to find that kuna and foreign exchange reserves of business banks at the Croatian National Bank are reduced by 50% and that would continue to be a significantly higher rate than in other European countries. In that case, more than 20 billion kuna would be found in the Croatian capital market in a short time. This would certainly lead to a positive economic effect but accelerated economic growth, a reduction in interest or a decrease in capital price. This should be taken seriously in the near future because Croatia is approaching membership in the European Union and there will be little time for the long-term reduction of the minimum reserve rate, its harmonisation to 2% as prescribed for the member states of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4194	Thank you. We have two replicas. First respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4195	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I could not agree with my colleague, Mr Huška, who is trying to say that there was no indication in last year about the difficulties and changes in Europe and the world's economic policy and that simply no one could have predicted what was going to happen in the second half of 2007. In time, the governor of the National Bank himself warned that fiscal policy must seriously consider the possibility of increasing energy prices, increasing food prices or a better wording problem called inflation. For two years, Europe has been seriously dealing with the problem of energy and in Croatia the current government has not led a responsible policy towards energy sources, energy sources to be responsible for the part of the use of its own energy sources. The price of $100 a barrel is a story that I would say in the world has been discussing for a good year or a year and a half since the topic appeared somewhere in late 2006. Therefore, there were very many indications, unfortunately, of the current government's response and of the fiscal policyholder on the subject. Since it is very often trying to say that this report speaks about the sixth month and that perhaps it should not have been spoken by the rapporteur about the second half, then we must understand that since we are so late discussing this report it is evident that it had to be agreed today and that the debate on the outcome in part of the second half of 2007 and by the monetary authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4196	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4197	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In one part, they can agree with counterpart Linic about this second part that we are late to discuss this report because there are certain alarming and any positive or negative indicators or indications a year after these events to discuss it and to make some conclusions would really be pointless. I cannot agree with the first part of the replica because I believe and know because I follow such events that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has undertaken everything in particular in the field of energy, in the area of the provision of alternative energy sources where we are really monitoring and the tasks that the European Union has prescribed for us as a country that is in the pre-accession phase of entry into the European Union. We also pay particular attention to the work of the Energy Efficiency Fund, which I believe is one of the most important funds in the Republic of Croatia because it deals with this particularly sensitive and important matter and when you take these assumptions and estimates of price growth, market events and food products, energy areas, the financial market best tells you about what the evaluations were both experts and stockbrokers and all other activists in the area of economy and finance that nobody predicted a year ago at the end of 2007. No such assumption could be heard anywhere. Presumptions of expected energy growth that both the governor of Mr Rohatinski and the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but certainly not to the extent, not to the percentage, not to the amount that happened at the end of 2007 and continues unfortunately in 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4198	Thank you. And another replica of the esteemed representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4199	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would, unlike my colleague Linic, agree in a good way with Mr Huška and those who are in the direction of good and positive development or indicators of development. Just before I said something about export, therefore, an export policy that shows this positive trend of indicators. I would say the same thing in relation to imports or positive indicators of the total Croatian commodity imports in the first eight months shows that no more significant changes have been recorded compared to the period 2006 and yet it is a sign of what can be seen clearly from the fact that it continued in terms of therefore, what concerns the most, imports of countries developed, Europe and, above all, Italy and Germany, and of these developments, this is the most from China. Therefore, these should be mentioned first and foremost as regards countries from the region closer, which is Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro. But what's the point of everything is that it was, of course, whether, there were no major changes, that means that we have one positive indicator, clearly. And we from the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposal for a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4200	Thank you. Let's discuss it further. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4201	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Croatian National Bank. Well, I'd like to resort to those comments and debates that highlight the need for the actuality of the report. Discuss today in the Croatian Parliament, a report of 6, 7, 8 months old, given all the important changes that have taken place in the world economy, in Croatia, would be necessary and necessary. Finally it is clear, the Croatian National Bank Report gives the Croatian Parliament at least twice a year. This does not mean, in any case, if there are justified reasons for the need not to do it 3, 4 or more times. I think the conditions have been created that this report should have been updated and that some elements that are already visible and significantly changing the macroeconomic picture and projection of GDP growth in Croatia should be highlighted. Similarly, many elements point to certain changes at world economy level. Indeed, to talk exclusively about what was in view of these changes, I would say at least is not part of the active policy and restricts us in our horizons to look further, to prevent problems in time to the relevant active ones, or as they say today to proactive policies. Not only those who stand in the mood of the Croatian National Bank, but all instruments that can compensate for negative effects that unfortunately endanger some performances that they would like to be constant of Croatian economies and Croatian societies as a whole. If we did not have that ability, then a good part of the report delivered by various institutions to the Croatian Parliament would only have a formal character. And I don't think it's allowed and it doesn't make sense. The most important institutions of Croatian society, and in these past four years I have had the opportunity to see that they experience the submission of the report to the Croatian Parliament in a much more formal way than in a fundamental way that should encourage discussion, analysis, in demand regardless of the character, of the Croatian Parliament as political institutions, legislative institutions, the search for those solutions that could be traced, I would say, optimal policies that should guarantee better quality of life, greater macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Croatia, in these areas, not only in the global economy for various reasons, but also in these turbulent, political security spaces that we had just talked about earlier, something we said. Here, I might start with this condition of yours that deserves maybe an extra review. The strong, real growth of the world economy continued in the first half of 2007 when the GDP growth rate exceeded 5%, the World Economic Outlock in October 2007. It grows and continues to contribute the most to the countries with efforts markets, and developing countries led by China with an annual growth of more than 11%. A strong economic dependence, i.e. economic activity, was reported in India at 9% and in Russia almost 8%. These countries characterise high growth rates not only at national level, but their contribution to the world economy has indeed resulted in 5% of these rates. But these countries are also the generators of certain problems. Just some of them I'd like to point out. Strong economic growth in China has, above all, conditioned far greater consumption and demand growth, not only for energy, oil, gas, but also for other raw materials, steel, aluminium, etc. These countries are definitely affecting the stability of the world economy by their size. India has made a huge contribution to this economic growth. This morning we talked a little bit about information communication technologies. I'll point out the next fact. India produces 250,000 engineers annually, several tens of thousands of top engineers I would say, perhaps the best, most qualitative and their contribution to developing the world's information market is growing in the world economy and is hardly negligible. Russia with 8% growth, has a very large action factor on everything we're talking about. Unfortunately, its restrictive energy policy under the conditions of demand and consumption growth is today characterised by investment. And one of the reasons why oil and gas prices are rising, especially oil, is the growth of consumption and demand, above all in these major economies, but I would say limited investments aimed at maintaining controlling stocks. This, given the rise in oil prices, has a strong reflection on everything that happens in the Croatian economy, has a major impact on economic growth projections in the Republic of Croatia, on GDP growth and on many other important macroeconomic parameters. Keep going. What I think deserves the same attention. You said in the opening part of your exposure, the euro zone. In the euro zone, stable and relatively strong economic growth was recorded in the first half of 2007. The main driver of GDP growth was continued investment growth, which I particularly stress, investment growth, and net exports also contributed positively. Investments and exports cannot be seen separately, and that is what I would say is an important parameter which, in a way, in a more quality analysis of what might be given in this report, would point to what should be characterized by the Croatian economy, the growth of investments and also the growth of exports. One without another, and that's what we've had a chance to listen to here is unacceptable, risky and dangerous politics. And that is why I really support a conservative policy because increasing the deficit of the state budget with the potential of an economy that is not impressive in terms of competitiveness in challenging world markets is something that needs to be taken into account. Sure, I see that, you've speeded me up something might be, and I would say this, I'd skip some parts of the exposure, I'd stick to the next one on the finish line. Which is the explicit goal of the Croatian National Bank. If, as said, price stability policy is the only objective then I would simply comment on it is not comprehensive enough, it is not a sufficiently comprehensive goal and I think that this goal should nevertheless be redefined a little bit and included in it some other elements that are important for growth, development and long-term macro-economic stability. Elements of governance of these processes, monetary policy certainly your jurisdiction, economic policy, social policy, export policy, fiscal policy in a well-designed management system according to the defined function of the objective is impossible to achieve the objectives set with limited management elements. And that's why I think you should take care of it. And finally the conclusion. It is unacceptable, in everything I have said so far, you do not have to agree with me, but to make a report to the Croatian National Bank of the Croatian Parliament without conclusion, I would say irresponsibly to the Croatian Parliament's institution. Not having a report with a conclusion proves exactly what I said lack of feeling for the goal, lack of feeling for the elements standing in the mood to manage the objectives set. A document without a conclusion is a document that gives an assessment that means finishing up at every university, at every serious job it is an important observation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4202	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4203	I would briefly comment on the restrictive, conservative policy, and on the budget, the deficit of the state budget. We see ourselves that the problem is large imports, that the problem is small exports, that the problem is energy. Construction of freight wagons in railways, construction of locomotives for passenger or freight, construction or modernisation of two refineries, construction of a hydro power plant is not a question of state budget, is not a question of government budget deficits. Those are market categories. These are complete structural changes that we made in the railways and in the INA, in HEP not until the end but HEP is also not on the state budget. And then that answer is very simple. In the name of the Croatian state, we have a bad manager, a bad master, because there is simply no such investment, and these investments trigger the mass of the Croatian industry. And that's the problem, and let's not send messages that are the problem of government deficits. No, this is the problem of irresponsible management of the highest Croatian values and that is why we have imports of energy instead of exports, so we have no development and modernisation of railways and therefore we have neither electricity production nor modern refineries. If we had settled this, our foreign trade relations would have been completely different. Our simple and economic growth data would be something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4204	The answer to the line, Mr. Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4205	I still have to say, dear Mr. Linic, that I am surprised by the level of lack of understanding of the essence of the problem. Investments do not necessarily mean economic growth. In each country, in each company, there are limited potentials of borrowing and investment in each family. Therefore, it exists in the Croatian state in both HEP and other companies. It is an illusion that the concentration of investments without control of what is the effectiveness of these investments, what is the cost-effectiveness of these investments, what is the potential of these investments in terms of the return of invested funds, such a policy is very dangerous and can, unfortunately, bring the Republic of Croatia into that position where countries that have not thought professionally and professionally. We can debate here politically, but in any case make sure that those who understand it better than you and I do in the developed and serious countries of the European Union do not make such basic macroeconomic investment mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4206	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4207	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian National Bank and the Ministry of Finance. A half-year report by the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2007 published a number of data from the macro-economic environment that gave a presentation of monetary policy, monetary movements, state finances, money markets and capital. As well as basic indicators of business of the Croatian National Bank. The report seems to me a little too general.../The speaker shut down and turned it back on./... Someone's out. State Institute for Statistics, Financial Agency, Economic Institute in Zagreb, Croatian Association of Economists and many others, and too few indicators about the work of the Croatian National Bank. Of course, basic indicators of the success of the business of the Croatian National Bank have been shown through financial reports, the balance sheet on 30.6.2008 from which data on the assets, the capital of the Croatian National Bank are read. In addition to the financial reports, data on the costs of operations have been provided, but without the cost structure. It is unclear why in the half-year report of the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2007 there are many places and data from the third quarter of the year about which there have been many speeches today, which have not been particularly demonstrated, but are intertwined with data from the first half of 2007 and data discrepancies during the reporting period, from the third quarter of the reader's reporting period further confuses and makes it more difficult to see this report fully. There is also a clear lack of full explanation of fixed rate policy, stimulating foreign borrowing and fostering consumption, but also a lack of data on direct control of business banks. However, since it is a semi-annual report from the Croatian National Bank that the Croatian Parliament only takes note of, I support the acceptance of the conclusions on receiving the report on the work of the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4208	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4209	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice Governor and representatives of the Croatian National Bank. I'd like to start my presentation on this subject with actually one reference to a finding that was expressed here on behalf of a club and not imagining, not imagining myself as an expert in this problem, I'd like to make a few points that I think are primarily of interest to, if that's what you can say under the quotes of "ordinary people", i.e. for the public. Someone here said that I do not know the HDZ club or government in a certain way wants to reduce the independence of the Croatian National Bank. What's that read from? I really want to know what it's read from. From where? And I would ask the question – why? In particular, taking into account that every statement and that day in this House can be used if someone wants to be a source of interest to the Republic of Croatia. So I think there's really no room for that statement. According to the Constitution, the Croatian National Bank is a central bank and is responsible for currency stability and general liquidity of payments abroad and country, an independent institution. However, it responds in its own way to the Croatian Assembly, so to us MPs. And I believe that Mr. Vice Governor feels good in this House and I feel really good when I listen to his exposure, but also the presentation of others, however, of course I disagree with all the views. The Croatian National Bank also has a statute that confirms the Croatian Parliament, therefore the Croatian Parliament has something to say, although sometimes these exhibitions do not always have to be and as I said earlier, from those who fully understand this issue. The Croatian National Bank supports the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia, which is what I think and say, in line with the principles of open economy and free competition. Therefore, the Croatian National Bank and the Croatian government are doing the same job, working on the same. We're doing it here, too. When I was saying how, actually, when we're talking here that every word is spoken is very important and that we're actually talking to ourselves and to our colleagues, but also to the public. I think it is very important because so many times I would have said politics in a certain way and talked about the state of the moment in monetary policy, but generally in the economy in Croatia. I would say what the Croatian National Bank as an independent institution says about certain elements, and in order not to paraphrasise I will literally quote from the introduction of some fact. Thus, among other things here, the annual rate of real GDP growth of 6.8% achieved in the first semester of 2007 is significantly higher than the rate in the same period of the last year. So that's one good news. That's one optimistic news, and I say hello. The next allegation, high and stable growth in economic activity, resulted in positive trends in the labour market. In the first nine months, a reduction in registered unemployment rate was observed and the trend in overall employment growth continued. So these are the findings of both Ivan Bagarić and any of us here individuals but independent institutions of the Croatian National Bank. Also, watching says the registered unemployment rate decreases by 16.7% as recorded in December 2006 to 14.1 in September 2007. The period from January to June, but also the beginning of the second part of 2007 marked the annual real growth of gross earnings. It's also a finding that really raises optimism. Already on page three very briefly. Unlike temporary imbalances in the money market, capital market developments in the first half of 2007 were positive, so the largest half-year share turnover was recorded during that period, with a significant increase in the number of transactions and the highest value of the Crobex stock index. With the expected increase in investment investors' assets and inflows of risk capital from abroad, the very strong increase in the interest of the general public in direct investment in domestic capital markets has also contributed greatly. In addition to the equity market, dynamic movements marked the first six months of 2007 on the Croatian debt market. A particularly significant event for the Croatian capital market was also the final completion of the process of joining the Varazdin Stock Exchange in Zagreb in March 2007. Finally, the annual foreign debt growth of the Republic of Croatia slowed in the first half of 2007 to the same period in 2006 or finally, during the first half of 2007, largely positive fiscal developments were achieved as a result of strong growth in economic activity, a high annual growth of 13.1%) which was twice as fast as expenditure growth, etc. It's a picture of one side of the medal. And that's something we can't ignore. On the other hand, this is all what I would say about optimism and in favour of the optimism of the overall economic situation in the Republic of Croatia and stability both economically and socially. On the other hand, everything we've heard here, and what it says in favor of that part that we don't want, that we don't, that we don't accept and that we're going to deal with here, the present representatives of the bank, which is that threatening inflation, etc. Also from the institution of this institution, and not from my own arbitrary quote, it states neatly that the annual rate of consumer price inflation at the end of 2006 was 2.0% down to the end of the second quarter to 1.9%, but in the third quarter its growth significantly accelerated and it reached 3.9% in September. In addition, the acceleration of price increases has been recorded,... which enter into a basket for the calculation of basic inflation, the most powerful part of which is the contribution of rising prices of bread and cereal products, tobacco, footwear and services whose prices are freely formed on the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the first 9 months of this year, there was an acceleration in the annual growth of administratively regulated prices, which contributed most to the rise in oil prices. This has led to an increase in prices of crude oil on the world market whose pressures on the rise of domestic oil derivatives prices have somewhat eased the appreciation of the kuna exchange rate towards the US dollar as well as the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which since May of this year reduced excise duties on all types of unleaded motor gasoline. Therefore, in the environment in which we are, in the global environment in which we are, we are dealing together with both the Government and the Croatian People's Bank but also us here. Here is the rating we heard from Mr. Vice Governor that the Croatian banking system is stable is very important to me. I say hello. As he said, the exchange rate will be stable in the future. It's final. Contrary to an environment we cannot influence, but with one professional independent institution such as the Croatian National Bank and the Government, therefore, I would say one co-authority when it comes to joint performance, efforts and efforts to preserve economic and social stability, I am, in fact, reading from this report and optimism. However, returning to that finding that, in fact, by establishing the HDZ Club of Representatives or some MPs who have expressed a different position on this report, and on the basis of our powers, I am now holding the right to be to the extent and critical because I am here as a representative, and here present representatives of the Croatian National Bank are those who submit the report to us and from this position of course that we can be restrained on some issues here which has no impact whatsoever on the independence of the Croatian National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4210	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4211	Hello, dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We heard... Mr. President, I apologize. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. President. We heard about the impact, the strong impact of mortgage loans in America on the growth of the Croatian economy, the price of energy. But that's all true. However, there are some facts. The fact is that the total external debt of Croatia is made public by a private increase of 40% in four years. That's a fact. The fact is that due to a certain policy of restrictive borrowing, many companies, which is also said by MP Škoro, are open to borrowing outside. It's also a fact and a fact. The fact is that a large part of this borrowing is the borrowing due to public spending. Generally for consumption. You must know that a good part of economic growth has grown in this year because of what? For paying cash to the pensioners. It's pure money that went into circulation. It's spending money. Debt is good if it's investment, if you're in charge of re-investment, to make money. But it's bad if it's consumer. What happens now in Croatia is that the Ministry of Finance or the Minister gives instructions to the CNB. And that's legitimate. But I must warn what it looks like from a small company's perspective? What's going on with the small company? It is not possible because it is not a creditor to be heavily in charge abroad. The interest rates due to this restrictive policy are high and must be fairly unfavourable in debt here. On the other hand, the postponement of payments that is now in effect, which is suitable for large businesses, does not exactly suit small businesses. And they're due to a delay in payment, due to high interest rates, because of that restrictive policy in position what? Finally, to increase the prices of your services. That's an increase called inflation. On the other hand, monetary policy by acting on the exchange rate of kuna restrictively, which means strengthening the kuna towards the euro means that the exporter must sell its product outside more expensively. If he has to sell it more expensive, that means the demand for that product is lower. It is automatically smaller and production here in Croatia, less employment, and this risks more. That risk is the same risk in this part of which I spoke to small businesses. And now what do we have as final by-products and invoices? On one side of the bank, foreign-owned banks have recorded record profits. And she's record this year. On the other hand, exporters have been demoted and the external trade balance is the most negative, minus 13 billion. On the other hand, small businesses are at increased risk. So I can't grow strongly in Croatia. And I wonder, then, Minister, the Ministry of Finance who is now being protected in this process, do foreign banks make profits or Croatian exporters and small businessmen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4212	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4213	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. My predecessors mainly discussed the macroeconomic aspects of the Croatian National Bank's report for the first half of 2007. I'll be a little more specific. So I'm going to talk about the indicators of the banking system's operations in the first half of 2007 as one segment of this integrated report that I'm only going to say on the way that methodological and conceptually excellent is done. So in mid-2007, the banking sector in Croatia consisted of 33 banks and 5 savings banks. The total assets or assets of the banking sector amounted to 331 billion kuna, 98% of which were assets of the commercial banks and only 2% of the assets of the aforementioned five housing savings. We have six large banks, four medium and twenty and three small ones. These six large banks account for 80% of the total banking assets, four medium 12% and 23 small banks 8% of the bank's assets. According to the majority domestic property, we have seventeen banks and in the majority foreign ownership of sixteen banks, with all six large ones in foreign ownership, three mediums in foreign ownership and seven small ones. Banks in majority domestic ownership are subject to less than 10% of total bank assets while banks on the majority side are covered by over 90% of the total assets of banks. And how did the banks do in the first half of 2007? The banks, of course, were successful in the past debates. Before tax, it was €2.5 billion and was more than 20% higher than in the first half of 2006. So, with the get available owners. And what of the successful business of these banks has the Croatian state? The Croatian state received a profit tax paid by banks to the state budget of 435 million kuna or profits after taxing these banks amount to 2 billion kuna, of which as much as 1.8 billion or 87% of the waste on large banks. Of the thirty-three banks, thirty-one banks did positive business while the two banks showed a negative financial result, so the total loss of only 20 million kuna and two small banks whose assets account for only 0.3% of the total assets of all banks. But to not only talk about dry figures, we will inhale them with a little daily Croatian life. So, banks have been doing very well, and the Croatian economy has been doing the best since 1990. In one word, both banks and the economy profited. How, however, does this successful story fit Croatian citizens? Did they profit from what would actually be logical and expected. Namely, where the perception that citizens are living worse and worse, that their standard falls which is not in line with success and economy and banks. In fact, the structure of the banking pass shows that the most important source of bank financing is the deposits of the population, which account for more than half of the total banking potential. However, despite the fact that they are still the most important source of banking potential, their importance has been reduced year by falling to the lowest level in mid-2007 in the last five years. It is now 52%, it is visible from this report. One of the most important reasons for this reduction is the fact that Croatian citizens change traditional savings habits and turn to more modern types of savings such as investment in securities and investment funds and so on. Another equally important reason for reducing citizens' representation in the banking potential is that of course the decline in the standards of most of the population. According to the Croatian National Bank, at the end of 2007, Croatian citizens had saved a total of 124 billion kunas in business banks. And another six billion kuna were in savings, nine billion in insurance houses, 21 billion in pension funds, and 25 billion in investment funds, or it's a total of 185 billion kuna. It's an interesting structure of savings in banks. In fact, of the 124 billion 17 billion is on current and giro accounts and 107 billion on savings accounts, of which 86 billion are worth of savings, hence the savings that has been immobilized within a longer period of time. In doing so, it should be said that Croatian citizens still prefer savings in foreign exchanges compared to Kunska's savings. So that ratio is 78% in favour of foreign exchange savings to 22% in kunas and that high share of foreign exchange savings is the basic reason for the solid exchange rate that Vice Governor Vujčić spoke of. If we split the total amount saved from 185 billion kuna to all Croatian citizens, it turns out that each saved about 5 thousand 600 euros, of which 3 thousand 800 euros in banks and another thousand 800 euros in other financial institutions. In this place we move from statistics to real life. That's where the famous sarma story begins, so one of them eats meat and the other one wants it so that on average everyone eats charm. It would be ideal for all Croatian citizens to save, but unfortunately not. Saves less than half, 42%. So, not every other one. Thus, if a total savings amount of $185 billion is divided into only those who save the average saved amount is increased to over 13,000 per capita. However, we all know very well that all 42% of our savings have not saved 13,000 euros. Most of them have significantly less than that and only a small number of them only around 15% have far more than that amount. And as the wisdom of the people teaches us that money lies clear that those who have much more will have much more and those who do not have will have to be in debt, therefore they will have even less and unfortunately live even harder. So the data on saving is one side of life's medals that's nicer. On the other hand, those ugly ones are loans or debts of Croatian citizens. As I said in advance from the Croatian National Bank report, it is evident that the importance of saving citizens in the overall financial potential of banks falls. By contrast, the amount of bank loans granted to the population is constantly growing so that at the end of 2007, it reaches 113 billion kuna and has drawn quite close to the amount of savings. I'm only comparing bank savings and bank loans here because even though citizens save in savings and funds, they're mostly in banks and lease houses. In fact, in Croatia, everyone has one money and the other debt. A small number of citizens have large resources and a large number of citizens unfortunately live on debt. And make some kind of conclusion. In the story of successful banks and a successful economy, it seems that only citizens have drawn a thicker end. In part, the large distribution of Croatian citizens is primarily conditioned by the unfair distribution of the national wealth of the 1990s in conversion and privatisation. And these relationships in savings and debt are only one of the consequences and such distributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4214	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4215	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank, Mr. Secretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here, today we have indeed heard many and different thoughts about the report in question, about the half-year Report of the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2007. And I can say, what is visible, that there were not so many cross-thinkings and that a single common thread was going through almost all the thinking and debates, which is that there was a lot of data in this mid-term report from the 3rd quarter of 2007. It's in itself not at all controversial. Because too many times have passed, however, little consistency is lost due to the very name of the Report. So my suggestion would be that, perhaps, it would be better if those data were singled out and specifically described those relating to the third quarter of 2007 compared to the first half of 2007. And why isn't that a problem? Well, it's not a problem because according to the Croatian National Bank Act. The Croatian National Bank is required twice a year, at least twice a year to report to the Croatian Parliament. But she really didn't attribute a way or a time to report it. Therefore, there was no reason and could be freely called this Report for the period from 1.1 to 30.9. In 2007, and then there wouldn't be any problem. In the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, I pointed out a few things, stating first that, and what is undeniable, it is also necessary to make clear and show the indicators of the macroeconomic environment, but which are a little too broad and in large numbers, something that we consider to be the most important has been ignored. It is indisputable that these indicators are necessary in a single report, but I am also pleased that the vice governor is Dr. Vujicic understood the well-intentioned message and already here in front of this House of Highs said that in the annual report, everything we have seen and here we have stated as a remark that the report would be more complete if it contained some other information he promised to be in the annual report. Thus, it is none, no one could understand the perception of these shortcomings as some attempt to influence the independence of the Croatian National Bank, but indeed to consider that this very professionally written report would be even more credible, more quality and actually more complete. For example, when I was talking about the international reserves of the Croatian National Bank, it is really understandable that the place on how to manage these reserves is a place in one of these reports. Certainly before the Work Report, say housing cooperatives or savings banks, which account for 0.5% of the total assets of the Croatian National Bank, while international foreign reserves account for 97% of the total income of the Croatian National Bank. Of course, the place is both about one and the other, and it depends on their importance and contains as much in the report as these particular factors are important. I'm also pleased by the fact that Mr. Vice Governor Dr. Vujicic stated here that Slovenia has already adjusted to a minimum reserve rate which we have also warned on behalf of the HDZ Club as a central bank. And of course it is necessary to systematically prepare for such preparation, with one medium-term plan. And yes, it is undeniable that any sudden change, especially in the economy, causes a certain shock. Thus, the same sudden change and those mandatory rates of reserve would cause also a certain shock. But I would stress that the Republic of Slovenia has been systematically preparing and systematically reducing the minimum reserve rate before entering, and it is not and will not just do so after entering the European Union. That is why I would understand one explanation and an explanation would be needed in the annual report when this adjustment will take place and within which time it will take place. It would not be good if the process of reducing the mandatory reserve of business banks was reduced rapidly and only after entering the European Union. It is good that we have already started and that there is one exact process by which the mandatory rate will be reduced to the required 2% and adapted to European standards. I would be pleased to see it begin as soon as possible, as this would also allow for the development of the Croatian economy and would directly affect the reduction of interest rates and the reduction of capital prices, in the capital market in Croatia. And so did Mr. Vice Governor, dr. Vujčić stressed that he accepts suggestions and that the report will certainly include the report on the supervision carried out, the direct supervision of Croatian business banks, which I think is really necessary. And that such a report will be in the annual report, which I believe won't and will take a long time to discuss again in this House of Commons. The fact that those pessimistic indications about the rate of inflation will not be realized is also a joyous fact. He also stressed that by the end of 2008, the level of inflation rate will fall below 5%. This really indicates that it will not be as pessimistic as it was announced. Otherwise, reasons at the rate of inflation are necessary and necessary. However, I would point out that if someone in the public announces inflation then, on the basis of this, all economic factors are automatically responding and include in their production prices the effects and announced inflation and, in fact, the effect of the inflation rate is multiple, which certainly does not contribute to economic development. So here I am, and in my personal name, saying that I support the conclusion that this report of the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2007 will be accepted, i.e. to accept the knowledge and joy and again the fact that the annual report will accept everything we have well-intentioned as well as seen as shortcomings in this existing report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4216	Thank you very much. Does the deputy governor want it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. At 3:00 p.m., we will proceed with the third point of the government's report on ZERP. Have a good one. Bon appetit! I'll see you at 3:00. Thank you very much. Half-year report by the Croatian National Bank for the 1st half-year 2007 The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: It takes note of the half-yearly report of the Croatian National Bank for the 1st half-year of 2007. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? Thank you. Abstained one, as far as I can tell. I find that most votes with 127 votes are against this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4219	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here we are on another occasion when parties' views on issues that are important to Croatia will face. Both issues that are on the agenda and the dilemma that has been created these days and these weeks. The European Union or ZERP are important for Croatia. I will say that at the beginning on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community. ZERP is important for Croatia. It falls into the ranks of national interests. Croatia's accession to the European Union is an absolute national interest. If we have ahead of us, and we cannot ignore the course of history since the 1990s, then we can know what it means to enter Croatia into Euro-Atlantic integration. Then we can know that for this goal that has never been questioned in Croatia we have always been ready to submit again and all that belongs to the qualification to come into that status. Since the beginning, since the 1990s, since the collapse of Yugoslavia, the creation of an independent Croatia. Croatia had a clear view of these two goals. We had it in the Homeland War, we had it in release, we had it in restoration, we had it in the international affirmation of Croatia. Here we are today a step away from full membership in the NATO alliance. The NATO alliance today after the fall of communism and the disappearance of the bipolar division of the world above all Europe, and that is what we are interested in is no longer just a military alliance. It is, but it's not just like it was during the Cold War anymore. NATO is today an association that shares common values such as freedom, democracy, the rule of law, the social market economy and other similar values. The Croatian ladies and gentlemen share these values together with NATO members and with members of the European Union the other association we wish to join. The policy we've been leading over the past 18 years with smaller deviations from this government or that government, but it's generally led in that direction. There was no government, I dare say that because I was also a participant and minister or deputy minister in various governments until the prime minister of the Croatian government's high office. I dare say no government has moved from this course and from these goals to this day. I don't want to talk about ZERP, and I'm glad the Parliament voted that a united debate is being held, and I'm not going to go into history as the decision of the ZERP has taken place. It came in 2003, but let's let go of the reasons, the initiators and their reasons aside and the way that any party has thus set itself up. If the debate goes that way, we from the government and us from the HDZ coalition are ready to make our contribution and that debate. I personally believe she's not useful. But if necessary, my God, we're here to cross the spear to express myself picturesquely. I'll just say one word about it. In the full 10 years since the 1990s, from the first victory of the Croatian Democratic Community in the elections to the loss of elections on January 3rd, so for the full 10 years in which HDZ ruled, it managed the Croatian will of Croatian voters, HDZ did not make a decision, or the government in a different political system, the semi-presidential system, so it implies both the behaviour and the decisions and thinking of the late president. Francis Tudjman, he never came into a situation to make a decision like this. Have we considered her? We did. Several times between us and after the Storm, so when we freed the central parts of Croatia, when we were also sanctioned by the European Union by the freezing of the PHARE programme and the beginning of the agreement that we were working on, there was another agreement than today's SAA. But even then, we made no decision to declare not a ZERP, but an economic zone. And for the sake of all of our representatives here, I want to say something and for those who watch us through Croatian television or listen to us through other media, we cannot deny the right to that party and that policy that led Croatia to independence, which Croatia has defended, all together but someone has led it. Which led to such a policy that we could peacefully integrate Croatia's Podunavlje into the constitutional legal order of the country, we cannot deny that she was aware of national interests without wanting to implement them. So the assessment of Tudjman and us at the time was that we were not going to declare an economic zone, an economic zone or some similar zone like ZERP, and no one can deny us the right, or the fact that we were and that we defended our national interest. Now we're where we are. I'm skipping the period from 2003 to today. I'm skipping the period, if you encourage him, we'll get involved in the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Anticevic, I didn't hear you, so if you could repeat. ... But I'd love to hear what she has to say to me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Would you like to hear the same? ... Here's what they'd like to hear. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I'm going to skip the period again, from 2003 to today. I'm skipping because I don't want to go into the debate, and if you want to go into such discussions, we're ready and we're going to answer exactly as it was. So today we stand before the dilemma to stay and insist on the ZERP, in its application to the Member States of the European Union or to speed up negotiations with the European Union. We from the Croatian Democratic Community and from the Croatian government propose to choose this second decision, to speed up negotiations with the European Union in a way that Croatia ends negotiations with the European Union by summer 2009. We think that's possible. The government is ready to do whatever it has to do to achieve that goal. And that is why we will join and support the HDZ Club's proposal on amendments and additions to the ZERP Decision that you have just accepted on the benches, if there is the readiness of other clubs and other parties to join, that perhaps a compromise solution finds a joint proposal to amend the decision, the doors of the Croatian Democratic Community are open, the government will support it and we can move on. If it doesn't exist, we'll go with our proposal and whoever stands for that proposal will raise your hand, whoever doesn't will raise your hand against it. In any case, I do not consider this any dramatic moment, I believe that our duty is sometimes to make difficult decisions, we have made them in several situations and much harder, both in the 90s and after 2000s and so far, we will likely make them in the future, there will be even more difficult decisions on the way to the European Union, on the way towards the conclusion of negotiations with the European Union of difficult chapters, of some reforms that we must implement not only for the sake of membership in the European Union but for our own sake. And that's why for the end. If we make a decision today that we are in order to continue the accelerated negotiations with the European Union, then we have one perspective that is clear, which is at hand, which is on the horizon. If we do not make such a decision we will remain in the situation in which our neighbourhood is located, and for this situation we would not want Croatia to be found, we would also like to see the whole political situation stabilised permanently throughout the region as soon as possible. But Croatia cannot and has no right to waste time and we cannot be part of the problem of Southeast Europe. We don't want it, we don't deserve it, and we won't be it. And here with full responsibility I want to give words to both the representatives and the public. Croatia has the right to move forward and end its negotiations by the year. She can, we are prepared for this, and after the invitation we will receive in Bucharest for the NATO Alliance, we expect a technical procedure that will last several months, perhaps 6, 7, 8, 9, but we expect NATO membership, so in early 2009 and in the summer at the latest by the end of this commission, we expect to conclude negotiations with the European Union. We believe that Croatia can do this, that it deserves it. I too ask today for the support of the Croatian Parliament for such a decision. I'm asking for the support of the Croatian public. Yes, of course we should also say that ZERP remains our interest and that in this decision that today, presented by the HDZ, is contained and that we want to and must continue negotiations with interested countries, it is two countries – Italy and Slovenia and the European Commission, on all aspects of the ecological and fishing zone. This Decision does not give up ZERP, does not suspend ZERP but will not temporarily apply it to the Member States until the agreement with the European Union, I quote the conclusions of the General Affairs Council of the European Union or the Council of Foreign Ministers, where it says that Croatia is called not to apply the ZERP to the Member States until an agreement is reached in the European spirit. So, according to the deal, we'll go. What's the deal? It will be a deal primarily concentrated on the whole area, but with an emphasis on the apple cauldron, fishermen and all those who know what it is about know how important it is. And secondly, we will insist, and we can do so today during the debate and supplement the conclusions because some clubs have reported about, that Croatian fishermen in all segments, in all respects equally with all European Union fishermen. So today we don't conclude one episode, but we continue it but in the European spirit and we have two, two parallel directions. One is the acceleration of negotiations with the European Union, with a clear goal of ending the summer, the month, two, there, in 2009 and negotiations with countries that are interested plus the European Commission on ZERP, with an emphasis on the apple cauldron and others. I expect that the debate will be in this direction, I look forward to the debate, and I expect the Parliament to accept this decision from the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4220	Thank you very much. We first have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then a correction of an incorrect assumption. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4221	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! Article 207 has been injured in which it is clear that only the chairman gives a word when anyone can speak in the Croatian Parliament, and this cannot be taken over by the prime minister regardless of what is behind the pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4222	It's exactly 207. Very correct. But someone asked a question from the bench. Also, you shouldn't interrupt the speaker in the debate, so it was mutual, friendly pitching, clearly. Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by Mr. Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4223	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister began his speech and, through his speech, highlighted the dilemma of ZERP or the European Union. I believe that this is an incorrect allegation for the simple reason that the ZERP or the economic belt is not part of the legal property of the European Union and is not the subject of any part of the chapter with which Croatia negotiates with the European Union or is not part of the political conditions that Croatia had to fulfil in order to become a candidate at all, as well as a member of the European Union. So it's about other things I'll talk about when I talk about in the debate. It is therefore an incorrect allegation that it is a dilemma of the ZERP or of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4224	That's right, you have the right to your opinion. This second part of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision extending the jurisdiction to be discussed with this first. Does the motionary's representative want to explain this? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate and it's the first club of IDS. ... Excuse me! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4225	On behalf of the SDP club, after hearing Prime Minister Sanader's speech, we're looking for a break of 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4226	After a speech by the government's president, the SDP club requested a 20-minute break. Also the HDZ Club, the HNS... The president of the HNS club, Mr. Lesar, too. Is there more? Mr. Cain's IDS. Hebrang, Lesar, Cain, HSLS and HSS. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I'm setting a break of 20 minutes. We'll continue at 16 and 10. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We're continuing the session. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4228	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It's an injury to Article 254. Rules of Procedure on the organisation of the presence of representatives of associations of citizens, NGOs and citizens of observers at sessions. I remind you that in the morning of the Chamber of Commerce and representatives of environmental associations, the fishermen would have asked to attend today's debate. They were told from the Secretariat of the Parliament that they had no place and were rejected. I think that democratic standards in the previous Parliament's meetings, regardless of who was acting, allowed the general presence of various associations, so there is no reason for representatives of the fishermen who are in the city to sit for five minutes from the Parliament to really not come and attend this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4229	I'm gonna question this thing. It's the first time I've heard of her. You'll be notified. Ladies and gentlemen, the six clubs have asked for a break, and I've been informed by the SDP club that they don't want to talk about it now, but that they're going to talk as a club. Do the other representatives of the clubs who asked for a break want to have five minutes to go by their rules of procedure? I see no one's answering. Thank you very much. It means the consultations were successful because no one objected to anything. Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4230	Yes, now after this, I really don't know why this break at all and why this dramaturgy that was slowly emerging. Maybe it's for those who smoke, yeah. Dear gentlemen. Like all of you and I, I also follow every spoken word of ZERP. Unlike the vast majority of you here, I'm kind of living this ZERP, and I'll explain later and how. The more I follow, I won't say I'm disgusted, but the more it bothers me that the credibility of Croatian politics was sometimes left, was right. I don't think that's how Croatia is run. Thus, neither the opposition should behave as in the case of the ZERP, nor the government, nor the media, nor the NGO. I think it simply harms Croatia. It is clear that the indignity for this situation at this time is to the greatest extent on the one who runs the government and there is no dilemma, which he had to say regardless of the elections I will be against because what did not go after Racan's hand in 2003, which did not follow my hand in 2004, will certainly not come to me or anyone else in 2008. So, I repeat again. The answer to this situation is, above all, whoever is at the head of the government and who has changed the position of ZERP four times over the past four years. Finally, a myth was created from ZERP that lasted seventy-two hours, if any moment was applied at all. ... Sorry, days. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, seventy-two days. On the other hand, when I remember that the proposal of ZERP in 2006 was proposed jointly by both SDP and HSS, that the proposal was jointly defended by Minister Pankretic here and Vice-President of the Assembly Mr Mimica himself so that we could all benefit from friendly criticism. That notion of friendly criticism, gentlemen, I don't underestimate when there was 91, 92, 93 no one dared in this country to say the name of Comrade Tito, to welcome NOB fighters with "friends and friends", which was regularly done by Damir Kajin in the Partisan meetings and, for God's sake, here in the Parliament. What do I mean by that? For this situation around ZERP, both the ruling opposition and the media who tried to bring someone to power, the others to take down power through their projections. Do you remember those silly questions about ZERP that we had to answer in the election campaign? I have the right to speak that way. Why? Because Damir Cain in front of the IDS club has always been about the same positions, not the positions that harm the country, because through this politics, this plaything that hurts the country. And through this play the most perils Istria which is most likely with the city of Zagreb and contributes to the state budget and then to our salaries. I recalled in 2006 when HSS, the SDP of 15.12, submitted a joint proposal on ZERP that Barroso literally told President Mesic "If you declare ZERP you will be in Turkey's position.". I was saying that in 15.12.2006, I quote: "If ZERP is delayed until 1.1.2008 a new government will come and delay that ZERP again. It wouldn't just be the government that's anti-European.". That's what I said back then, look at the phonograms from that time. And that's why I said I had the right to speak like this. I think it's also enough with this political ping-pong between the opposition that will be in power and other times those who are authorities etc. Because it's not the future. I also call on journalists to publish these too speaking political elites around ZERP. Who here would get a passing grade? Clearly, even journalists won't do it, because they live from each other. More specifically, those who are in power or who will be in power the next day. And that says Croatia has a far bigger problem than ZERP. This is the theme of the title and of Europe. But before I say anything about it, I was on a Slovenian show with Mr Pankretić here around ZERP. It was 4.1 this year. On the other hand, they were Kacin, Jelincic, Podobnik, etc. And that's when I was about to say I bet on one salary that you future agriculture ministers, Mr Pankretic, will raise your hand to abolish ZERP. And that's how it's gonna be. Who suffers the most through this political play? I claim to be the most suffering of the Istrians. The same ones that, in some ways, contribute most to this budget. There's no one more than Istrian who'd like that ZERP to be declared. Why? Because our shores are next to Italy, Slovenia is the most vulnerable. But I'll also say no to the gentlemen of Bjelovar, Čakovec, Split, etc. to create a policy in these areas without citizens of those areas. Because you neither feel any of these people, nor can you figure out the consequences of politics, nor can you imagine what the answers will be to neighbouring Slovenia. Istrian from the Croatian part of Istria, for example, the Buzecans can't argue with the Istrian in the Slovenian part of Istria that lives in one Socerga, Kubed, Koper and vice versa. That Koprčan is not going to fight with us Buzekans, and that we are holding the politician in Zagreb or Ljubljana the same thing. We don't usually vote for them. But we were cut off in the meantime by border traffic in Socerga or so the Buzeans would tell the Pozans. That's why he suffers all of northern Istria. Traffic is heading down to Kaštel. The tourist season will be at stake. It's also for the Istrian question of ZERP and don't immediately so Mr. Jambo or some other doubt my loyalty. Because Damir Cain started production in the Buzet brewery, awarded concessions “Kalece”, a Kolec in Piran Bay when no one wanted to do so in the Foreign Ministry and that there was no Cain and Debejuh and in that order would have no problem with just demarcation at sea but also a hectare around Joras' house. But there's also no one who's more involved in good neighbourly relations with those neighbouring states than Damir Cain. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, and I'll give you a phonogram later so you can see how anyone spoke. I said, this is also a debate over Croatia's entry into the European Union and about ZERP. For the Istrians another problem, I would say far more lifeless, and that is the one whom the Deputy Prime Minister Mr Polancec announced in Pula, which concerns the privatisation of the Oilies. Right, Croatian shipbuilding is in huge trouble. It's one of the conditions of Europe. In 2006 alone, 2007 a 4.2 billion kuna went to rehabilitate shipbuilding. The oil didn't get any lip, and I guess that's why it has to be privatized. By that logic, I also hope it won't be, and we'll do everything we can to make sure it doesn't. Because in this country, if you work, then you'll be punished, and if you don't work, then I'll reward you, resuscitate you, finance you. It's just a question of what money? Probably the ones that work. On the other hand, as with any other shipyard in Croatia, either in the European Union can not survive without the help of the state. And finally, no city, no region in Europe is owned by an existing and one shipyard, so I don't think it's going to be in Croatia either because it doesn't just lead to good. One word, those privatisations at this point, I'm afraid of the most. Because once upon a time, the city of Pula had to write off almost half its budget to solve the problem. The problem is about the European Union is, Mr Zubovic, that's the subject, and now a few words about ZERP. I will not quote Freedom, this is the subject of the European Union. What are you laughing at? I'm not going to quote Freedom who was talking about compensation, etc. But I'll say something else. First, what we are doing today does not prejudge the border to Slovenia. I guess that's clear. This is among other things the issue of Croatia's European future, and that is clear. Indeed, without ZERP, Croatia was, yes. Without the European Union at a time when our external debt is 35 billion euros, we will no longer be able to do so. When could we declare ZERP? Before we started using it for political purposes. We always used it before the elections, and it was always supposed to be a political message for two, three votes higher and maybe 24 hours after Italy declared its archaeological belt, or before we signed the Association Agreement. After that, it was over. It was all a political adventure, an adventure that each time brought little damage to Croatia. Finally, I claim ZERP is neither protected by warships nor coast guard. ZERP is protected by the civilian navy, or fishermen. Because where there is a Croatian fisherman there cannot be Slovenian and vice versa or Italian. ZERP is protected by the same good neighbourly policy that you saw with that unfortunate ship that set fire to Rovinj, and before it came to the aid of the sedans from Venice, Trieste, than the Rivers or the Tablet. What is the problem with this Croatian ZERP? I claim largely to our unbelief. We sign everything. In the end, we give it all up and we can't do it anymore. It is clear that the Racan Drnovšek Paraph does not commit because it would be one territorial concession to another country about 150 square miles [150 sq km] of sea. But the agreement is on one side a stone around the door or below which no more Slovenian government will go, or any of the Croatian governments can no longer get close to those conditions. Unlike them, the Croatian side is ready for some arbitration. They know how to go against it. Now, on the other hand, we also come here until 2004, that is, until this signature of Hide Biscevic, which we have claimed is not binding. Well, that's just stories for little kids! We voted first in this Parliament in 2004 that ZERP will not apply to the European Union. 24 hours later, in the company of his Slovenian, Italian colleagues in front of someone in Brussels, Mr Biscevic signed that famous record and we are now saying that this does not produce any effects as far as Croatia is concerned. It's not like he's producing what academic Gjuro Degan says, but he's leading it if we don't stick to these signatures, the political indignation that we're witnessing today. And that's why you're smart in the head. From this fifth gear, we need to reverse it when it comes to ZERP, and I don't think it's going to be a weakness, but it's going to be a responsibility. And finally, when we enter this European space, this ZERP will be part of the European Union's competences and therefore let us agree on the protection of the Adriatic which will bind both Italian and Slovenian and Croatian, etc. Fishermen. What Brussels needs to know, however, is something else. Don't privatize the shipbuilding because it can hardly end well. From ZERP, 5700 professional fishermen live in Croatia at the moment, so many employees are, for example, in one Uljanik in Pula. Since Croatian shipbuilding lives 50,000 directly without members of their families. For the end of Croatia has the right to ZERP, we can declare it. This is what we have said a thousand times so far, our sovereign right which has not declared in the world of only 14 countries, the economic belt has not declared only 27 countries, but Croatia wants to join the European Union. If Croatia didn't want to join the European Union, no one could take that ZERP away from us. But if you want to join the European Union, then you'll have to stick to the signed and promised and that's a matter of civilization. There's just no fraud. The truth in Croatia you can speak one thing, do another thing, sign something, pay some respects, say one thing before the elections, do another thing, deny everything, but in the European Union you should stick to the words according to the Bible, I guess "that was the word at first". And whoever doesn't hold on to it will either pass or pass as Croatia goes. But it is not the government that suffers, neither we, but the people who gave the mandate to those who lead us. So I did correct this decision absolutely, which is now in force, I did stick to the word, against the policy itself, which we heard in Istria "hit ma ZERP not given". I'd be in favor if they'd answer me, who'd have to fuck it up. Those who probably do not think about themselves but think about others, and I am talking about these others who deserve to live with dignity, and Croatia can no longer do this, should not even strengthen to use this dialect in times when external debt is as much as it is, when our trade deficit is what it is, when our exports are what it is and I don't list everything further.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4231	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here is the contribution of this debate to be enriched by 8 corrections. The first is Mr. Boris Kunst's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4232	Dear President, Agent Cain said there was no one left, that there was no one who wanted to use ZERP more than Istrian. What isn't true? ZERP wants the whole of Croatia, but we need to know one thing, the fact. That, apart from our wishes, we should have political wisdom because politics must adapt to time and space, and that is precisely that this government has this political wisdom and that it knows how to set priorities for national at this point. And I'll quote Jakovčić in 8.12.2006 who said "Croatia must activate ZERP, but in agreement with the neighbours because a unilateral decision Croatia would be punished." It means that the Istrians were very careful in 2006 because the president of the IDS said it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4233	Thank you. Correction Mr Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4234	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to correct the incorrect and very offensive quote of fellow Caine, who has spoken in giving lessons to us parliamentary representatives about who can and who does not speak on this subject crediblely. He said among other things: "You from Split don't feel any of these people." No one here has the copyright to count on the fact that they deserve the trust of anyone in advance and that they are the only one who understands the citizens of Croatia and so the ones from Istria and the ones from Split or anywhere. And I'd like to say one more thing. A man is not smart or stupid because of what he lives somewhere but is as smart as he is when he travels to the Croatian Parliament and brings it back to where he came from.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4235	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4236	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Cain has pointed out several incorrect allegations, and I will try to correct them. He said the HSS would drop ZERP. I must remind once again that ZERP was adopted in 2003 at the initiative of the Croatian Peasant Party and the HSS will not give up on ZERP, so you Mr. Kajin will still have to pay Mr. Pankretić. As for the statement that the most damage will be to Istria due to ZERP, I must also point out that Istria has the most damage to Slovenia's ZERP, not to the Croatian ZERP because Croatian ZERP protects our sea and our territory and the Slovenian ZERP extends to the western coast of Istria which is stealing Croatian territory.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4237	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Stipe Gabrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4238	Mr. President, Mr. Cain said that the most suffering is Istria at all, so I would like these Assembly representatives from Slavonia, Dalmatia and the South to say that they find it difficult when they suffer so badly.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4239	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Cain said don't you from Chakovec and list a few more cities, decide and talk about ZERP. It never occurred to me to my colleague Caine, and this is indeed an incorrect allegation, that the Assembly representative from Čakovec has no right to debate and decide on the Adriatic Sea whether it is territorial waters or ZERP. As I can't imagine, I'm taking away my colleague Caine's right to, say, speak of a hydro rent fee in Međimurje or Varazdin or Koprivnica. Such a message is not good, because Istria is its own Adriatic Sea and ZERP as its own, so let them declare ZERP as Istria if that is the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4241	Thank you. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4242	The esteemed colleague has presented a series of incorrect allegations, I'll use time for two. First of all, I quote, "Istrians make the most of their contributions to the budget." I think that the budget is mostly contributed by every resident and resident of Croatia, every citizen and citizen who does his job fairly and consciously, makes a contribution to the budget. And because some of them were lucky that they weren't under occupation and war, and others were, it's not their fault, it's the acquisition of historical circumstances, and I pray that those who contribute to the budget and live in other parts of Croatia are not belittled. The first sentence is actually the greatest,... He says he's a disgrace to whoever's running the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Cain, this government has led Croatia with the help of previous governments, to the return of NATO and Europe, which is for Croatia's benefit. Blamage is for those who work against Croatia, not for the benefit of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4243	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4244	Damir Cain says ZERP has always questioned the credibility of Croatian politics, whether it is left or right and speaks incorrectly. ZERP always questioned the credibility of Croatian politics only if it was right. HDZ and Prime Minister Sanader have changed their position on ZERP four times, depending on whether they demonstrated it at pre-election or post-election times, and the SDP's position on ZERP has always been crystal clear and unchanged since the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4245	And last correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4246	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Cain is incorrectly trying to confirm that Croatia cannot control ZERP, he incorrectly stated that the Italian remorkers were the first to arrive at that Turkish ship that had hawari. That's incorrect. Namely, first he arrived... From the platform, then after him the Oilman. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I thought you'd be proud of that fact that it was these ships that first arrived for help and managed to save that ship from further hawara, but unfortunately here's their contribution you're trying to reduce by telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4247	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. It is up to the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4248	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the interesting thing is that the regionals came forward first for the debate on ZERP, and especially for me to say from Slavonia our sea is drained, so we're interested in the Adriatic and the ZERP problems, so we'll talk about it. Slavonia is not to say directly involved, although as someone has said here, the whole of Croatia is interested in ZERP and what is happening around it, as clearly as it is for entering the European Union, where we actually belong and it has long been where our place was. But the song of our Slavonics also says, "We are the Slavs and Croats of the true", and then we are clearly bothered by some things about ZERP, including blackmails and ultimatums about which I would like to say something and in connection with which I would like to say something. In fact, as Mr Cain said in his 72 days on our heart lies a wound, he began in the verse, so I will continue, early ZERP and everything that is actually an unworthy, unworthy policy brought forth as a Croatian problem in relation to the European Union. I remember, since my history is a hobby, some events from one of our coming closer or further history is when Croatia is on 18 May '41. The year remained with only three islands of Brac, Hvar and Pag, and on behalf of the new world order. Let us forget that time, because now is not the time to talk about it, but when we talk about blackmails and ultimatums, especially those coming from the Italian and Slovenian sides, and also from the European Commission, and about the statement by the representatives of the EC, the European Commission or the ZERP or the accelerated process of entry and negotiations for entry into the European Union, then I must say that this is what we have actually received or that we have shown a beating. Now, what the world has been practicing and applying towards us for a long time, so the principle of beating and carrots remains, if we accept the ZERP's braking remains a carrot. I would ask myself what quality it is, how much and when it will be delivered, because this is the only framework that will speed up the process of negotiations with the EU. It seems to me that we are back in our old positions when we do not actually specify what we need, what we need and what we expect from the European Union. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister also talked about it, and he also spoke about, therefore, the fisheries agreement and to make promises regarding our fishermen' agreement, and we will keep an eye on and keep an eye on it. When I came here as a representative of the HDSSB for a pay phone, I must clearly say that in this programme of government, we have read clearly in the four-year, basic objectives of the Government on page 5 that the Government programme is systematically implementing and developing Adriatic policy with the aim of creating synergies between all factors and activities related to the use of the potential of the Adriatic Sea, coast and island, with the application of the highest global standards of environmental protection. I think that's where it's actually hiding, and what's said about, or what ZERP prescribes. Whoever wrote this clearly gives up a little bit, it seems to me, but it bothers me more than saying who comes from Slavonski Brod, whether it's from Čakovec as Mr. Lesar says, that we and Slavonic ZERP, whom we will also have to solve, and I'm afraid the Slavons will find it difficult to agree to any blackmail and ultimatums. Here I've taken out some things like this here, the baringrad hell, it's still not our sovereignty over it, so the demarcation of the Danube where we have across, from the left bank of the Danube 11 thousand acres and it's going to come to order and it's going to be either a beating or a carrot. We have to be prepared to have to deal with it. I would like us not to solve this way, I would like us to be credible in that case and that what is Croatian to say remains Croatian, that is, Slavonic or srijemic this time. Since I heard again today the text of the oath spoken by Mrs Borzan, it will take up the progress and improvement of the Republic of Croatia. Then, when all the elements are collected, if I were to say this unbelief, as Cain said both left and right, take a little bit of pre-election material that was used very often and take into account what the European Union is in the form of and just before the mentioned carrot which should only be defined so, quantity, quality and delivery time, then clearly that, when we think logically, and when we take into account the words of our oath that we will stand up for the progress and improvement of the Republic of Croatia, I think there will be no doubt that this time we will vote for the EU, with a note to define what it is, what the Prime Minister was talking about. So, in the negotiations, in the agreements, talks with the representatives of the European Commission and the European Union and defines the matter. I'm not saying that ZERP is a sleeve chip that, by pulling back into the sleeve, has to make a choice. But if we have come to talk as equal partners, as polite countries, as countries of old culture and civilization and Croatia and the rest of Europe, then we need to make it clear that there are both deadlines and what is one such agreement on Croatia's accession to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4249	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4250	Your Honor! He'd like to correct his colleague Bora when he was talking about the Slavonia region. In fact, it's about, he should know very well that there's also Baranja and Western Sri Lanka that we can't forget about. And the fact is, these Danube pockets, the whole pockets are also likely to be discussed here at the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4251	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, came in. Here you go1
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4252	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to comment briefly on what Mr. MP said and this is an extremely important matter, and I think we need to clarify it here and in front of the Croatian public that there is no misunderstanding. You said at one point and Slavonia has its own ZERP, that also western Srijem etc., Baranja, Croatian Podunavlje. And then you talked about the still unconfirmed border between Croatia and Serbia. It's not the same. ZERP is not Croatian state territory. And that's an important difference, I know, but so there's no misunderstanding left. That's a big difference. ZERP goes outside, on the other side of territorial waters that are state territory. So ZERP, the area of ZERP and it is important to say for the sake of the Croatian public is not Croatian state territory. If he were, there would be no debate at all. We should not declare ZERP because it would already be in the Croatian state territory system or within the Croatian state territory. Which does not mean the honourable representative, which does not mean that we would not, and that we will not work on it to withdraw and define the exact line of demarcation between Croatia and Serbia. And that's what we've already worked on in the last term, but we need will on both sides. We hope that this will soon happen, that a mixed interstate commission will define the border. Otherwise, I'm going to say our position here right now when you've already raised that question, and let's get him out of here. So it has nothing to do with ZERP's state territory, first. Secondly, we will not agree to the line some propose, not official politics in Belgrade, but some suggest a line in the middle of the Danube River. We cannot agree to this because on the left hand side of the Danube there is much more Croatian territory than Serbia has on the right hand side of the Danube. That's one thing. And secondly, here you may have heard through the news, today he was the Montenegrin prime minister on an official visit to Croatia. We also have a temporary agreement in Prelaka that we inherited and thank God we have reached today the conclusion that both governments form a common commission that should formulate texts for both governments, which is that we go to the International Court of Justice in the Den Hague and that the issue is finally resolved. The temporary regime in Prevlaca was drawn up during both the CRS and the former government before us, the time, so two reasons why it should be corrected, made permanent, the first thing its character is temporary, is the title. And secondly, it was done with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia that no longer exists. Today, an agreement has been reached, and this is something very important that the two governments will form a common, common commission, a mixed commission that will prepare to go to the International Court of Justice in Den Hague to establish the exact border between Croatia and Montenegro at sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4253	Thank you. We have three corrections, or yes, three corrections, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4254	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister! I hope that this border on the Danube and Sava will be resolved very quickly in the interest, Mr. Chehok, that it will be dealt with very quickly in the way you present it now, although this problem lasts long. But this is now not the topic of this agenda point. I'd just remind you, correct your inaccuracies. We're not declaring ZERP today. He's been declared. This is only a proposal to postpone or delay the use of ZERP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4255	It's been declared and so far it's been legal. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4256	It is likely that Mr. Prime Minister will accept this small correction of the wrong assumption, and for the next time it is an international law institute. It means when we talk about the Danube border. On the contrary, the Serbian side is demanding that the border go not in the middle of the Danube as you said it was going in the middle of a waterway. In any case, the middle or middle of the waterway is out of the question [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4257	We still have one correction, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4258	When I spoke of this Slavonic ZERP, I spoke metaphorically. So I didn't say it was exactly the same situation as our Adriatic ZERP. But I had to mention this because it certainly came, as you yourself said, to the issues and to the discussions where they will most likely find participation or will participate in the debate and the European Commission, clearly as either the mediator or the interested party. Furthermore, when you said there was no good will, so they need two sides to talk, then obviously there's no ZERP on the other side, or third party, we only have one party, I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4259	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. It's the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4260	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am not as well known as any ZERP expert, nor have I talked about this subject so far in this assembly. ZERP's expert was one of our colleagues in the last session, so unfortunately, he's gone. This is Dr. Tonci Tadic, who may have been of all those involved in this business was the greatest enthusiast and the greatest ZERP defender if I can say so and did not do it for political reasons but did it for pure conviction. And those who did not do so for pure conviction but for other reasons in the past term and in this mandate were many. And so let me remind you that this will be the fourth decision regarding the ZERP we will vote in this House. In 2003, Tomcic's first legacy could be said in 2004, 2006 and now this one. And that shows one policy which, in relation to this important issue, did not go to the cycle even because, by any chance, the cycle was even possible to get away with it rather than going a step forward two steps back. And now we're where we are, in some kind of fake EU dilemma or ZERP because that dilemma is really fake. There is no doubt whether or not we will be in the EU, at least it seems to me to be for all those who represent Croatian citizens in this House and I believe also beyond it, regardless of what possible political spectrum they belonged to. I also believe that there is no dilemma whether we want to protect the ecological and fishing interests of not only Croatia but all those who are used or can be used, or whether we need to preserve the Adriatic and its sea, or its wealth. In that sense, and we could say that from this policy one step forward two steps back when everything is summed up and sum up what we have on one side and on the other, actually sums up the damage. It's a pity collection because if we ask if we've stepped up the fleet, we haven't. If we ask to what extent, what we did with strengthening the Coast Guard and applying the Coast Guard Act, we'll see that we haven't done much. If we talk about strengthening environmental instruments, we'll see that we've done even less. If we talk about what we've done to develop relations with our neighbors and talk to them and negotiate this important matter we'll also see that we haven't done much but actually get worse, that's the other side. And that we are actually having an unexplained, unspeakable discussion with some of the ZERP's neighbours instead of discussing the serious content of ZERP's borders, and that's the problem. So for me, question "ZERP or not?" It's not a dilemma, it's just a question of what. This kind of declaration that we're going to change in content every other year and the decision is not a dilemma. If we could change so far, let's go and change now. We could do so when we introduced this kind of political relativism into our own political behaviour. For me, the question is whether we're going to behave differently after this, whether we're going to approach it differently or not after this. So, if there's one thing I can say. We have created high expectations among the people in one place, if I may say so to our people in a place where we may not understand why it is, as some like myself say, that it is a myth. It's not about the bribe. It is one place where Croatian citizens have become sensitive to what is happening to them, how they are treated and how they are guided. With the experience of the 91st policy here, which includes territorial disputes, which includes political disputes, which includes various disputes, which includes, of course, the fact that it is in the sphere of finance, and in the sphere of production, and in many other spheres, we have lost those elements of sovereignty that we expected to have and now people at one moment say that we can at least have at that point which is important to us not knowing and not understanding what it can mean. And that's why I wouldn't call it easy because it's a question of the feeling of a man in Croatia who says respect us, respect some of our feelings, if we've lost a lot more in all these years, it's been taken away from us a lot more than we've received. Maybe it's not the most rational behavior, especially in this place, but we created it. And so the more important question for me is how we're going to treat people's feelings than how we're going to deal with what we voted once and change, so we're going to change again. And that's why the more important question for me is how we're going to treat colleagues from the HSS who also have the right to say it's a question and our feelings. In that sense, for us from the SDSS club, one of the things should be teaching, and that is that neither this Assembly nor the public are being manipulated anymore in the way they manipulated themselves with these decisions about ZERP. Indeed, there are other things to win the election match. There are other things where you can get political points. But this way in the old matrix to play on people's national feelings, and then at one point to tell Europe is more important than that. It's not a European policy. Forgive me for saying that. We do not enter Europe to give up that national feeling. Because neither the Germans nor the Italians nor the French are doing it, but we are going in to act Europeanly and to have European values that we will share together with others as an equal people and if I may remind you of that. And we've got ourselves into a situation where our citizens feel like we're acting differently. For me and my party colleagues, it is important that when we change this decision today, and we will have to change it, unfortunately, or revise it in one part of it. The question is, what are we going to do until the ZERP is applied temporarily to the member states of the European Union? Are we going to do the same thing we did from 2003 to today or are we going to do something else? If we do the same thing, then it really doesn't make any sense to change anything or to swear at anything and to say that the EU is closer or more important to us than ZERP or vice versa. So instead of standing with our hands cut, it seems to me that we have to because it's going to be waiting for us to start resuscitating our relations with our neighbors anyway. At no point in our foreign policy have we had such a bad state of relations with neighbors either from one side, either as we have now. Either way, we don't have a relationship, or we have bad relationships. Therefore, we want to join with our western neighbours with the Italians, with Slovenians a kind of serious dialogue on common issues, and ZERP is a common issue. Even when we say it isn't. But we have to admit that they are in some sense stronger than we are in both fishing and in each other. Unfortunately, the Slovenians are as strong as I've heard of us in the potential of ecological protection, what little seas they have. So, if we're going to change something in practical terms of words, I absolutely agree that from today on we draw the line and say that we are going forward and that this does not block the negotiations that we need to unblock when it comes to relations with the Union. In order for this to be the case, and to have some guarantees in this respect, the SDSS Club will propose an amendment to the proposal for a decision proposed by the HDZ Club, or by its colleagues from the HDZ, which contains one component, which is that our Government is creating an obligation to establish an ecological maximum when it comes to the ZERP. And at the same time, to identify the species from the bottom that are particularly important and particularly important and for which we do not have the obligations that arise from what the Commission calls on us to contribute to protecting or stopping the ecological devastation of the Adriatic, uncontrollable excerpts, while at the same time to our negotiators who, as this decision says in the European spirit, will find themselves negotiating and providing an opportunity to really know what an ecological maximum is and what the European Commission should return to Croatia after the quotas are established. Or someone else will do it for us. In other words, instead of having a declarative ZERP, we of the SDSS suggest that we have a practical, meaningful, working, procedural if I can say so. It is not simply a question of the flag that we will stab at any apple, in any other part of the Adriatic. It is a matter of day-to-day work and the day-to-day process to protect what is our right and what is of general interest when it comes to the Adriatic. Therefore, the SDSS may not be happy and happy to support the amendment of this decision. We'd rather that didn't happen. But we will support it by hoping that after this, the line will be drawn and that in this sense we will act politically so that people in Croatia on the one hand will not be convinced that the Union is the only benefit, and on the other hand we will create real stops for Euroscepticism and for resistance to the European Union's policy, and this is one such situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4261	Thank you very much. Mr. Bozidar Kalmeta, Minister on behalf of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4262	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here's what I needed to do after Mr. Pupovac's presentation and some more things to say about this topic that we're discussing here today. I'll repeat one thing we all know, but as far as I can tell from the debate, it's often either accidental or not marginalized or abandoned. So, the fact is that ZERP exists, that ZERP has been notified in the United Nations since 2004, and that ZERP will remain in force after today's session of the Croatian Parliament. It is likely to be suspended for the member states of the European Union. But for all other members, for all other countries, it will remain in force and it is not irrelevant to say. I think it's very important to say. For example, why is that, why am I saying that? We had a recent case mentioned here today by some fellow MPs and the Und Adriatic ship that set fire to the ZERP and we were then, by chance, a Turkish ship. So, it's not a ship of a country that is a member of the European Union, but if it were the same, then we intervened in the ZERP. We have the right to charge all the costs of shutting down, I don't know any other expenses incurred during processing to say so to that ship. But we also had a guarantee, we got a guarantee, bank guarantees if there was any pollution in ZERP that we had the right to charge for it. I therefore cite this as an example that ZERP is functioning, that ZERP is in force and will remain in force except for the Member States of the European Union. We ZERP are monitoring and we will continue to monitor ZERP. I'm going to say here what you also know that we have 89 ships, 16 ships, 6 aircraft, radar systems, etc. etc. which will continue to monitor the area of ZERP. ZERP could have declared himself, there was a speech here today, he could have declared himself since '82. A year. So in 82, there was a Convention on the Law of the Sea and since then could or could not depend on the assessment of each country in particular, this ZERP declared or not. Some countries have declared it before, some are not today. So it's a matter of assessing every country that's better for her and not for her. Fishermen are certainly important, but fishermen are important and many other things that have been solved or solved so far or will be resolved. Fishing boats, which is something that is therefore a tool, the first tool that a fisherman must have is a fishing boat and these fishing boats have so far been built and there I am correcting a colleague of Pupovac, not one but 46 fishing vessels were built by that 30 % of the grants provided by the Government, i.e. three ministries, the Ministry of the Sea, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Agriculture. So far, there have been two competitions and the value of these ships has been around 500 million kunas so far. These are modern, fast, powerful ships that can hunt without a problem in the ZERP. Because the problem with our fishermen was that there was no ship he could compete with, that he would come to that area at all and go hunting. So this program is developing, 46 ships are repeated, built. This programme is going on and there will probably be additional benefits for the construction of such fishing vessels, we will clearly discuss it with colleagues from other ministries and we will certainly give extra benefits to fishermen that, up to 10% of our participation, they have a HBOR loan with practically subsidized interest, but we will also give additional benefits. This year, 217 million kunas were provided for the implementation of the ZERP in the state budget, with 116 million kunas for coast guard, for the purchase of new ships, that is, all necessary and 101 million for the fishing fleet and for the fishing ports. So last year there was about 76 million, so two and a half times more money in the budget is foreseen this year than it was last year for ZERP. Fishing ports also have something very important for fishermen. The port "Torpedo" in Rijeka was built fishing, fishing port was built in Split in northern port, built in Lamjana, Komiža, Umag, Postira, Biograd etc. these are now all the following locations where fishing ports will be built, which is also important for fishermen. For example, the price of the undertaking. The fishing boats are symbolic. It is 10% of what other ships are paying, so 10% of that price is paid by fishermen when they tie their ships. We have brought, that is, this Parliament has adopted an amendment to the Law on Maritime Goods, where in fact, in every port of county importance, a bond must be provided for a number of fishing vessels. The county port administrations will deliver such proposals and must deliver to the minister, the minister will give consent to this, and today there have been talks with the fishermen here in Zagreb. We have also amended the rules on the minimum number of crew members needed for safe navigation, allowing the minimum number of crew members required for national navigation to be sufficient for sailing in the ZERP even though it is therefore a more open sea, etc. etc. These were all the demands of the fishermen that were made. By amending the Regulations on boats and yachts, it is possible for fishing vessels that have been able to sail only in the territorial sea until now to sail in the ZERP without any change. And that was one request from a bunch of fishermen, fishermen who fish both in our waters and in ZERP. So it's done. So a whole series of things have been done to make it easier for fishermen to access ZERP at all so that they can hunt in ZERP, so that they can be present throughout this series of measures. Our mission is to continue to strengthen Croatia's coast guard in any case. You know that the law has been passed, that will soon come into force, etc. etc. It continues to strengthen the fishing fleet, and I said before that we would give additional benefits to the construction of that fishing fleet for every fisherman who is interested in it. Speed up the construction of fishing ports, it's also something, it's very important and important. And certainly in negotiations with the European Union, we must try as best to protect those zones as possible, such as the Apple Roll, which were important habitats for the freezing of fish, etc. etc. Here, Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4263	Thank you. We've got corrections. Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4264	Dear Mr. President, Minister Kalmeta said that with this decision proposed by HDZ, ZERP will be suspended. Prime Minister Sanader said earlier that this decision proposed by HDZ would delay ZERP. I'm correcting the incorrect quote of one of them, and let them agree who wasn't telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4265	Correction, Mrs. Tanya Verbatt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4266	Thank you. I would like to correct Minister Calmete's allegations that the fishing port, i.e. the gat in Umag, is being built by the funds that you have foreseen in the budget. These are EU funds from the PHARE programme and the city of Umag has waited for years for funding from the state budget that has been systematically rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4267	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4268	So I'm correcting an incorrect allegation that Mr. Calmett stated when he said that the huge resources in the state budget were secured for the application of the ZERP and I'm correcting this: "We'll continue to do so, we'll oversee exactly ZERP". That's what the minister says. But with this delay decision, we won't monitor anything, and eventually we can just watch, and our local fishermen can just go to their fishermen and watch the Italians hunt our fish.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4269	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4270	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. In his presentation, Mr. Minister said the government's growing funds are for the reconstruction and strengthening of the fishing fleet. If you remember, I have proposed an amendment proposing an increase in subsidies to fishermen for the restoration and strengthening of the fishing fleet and I did not really understand why the proposal for a state budget made the aid to fishermen, to strengthen the fishing fleet was 12 times smaller than last year. And I'm asking now why those funds are 12 times smaller.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4271	It's not a correction. It's a question. It's Mrs. Vesna Pusic, the club of representatives of the HNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will say a few words on behalf of the HNS Club, a party which certainly has been a European orientation, and in some ways has been a political initiator of the European orientation and of the European route of Croatia. Croatia is in one situation at the moment where it was not to be found. The opening prime minister spoke, in fact I would say more on behalf of the HDZ than on behalf of the Government, that those in HDZ were having second thoughts about whether or not an economic belt should be declared, i.e. some variant of the economic belt. Many of us and within the parties, as well as here in the Parliament in the last 10 years, have had doubts about the declaration of ZERP, precisely because of sensitive relations with neighbours and precisely because of Croatia's fundamental strategic objective, which is to join the European Union on the one hand and on the other, precisely because of the irrefutable need to protect the ecological Adriatic and the other side of the introduction of order into fishing on the Adriatic. Finally, in different variations and with different degrees of enthusiasm, we decided to declare the ZERP. The rational reasons for declaring ZERP were, of course, the need for ecological protection and the need to introduce order into fisheries in the Adriatic. Both of these things stand today, and by whatever name you mention them, and whatever you call them, the two needs will remain, and will remain our permanent task. The realization of this ZERP, as we talked about on several occasions when it was discussed, assumed very intense and lively diplomatic activity in agreement with the neighbours. We have not learned this in the last few months or even in the last year, we knew this from the very beginning and the realization of the ZERP assumed the realization of the Parliament's conclusions, to remind those who did not sit there in the last term, the conclusions proposed by the HNS Club and adopted in 15.12.2006, which were spoken about the need for construction, i.e. training of fishing ports, the construction of fishing fleets, the construction of refrigerants, the construction of fish markets and the strengthening of coastguards. Let me remind you of the decisions needed to make, therefore, the 9 decisions needed to strengthen and put in place the Coast Guard so far have been proposed and adopted by two. Both of these preconditions, therefore diplomatic activity and equipment of Croatian fisheries and coast guard equipment, so that the entire idea of ZERP, the content of ZERP can function are not done. We have seen that two bilateral problems are the issue of borders in relation to Slovenia and the issue of fishing in relation to Italy, that they have turned into inaction, the fact that nothing has been done or at least anything effective has been done, that they have turned into a bigger political problem and an obstacle to Croatia's progress towards the European Union. It wasn't supposed to happen, it wasn't necessary to happen, but unfortunately it happened. We cannot and should not close our eyes before this, but that does not mean that we should not seek responsibility for what has happened. At this moment, negotiations with the European Union have stopped. We can call it a suspension, we can call it a break, we can call it in different ways, but we're currently in a blockade. One part could be determined regardless of the ZERP, but important progress, what we need under these conditions cannot be achieved. For this stasis, there are several reasons, but the situation and the old, old policy rule that if one problem is not solved for a long time, it is, in principle, turning the snow chest into a growing problem, eventually all eyes focus on ZERP and ZERP has become a symbol and the reason why Croatia cannot progress on its path towards the European Union. As far as the Union itself is concerned, I think there is no one in this assembly who does not know and understands that it is a matter of the long-term security of this country, that it is a matter of the long-term functioning of the institutions of this country and that it is a matter of guarantee to the extent that there is a guarantee in politics at all, a civilised Croatian state on a long-term basis. We have always spoken about the European Union as to whether there are two components, one is the quality of the negotiations and another is the time or speed of negotiations and we have discussed whether it is more important quality or more important speed. Meanwhile, a matter of time, time or speed has become an essential component, or an essential factor in the quality of the negotiations. The real time frame for us has now become the most ambitious time frame. Objectively speaking Croatia as its goal and as its real chance, ambitious, but impossible has 10 months next year, so the beginning, the end of September and the beginning of October 2009 as the time until which negotiations should be completed. In order for this to be feasible, Croatia must open all chapters in 2008. Therefore, it must concentrate on opening all chapters because the criteria and preconditions and reforms needed to open the chapters are the minimum to be able to talk at all. Therefore, there are eight, nine months ahead of us in which we must carry out this task if we are to ensure that Croatia has any chance of achieving its long-term strategic goal. Even when it comes to, so when it comes to any question, and even when it comes to this issue that is an integral part of our debate today, which is ZERP, it is our interest to sit at the table where it is decided. It is our interest to participate in the decision-making and protection of the European Union's common waters. I remind you that, apart from Greece, all European Union maritime countries have some kind of declared belt. Thus, that opportunity and the possibility stand before us. We don't have guarantees today, it's true, that we'll be able to complete the negotiations by October 2009, but we have a chance and we have to take that chance, we have to seize that chance, and the HNS surely advocates trying to take advantage of this country's well-being. Given the increased instability in the region, I believe that the additional argument of Croatia's accelerated path and the realisation of its EU membership objective is. On the other hand, it is absolutely in our interest, but not just to us, and to our neighbours to realize the content of ZERP. What's ZERP? ZERP is not a question of our identity, ZERP is not a question of our ability and strength to tap our hands from the table. ZERP is environmental protection in the Adriatic and order in fishing. We should, and we did not, launch a joint large environmental project in agreement and in cooperation with our Italian neighbours, invite all other neighbours who go out to the Adriatic Sea and run for European funds that would surely get for a joint ecological programme in the Adriatic. We didn't do that. The only thing worse than the fact that you didn't do something when you were supposed to is not to do it in the time that's ahead of us. We are faced with a situation that we did not need to get to the news and which the HNS Club directly considers responsible for this government, as well as the past HDZ Government, that we must choose whether we will now implement the ZERP or we will speed up or remove what has become an obstacle to our faster progress towards the European Union. We consider you a responsible Croatian government for bringing us before a choice you should not have brought us before. But we also consider ourselves responsible enough to support the implementation of the strategic objective, which is to seize the opportunity for the European Union with a two-minute warning. One is in the proposal for a decision made by the HDZ Club, we will give an amendment to correct an injustice that has been in force so far, which is that at the time ZERP was suspended, it has not applied to fishermen from the Member States of the European Union, but has applied to Croatian fishermen, since Croatian fishermen are not fishermen of a Member State of the European Union. Therefore, we will give the amendment and ask for your support to enter into the decision a point that will say that the status of Croatian fishermen and anyone who fishes on the Adriatic is equal to the status of European Union fishermen. We in HNS should not be convinced of the importance of the European Union for Croatia. I'd rather say it was us who had assured you of that need for years. And I'm glad we made it at least partially. But colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition. If you are looking for our support to solve the unpleasant and difficult situation that you have brought us into, if you are counting on our rationality, if you are counting on our clear picture of what Croatian strategic interests are, I ask you to have a common clear picture in the government and in the ruling coalition. Because at the moment you seek consensus, you seek opposition support for one position, you must provide support for your coalition partners in the government. Therefore, please, if you have a clear view of the HDZ, I am pleased that HDZ has taken this position and I accept that, but you must have a clear view of the ruling majority and a clear view of the single Croatian government, that the Croatian Government as a whole recognises this Croatian interest and is asking for our support from this position. And in that case you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4273	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4274	Thank you very much. The Honorable colleague said literally: "We have taught you from the ruling party that you should go to the European Union." ... Convinced you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're not colleagues. This is incorrect, you did not convince us because the only party that entered the European Community in its basic act of establishing the Croatian Democratic Community in 1989 under the 7th point stood out: "Croatia enters the European Community after a founded independent state." the European Community, today's European Union. So it wasn't you who assured us but we were proud of it long before you thought about the European Union, and we are proud of it because right now we are ahead of the goal of achieving our tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4275	National Minority Representatives Club Mr. Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4276	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The National Minority Representatives Club supports the decision to amend the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea. That is clear, and there is no particular reason for the debate to be conducted. However, since today we have had a lot of things that simply encourages the rest of us from the minority club to simply talk about some aspects of this decision. First of all, we believe that the question of ZERP or the European Union is an artificial doubt for the simple reason that the European Union has no alternative. On the other hand, by entering Croatia as well as neighbouring countries bordering Croatia into the European Union, we simply enter into one matrix that generates both economic, democratic and every other development. Therefore, it is not only our interest here in Croatia to develop the consciousness of Croatian citizens, but we must in a certain way encourage our neighbours to think about what will eventually be a reality. Mr. Damir Cain, in his presentation, shared the packs with both the government and the media, and the opposition, in some way calling them not to be consistent. And I think different. I think the government did the same thing in government. The opposition must be strong. Better to have a good opposition, a strong opposition than something that can't do you any good. And since we live in democracy, it's normal for the media to use all the space to talk about all of this in a dramatic way sometimes. For example, someone mentioned that this doubt lasts for seventy - two days. Well, the Paris community lasted seventy-two days and you remember how much we learned, and it's in some way the driver of many changes in Europe, I dare say in the world. I am sorry, I am truly sorry to say that many of us forget that with Slovenia, with Italy, with Serbia, Montenegro mentioned during today's debate almost everyone forgets that there is one state, 100 kilometers of border with the country and that border in most cases was the border and is the border that connects the peoples and the two countries. It is, of course, Bosnia and Herzegovina with which we have more than a thousand kilometers. I would like to see how strongly we are discussing ZERP and its role not to miss out on any other details, especially here I see that Marin Jurjevic listens to me very carefully and thank him. I expected that representatives from the south of Croatia would speak more strongly about a problem that is holding me back personally. It is an una railway, it is a railway connecting Zagreb with Split, with the south, it is a railway that is more expensive than the one we are using now, it is a railway that has been modernised and that would in some ways enable us to develop significantly more intensively and far more successful management. I'd say it again, we'll back it up. But this whole debate reminded me for a moment of one Bosniak writer, you probably heard him, Mehmed Selimovic, better known under the pseudonym Mesa Selimovic. In his novel "Dervis and Death", there is an interesting debate between Hasan Bosniak and Dervis, and just as we are facing hard here today, and we express our views, so they are having a heated debate. Hassan was disappointed by the way the dervis reacts, and he said, "The two of us won't be able to agree because you're ready to disagree with me in advance.". Then Dervis replied, "No, we will agree because we both think." And I believe that all of us here think for ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4277	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4278	Here, just one rectification of the wrong quote. Mr. Shemso Tankovic called me around in a way that I shared the packs with a little left, a little right, but I was actually talking about political credibility. You can be Mr. Shemso Tankovic in pre-election time for a political group and then support the HDZ government. But it's been going on for a while, but sooner or later it's going to come up. And finally, what I was talking about. .../President: What is the correction?...... That there are things where there should be no opposition and position, when it should simply be responsible for this country, for our credibility, for not knowing about one of its policies. When there is simply no harm to be done, and I claim that we knew that by treating ZERP like this, we simply can never consume it and apply it in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4279	Mr. Representative, this has nothing to do with correcting the incorrect allegations, but you've explained your point of view and we do it all the time. Please! Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4280	That's why Mr. President has this. Says Mr. Tankovic that representatives from the south, please nice, should talk more about the Unjska railway. The representatives of the south should not, but will speak, for they have not yet come to order. And the representatives from the south spoke very well when HDZ wanted the highway, the car ran across Bosnia. And as far as the UN railway is concerned, and that's what you're talking about, there's been a ferati last week, and now we're talking about ZERP, so it's gonna be interesting how you're going to vote on that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4281	This is also a classic example of misuse of an incorrect quote. You haven't corrected a single word of Mr. Shemsu Tankovic, but you've pollemized with him about the UN railway and the highway. You're replicating what you're not entitled to. Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4282	Mr. President, Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This is the art of artist of Croatian avant-garde artist Mr. Martek. I'll talk about her later. Here, we've put on a belt, we've tied our seat belts, metaphorically speaking, we've been dangerous, but I'm afraid our pants and pants have been down a long time, and we haven't had them in a long time, that our pants and pants have been on our ankles for a long time despite all our belts. I therefore not only metaphorically, but physically did not put on today's solidarity belt with the ZERP that we are going to do today. The metaphorically speaking, of course, is that, but ZERP is actually also like the metaphor belt of this belt, which we are most often afraid of. I think our pants and pants fell off the moment we decided to introduce that legal instrument and institute at all but also to postpone it immediately. Because everything that is right and political is being introduced to delay immediately, and then to delay several times, or fourfold, is actually being delayed in itself and it is saying to itself that the job in which our intentions were not sincere to the citizens or to the fishermen and those who live in the area and are being used in the area of ZERP, as well as to the citizens as a whole. And we have indeed come today to choose although I also think it is a false devil's dilemma of ZERP or the European Union. We have come to the conclusion that one of our sovereign rights must come to an end so that we can exercise some other rights. I fully agree with the prime minister whether it is a party rhetoric or above the party prime ministerial that it should not be entered into what was happening here since 2003, as I am fully convinced that the intention of my colleagues from the Croatian Peasant Party was sincere when they proposed the introduction of the ZERP even today, if they were against or restrained, I believe they will do so for principled reasons. Those who have been these five years are in fact the only consistent advocates to apply and implement a protected eco-fishing belt. We all have to ask ourselves, I repeat, I'm not going back to the past to look for the guilty and the reasons. But we all have to ask ourselves what we have managed to do in these five years, even if we put aside the economic belt. Let's try to think about it. Let's do one of our own little personal, party political accounts, and then, of course, the calculation of both Parliament and Government, for example, what we did in this part of the ecological component. How many of those dams or membranes or belts that can, for example, prevent swelling or spread of fat stains or do not give God other fluids that would spill or pour into the hawari. Let's think about it completely realizing what Minister Calmeta was talking about that a lot has been bought. But what we could have done in five years. Unfortunately, we have not done enough, or we can say without false euphemism that we have done too little. And today we stand before this false, devilly dilemma or even because the devil often deceives himself. You know that well or at least he's obviously fooling himself, maybe we've brought ourselves into such a state that we have to discuss this and actually choose between the greater evil and the lesser evil, between the consistent application of the ZERP and the negotiations and the entry into the European Union, or the faster pace of negotiations with European institutions. This false devil's dilemma is what Kant would say, in fact, it's just curtsy, immatureness that's not the consequence of age, but it's the result of maturation, not maturation. On the other hand, if we accept a delay or a delay in application, we must tell Croatian citizens quite frankly, I would like to say so from this pay phone. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with this delay in ZERP will no longer be. Because by the end of negotiations in the spirit of the European Union actually means ad infinitum, that is, by the time we finish negotiations, we will have full membership, and we will no longer be able to declare the ZERP, because it will be worth all the other rules, the rules of supranational, our waters will become common waters, or international waters. So that part that falls under the ZERP legal regime today, that part I say falls under the ZERP legal regime today. Therefore, we will not be able to determine the rules of the game on our own, autonomously, even less automatically. Therefore, it should be said to Croatian citizens that with this delay of application, in fact, by the end of the negotiations in spirit, by the European spirit, in fact, this means that ZERP will never apply to the member states of the European Union again. On the other hand, when we become full members, the common rules of the game will apply, both in fishing and in all other matters. What has particularly hurt us as a party, as a liberal party, and what particularly bothers us and what is tickling, even if we take aside the pressures to do so, or to postpone the application of the economic belt, is the fact that, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we have to admit that we have no right to even the ecological component, that we do not even have the right to declare it, that even this right is being challenged and that even what is beyond the legal gain of the European Union, outside of the aquis, which is, therefore, an ecological component which is our only right, this is actually becoming something that we give up. We should have, if we could, and certainly we could, raised our level of equipment, our level of logistics, our organisational level so that we could delay the challenges and needs of environmental protection, i.e. environmental protection and sea protection, should at least try diplomatic negotiations, insist on the environmental component. This is exactly how we are, if I may say so, we dropped those metaphoric belts and pants, both our socks are on our ankles. It could've been just one of us, less shame, less visible, less naked and alone under this stormy sky. So this is a question that we could have politically influenced, diplomatically influenced, and it's certainly something that we can't praise the government before, or this government now, the ecological component is beyond the legal gain, and we should have insisted on doing it more stubbornly, be more cunning and put things more harshly. In the end, I would like to say that we do not need to be fooled by this decision, we are not going to get too much reception and not too much Europe is going to put you on your chest. The key reason for the postponement of the use of ZERP and the key reason for pressure is not the issue of protecting fishing, it is not a matter of protecting the sea and the environment, but rather a matter of borders. That is what our colleagues from Slovenia said very clearly, the Italians said. This is what Europe said, however, between lines or even literally, explicits. Therefore, we will remain open to border issues, and we can also have someone say or give way to the borders or the European Union in a few months. We don't have any guarantee that this will calm down or go down or even a little nationalist tendencies in some neighbouring countries. We have no guarantee that in diplomatic negotiations it will be more beneficial and that it will actually make less of an obstacle for us in European institutions. And that is why I think that with what we are talking about today, our message to the government and our help as Parliament regardless of the parties now, left, right, central, should be in order to make sure from now on, bilaterally and multilaterally, that we agree either around the borders or start immediately with all the necessary instruments of arbitration so that we do not happen again in key moments, we must put ourselves in a false hell of a dilemma. I believe that we can do this, I believe that the prime minister and diplomacy have enough skills and competence to agree with Slovenians first and foremost on time so that we do not really have to be in the Zeit note again and that we have to decide this way again. And finally just to explain why this conceptual and alternative act of the government of Marthak. Thus, the Croatian alternative saw Europe 30 years ago, a Europe in which the weapons were hammered at the time, but in which one of the weapons was also a word. So I want to tell you that today's right is also a weapon in someone's hands, and so let's be aware that the right to a stronger, more righteous benefit is an old sophistical trick that we can no longer fall for. The HSLS and HSU Club will support the delay of application, realizing, of course, that at this point it is less evil and that the choice of lesser evil remains evil.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4283	Thank you. Before I give my word to the Prime Minister, we have eight corrections. Mr. Ranko Ostojić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4284	Your Honor, I'm correcting the quote of the esteemed representative of the Czech Republic who said we're going to see ZERP today. I haven't noticed in both materials, nor from the proponents of one and the other in any segment that we're talking today about doping the ZERP. We are talking about some other matters relating to a part of those, i.e. the European Union or members of the Union. So, I don't think there's a speech, and if he's still thinking about taking off his pants more than he did, he should do it at another session.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4285	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4286	Well, Mr. Chehok said we're going to end ZERP today. That's not true. Mr. Chehok, we won't lift the ZERP, you're going to shut it down along with HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4287	Thank you. Like Mr. Ostojic said, no one's taking him out. Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4288	Thank you, Mr. President. If I can get a few incorrect allegations, quickly. It is somewhat unusual, though, that we from the opposition explain to the government, or members of the ruling coalition what is actually happening, but regardless of all the criticism, it is not true that the countries of the European Union do not have a ZERP or some form of protected belt and that we will not be able to have it. I have here material that I will immediately give you and photocopyed where it is shown that, apart from Greece, all members of the European Union have some form of a protected belt of fishing, archaeological, ecological, etc. So it's not true that it's impossible. Secondly, you said this wasn't a question of fish and other things, it was a question of boundaries. That's not true either. With Slovenia, there is both a question and a fear of prejudged borders at sea, and with Italy it is a fish issue and that is why the chapter has been stopped. And I think you were wrong to say that what you're saying is your message to the government. You are the government, so it's HSLS' message to yourself, but for that we don't have to be here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4289	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4290	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, Chehok, has repeatedly said that we are actually going to make ZERP with this decision. That's not true. That decision doesn't say and it's not true. The second thing, he said that our waters would become the waters of the European community. He won't. The territorial sea remains a territorial sea. What is beyond the territorial sea will become community water, but it will also have a obligation to protect and all that we can call today a kind of ZERP, too. So in that sense, there's no point in misleading the public and saying it's going to be something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4291	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4292	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd just like to draw attention to a statement from Mr. Chehok. He said the ZERP's dictation, however, is said here about non-application to members of the European Union, which in fact confirms the fact that the ZEPR remains in force because the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea states says that the ZERP refers to both non-Adriatic and non-Mediterranean countries which have been increasingly, literally, increasing the fishing pressure of non-Adriatic and non-Mediterranean states, including the use of so-called. the ship's factory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4293	Thank you. Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4294	Despite the fact that I welcome the figurative way of speaking, I think he should be precise in this House, so if someone's underpants are down, I see that my colleagues and colleagues haven't burned their underpants. If the gentleman was referring to the ruling coalition, I can agree, but I'd rather say the masks are down, not the underpants.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4295	It is also not a correction to the incorrect assumption, but an expression of opinion. Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Chehok said a lot incorrectly. That's what I'd even say as he used to. He said here that many things would have been like this, if they had been done before. I ask him why he doesn't sit in the Croatian Parliament more regularly, so he might be able to contribute. And the belt, the fishing belt we're talking about, I think it keeps some values. I don't know what's keeping his belt.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4297	Thank you. It's also polemic. Mr. Representative, Mr. Chehok's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4298	Mr. President, Article 209 has been injured. Mr. Zubovic, of course, according to his old custom.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4299	What article? I'm not okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4300	209. He didn't fix anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4301	The 209th article speaks of the right to mention it, but.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4302	So, he did not correct any incorrect allegations, but disqualified according to his old custom. I'd probably sit more often if there were fewer dirty agents like him.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4303	Gentlemen, I thought Mr. Zubovic delivered his opinion, and you have incorrectly raised a staff on the injury of the Rules of Procedure, because I guess I'm explaining it for the hundredth time. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to explain this here in the Rules of Procedure, determines the right of the MP to warn of the violation of the Rules of Procedure of a member who is obliged as soon as he starts talking about it, to indicate which injured article of the Rules of Procedure, and no injured article of the Rules of Procedure which speaks of the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think that's clear. Don't put me in this situation to answer and talk all the time, but it's obvious I'm not being listened to for what it's about. There's Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4304	Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect quote of my colleagues, the Czecho, that they've all burned our pants, too. I'm not going to show it, but it appears that colleagues in the Czech Republic dropped their pants and pants because they convinced the citizens of a coalition called the coalition.eu along with the HSS, that they would defend ZERP to the extreme limits, and today he has betrayed his coalition partners, the HSS with whom he entered the Parliament, bowed down to someone else and played the citizens' trust because, among other things, the citizens showed him trust to sit in this House and to defend that programme with the basis he entered, which is the defence of ZERP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4305	Mr. Representative! From the first word to the last word, you abused the institute to correct an incorrect quote, because you were talking about underpants and pants that are not even here at all. It's not a word. This is about ZERP and it is about a proposal for a decision that will eventually change the decision or amend the decision on ZERP. Don't use the institute to correct the incorrect allegations to pollemize, because Mr. Chehok spoke for the club and there's no such thing as a replica, but there's a correction of an incorrect quote that 95% of the MPs here have been misusing from the very beginning and I don't share on the left or on the right or on the middle here part of the assembly. Please kindly extend the unnecessary session of the Assembly using an incorrect institute to correct the incorrect allegations. It's Mr. Josip Frišcic's turn on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4306	Mr. President of the Parliament, vice presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs! I would like to welcome you and express the views of the Croatian Peasant Party when it comes to today's topic of discussion, the topic this party has been working on for years and, above all, to say that ZERP is a Croatian myth or that someone wants to turn it into that. Someone else and others may have myths, but ZERP certainly is not a Croatian myth, because ZERP is 25 thousand square kilometers of sea which, precisely standing, is not and cannot be registered as property of Croatia, but on what basis the International Convention on the Rights of the Sea of the United Nations has been right since 1982. We have decided to defend, protect and manage this half of the sea of the Croatian Adriatic – through ecological and fishing components. We also expressed it as ecological and fishing interests. During the adoption and the debate was also fierce from the very name to what all this matter included, but we were guided by the principle of over 135 countries of the world, and they used their right by means of the convention. This right, it has already been said here and has been reused by all members of the European Union except Greece. If ZERP was not something or protection of the sea, which is attached to national ones, something that should not be protected, which should not be cared for and what should not be debated and what can and should be denied, then certainly 6 European Union countries would not make a decision at the time when they were already members of the European Union. That's why the dilemma that is today is whether and how to behave, set up and behave tomorrow, because we're going to end the debate tonight, but tomorrow we're going to have to get into certain moves, predict and lead a certain action. What we have been saying in front of the Croatian public these days about ZERP, not once I said, we do not read that the background of the messages that have come to us, which are painful and which are... Not anymore, but either, or. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is not a message from the whole of the European Union. This is certainly not a message from all 27 countries, because we have followed the debates of their representatives in Brussels, and many of them have wondered why Croatia has no right to what others have used, the rights they have brought and consumed. But I'm always the advocate of it, every phenomenon needs to give a clear name and last name. If we give him today, tomorrow we won't wander and we won't create any new difficulties. Also, it's already said here, but I think it should be pointed out whether or not someone considers the term I use appropriate or not, but we're being valued. We are valued by two countries of our neighbours. We are valued by Slovenians where it is not only a question of Chapter XIII-fish, but also Chapter XXIV. and XXXI. And that's what we need to talk about. And why is that? Because they are fighting for their interests and beyond what they themselves are aware that they are not their rights, because they too declared their ZERP in 2005. This Parliament has brought a declaration that it does not accept it, because it is only a reminder, it is 650 square kilometers of the sea of the Croatian ZERP. And then even to get into it, they drew what they call a ratified agreement that still has a new 550,000 square miles. That's the subject to be discussed, that's what I'm talking about and in the background of their demands aren't fish, in the background of their demands are borders. And those who speak here today to create very good relationships, I believe that they will take all the steps that we feel here too, because those relationships that are written today and so far, which have been sent to us as a message, are the views from the White Paper on the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. Many of them, when I read it in Croatia, were told that they had little understanding because it was written in Slovenian. And I will read to you only the conclusion that refers to their position on the Piran Bay is one sentence: "It is obvious from the above that the conduct of Slovenian jurisdiction over the entire Piran Bay has never been questionable.". It follows logically that Slovenia has maintained its sovereignty and jurisdiction over the entire Piran Bay. If we now link it to what came three days ago also as a message from Brussels that in its report early next month, Freedom will write that Croatia's task is to resolve the accelerated issue of borders with its neighbours, then believe that we will speak again very quickly on the basis of these views and wonder how to protect our interests. When we talk about the economic component, when we talk about what this area provides economically, then in conversation with fishermen, I have come to indicate that in this area of Croatia's ZERP, 220 thousand tonnes of fish are taken annually, that only 32 thousand tonnes of our fishermen are caught. That's their assessment. Between 200m and 300m euros each year, it takes off from this space. And that's the interest they express, for which our other Italian neighbors fight. And now their right to fight for their interests, to fight for the interests of their fishermen and our right to fight for our interests. It is certain that they are exceeding this figure that I was talking about because other than fish, there are shipyards, services, refrigerators, fuel, etc. and all these are activities that are profitable and which can bring benefits and employ people. We are now in front of an ultimatum or/or. Today it is the ZERP ultimatum or the EU. I wonder and I believe many of you what tomorrow. In front of this home, questions I spoke of will soon come before our government. It's a matter of borders, it's a question of shipbuilding, an issue of electricity, a question of concessions for forest exploitation, a question of agricultural land and its sale to foreigners, sources of drinking water, liberalisation of labour markets, etc. Certainly issues that we must not deal with between authorities-resistance, left-right because you follow the debate. I read all the notes, the discussions that were conducted on the board when the representatives of our neighbours spoke from their discussions are not visible who's left and who's right. Together they have fought to guard and fight for our interests even though they are aware of certain things and do not have the right because they think they would accept the hand of the Croatian government if we cannot as neighbours resolve the borders let us recognise Dan Haag and the court, as they determine we will accept it. We used to and our government was manifested in that direction. One day it is certain that it will be an exit, but they are now searching and saying it is time to compensate us for something Croatia received on 45th, 47th or 48th. I repeat, let everyone defend their rights, we must defend our rights. So all of this, together from one economic context, comes out in a political context, but not by chance. Things are set up in Bruxeless. Because if it were not for the form of pressure on Croatia, then this issue would not be placed in the enlargement directorate but would be in the fisheries directorate. From that we can clearly read what it is, how it is, where we are today. Determination. It is certain that if we are to discuss ZERP individually or the EU will be as in the cover of yesterday's press release "Down ZERP, we are going to the EU.". If we're going to set up tomorrow, I don't know the woods, down the woods, the EU. We have to look at things together. But it won't be enough if we're the only ones in this House who are going to have a debate, point out or don't let God criticize even if that's what the government needs later. We must prepare for things like this not to happen to us, and here we are, as the HSS, ready to make a full contribution. The contribution to the coalition agreement that we have concluded on the occasion of the formation of the government is because we can solve certain things, we can solve if we launch the processes we agreed on. We won't have to leave exploitation through concessions to foreigners if we restructure our Croatian forests and we agreed on that. We will not have to allow such or such conditions in agricultural land if we agree on what we have prepared as a legal solution by forming a long-term management agency for agricultural land together and adopt. And almost every area of this area before there's a problem we can and I think we're responsible and we need to create solutions so that these situations don't happen again, they don't happen. Many say whether HSS is on the European path today or not. I think we've always been. For 104 years, this party has always known what's going on and what's supposed to be going on. And I resolutely reject, some today are trying to create a standoff that we are the euro of skeptics, that we are the euro of ignorants, conservatives, the ones that may have made Sanader wrong when he invited them to be his coalition partners. With a constructive contribution to solving the problem based on the coalition agreement, and in these issues that we are talking about today, I believe that we will prove our credibility. And the credibility is that after the debate the conclusions continue to be realized by a specific programme that we have talked about here. Someone says hello more, someone less. If it hadn't been for 72 days for ZERP, but not 72 days, but for the whole discussion of our commitment that we want to activate and apply it to all the Member States of the European Union, this process that Minister Calmeta was talking about - ship construction, co-financing, would not have been the concern that was put in place and who intervened when and when it comes to environmental protection, and therefore we still need to invest. Someone was talking to the ships, the firemen, because it's obvious, it was Calvary. Don't let God be, but there will be, given the volume of traffic. We need to help our fishermen, build ports of unloaders, build refrigerators because that's what many have told us you don't need. That's what we need, and that's what we're gonna support. And in the end, many were expecting and I know they expect the HSS to be defined when it comes to this matter. The HSS will not support the postponement of the application of the ZERP to the member states of the European Union because it has the initiative to adopt, demand to activate and speak to its voters about this. And those who expect this to lead to the government crisis in Croatia will not come. I want to tell the Prime Minister we have not concluded an agreement on several points of benefit.../President: Finish your colleague. Time is running out. We agreed on which direction to lead in Croatia. With us and without us let him lead, let him evaluate it because it is that reason is needed in policymaking. They have not convinced us by reason that we are wrong about the messages from Europe, and with the heart they are with the Adriatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4307	Thank you very much. It is up to the SDP Club and Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4308	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs, Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The decision to postpone the ZERP will be voted because there is a majority for that. Our initiative to discuss the ZERP in this House and the state of negotiations with the European Union is motivated by other reasons, other impulses, motives for the prime minister, the president of the Croatian government to appear before the Parliament, above all before the Parliament or in front of the Croatian public, and to talk openly about the situation in which Croatia is located, and the situation is next. From ZERP in the way he was experienced in Croatia, in the way the legislator has, and this Parliament has no idea. There's nothing from his full application. From membership in the European Union, i.e. since the end of the negotiations before early autumn 2009, there has also been nothing. So, before full membership and use of all the resources and potentials that can be given to a generation of Croatian citizens by the European Union before 2011 also has nothing. In the opening speech, we heard from the president of the Croatian government a lot of reminiscing from the 1990s, and he prayed, even mentioning the cross-breeding of the diggers that we were not coming back in 2003, 2004 and I am not doing it. Because there are enough grounds for this debate in what happened after 2004. This is primarily the problem of statehood, openness, clarity, honesty and strength to appear before Croatian citizens, in front of Croatian people and to say things openly. I'd call this a double stereo of dishonesty, and that double dishonesty results in the state we're in. First of all, the prime minister was dishonest or his closest associates were dishonest to the European Union and to partners in the European Union. There were very serious words here about some blackmail, about the ultimatum that was set up in Croatia, so I think it is, and otherwise I would say something about it. In 2004, we made a decision in this House, or MPs then decided that ZERP would not apply in a particular segment. The following day, the State Secretary, with the agreement of the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, went to Brussels and agreed and signed some things in Brussels. The basics and that's today and more than obvious. If there has ever been, and there has been a dilemma and there has been a vague basis for the start of Croatia's membership negotiations in the European Union were these agreements – the abandonment of Croatia from ZERP. We didn't know that at first. Now we know completely clearly. The question asked is how long did Mr. Prime Minister know this, how long did he hesitate to say it publicly, and then the other kind of dishonesty, how long did he hesitate to tell the Croatian public, Croatian citizens. What ZERP is in the perception of the average population of this country, the one who cares about ZERP, and we care about everyone. We care about that protection. I've said that once before, perhaps a little patheticly, that we are the only Slavic maritative people. Others are totally maritative, but we are the only Slavic people with a strong maritarian culture. Our great-grandmother's great-grandmothers, great-grandmother's great-grandmothers. And what did we get out of it? We got it so we don't have either of them today. We got it to avoid telling the facts. What's ZERP for us? ZERP is a protection at the time when it was a motive for its adoption, protection from overfishing in that part of the Adriatic where we have the right to declare ZERP. ZERP in the perception of the average man meant Italian numerous ships would stand on this line, and over that line would demand our fishing permission and would pay some compensation for it. What is the task of the statesman? At least that's how I look at it. The task of the statesman is to give some facts. The late Ivica Racan in this House was criticised for paraphrasing the Agreement with the Slovenians. That paraphras and these negotiations were at a certain point done in the best interest. Was that the best effect, was that ideally done? It's a question of a debate that doesn't stop until today. But has the full state responsibility been taken over, is the position taken clearly, are the consequences suffered? They did. I expect the people who lead Croatia, not just the prime minister, to hesitate. So in this situation, we have nothing today in 2008. We have negotiations that will extend until 2009, until the end of 2009, until the end of this European Commission's term of office with full membership in 2011. However, we also have a fact to be told to the Croatian public and with which, but only limitedly, the respected representative of Chehok. The ZERP in the way we've experienced it will no longer be. The restrictions on fishing in the Adriatic in the way we presented it to the Croatian public will no longer be. The regime of the European Union, a regime that is rigorous, carried out with a strong inspection and a regime that for the first time in Croatian history will limit the rights of those who hunt down the Croatian Adriatic to do whatever they want, for the first time in Croatian history. Whether it's a suspension or it's a delay, it's more or less whatever. This is the non-application of one norm, a positive rule of Croatian law which for certain reasons cannot be applied. Did we need it, did it take you a few days ago to have a Commissioner of the European Commission, a member of the Commission and a Commissioner for Enlargement Mr Rehn here telling us some things that we have reason to suspect that the prime minister knew them weeks and months ago, which we rightly know that they challenged Croatian negotiations and led to this unnecessary delay. And without this delay, Croatia has been in trouble, Croatia has received a number of standards and would not have received them if the job had been done according to the highest European standards the European Commission and the European Union had requested. We are talking about it here, said Mr. Prime Minister if I heard correctly, and the amendment in that sense was proposed by the president of HNS, Mrs. Vesna Pusic, that we would extend the ZERP and our fishermen, so that they too would have the right to hunt in ZERP. So is that an achievement? I think it was a flaw that they had no right to do it before. Did the Prime Minister keep us posted? Did he know more than he needed to share with the Croatian public? What's with the hesitation? That's what we talked about the other day as presidents of the Assembly Party. And the Parliament came last in line, last, last, last. And we didn't see this as a space or as a medium for calculation, but as a medium for open discussion of the problems in which Croatia is both the way and the methods to come out of them. But that's what you get away from. You can't run from that. I know that the government is leading the country, I know that according to the Constitution and the law, the government is leading internal and foreign policy, but Parliament is the place for this kind of conversation. This is how I wonder who runs this country, which is the politics of this government. By listening to the honourable Vice-President of the Parliament and the president of the HSS, Mr Fristic, I can find that he advocates the same arguments and the same views on the goals he has advocated before. But does this government have more cohesive tissue, is there cohesion in it? Here we see the difference in fundamental issues. The SDP, of course, would not want to bring down the government because the word collapse should be pushed aside, the word building should be dominant in this society. But is such a government, can such a government with such a difference in attitudes. I hear he can. We have dilemmas. Can it be run by Croatian society? Is there any power to go out to the Croatian public and to say that ZERP is something that we wanted at some point to protect the sea, to protect the fish fund, to protect the country ecologically, in order to say that here too, these belts declared by members of the European Union relate to various contents but the European Union has a common fisheries policy. Those are things that don't hurt, they just have to be said. I see the Prime Minister's gone. Once we enter the European Union in our area of ZERP, they will hunt in agreement with Brussels, in common with all the members of the European Union, with a maximum protection regime, they will fish according to the quotas of all the members of the European Union that are interested in this. Is that a pain in the ass to say it like it's true? Is that a pity for Croatia? Or it's about two goals, one that we failed in the way we wanted to achieve, and the other one that's taller, which is more important for a whole generation of Croatian people that we're going to be able to achieve. I must once again ask the question with the need to point out that the SDP is a party to which Europe is at heart and in practice, that we have advocated and we will advocate as an opposition Croatian as far as we can in parliament, through our partners, through the Socialists, through all those we can reach for the Croatian path to be fast, quality, to be effective, to end this as soon as possible. But can we support such a decision in the situation when we see that the Government is unable to support that decision, that the ruling majority has no agreement on the current most important internal political and foreign policy issue because there is no agreement. There's no deal. Therefore, the SDP club will continue to work as vigorously as we can on Croatia's SDP to bring Croatia closer to Europe. Whether or not we're going to support this decision that's already been made and we know it's been made. And our position, our formal voice on that doesn't mean anything. It will depend heavily on whether the ruling coalition will show that there is unity in it on this important issue and that unity we do not see so far. No, he's not. He's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4309	Thank you very much. We have a few corrections. First is Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go. Please stick to the correction, not the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4310	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague Milanovic incorrectly cited a lot of things, so I will correct some of them. Says a colleague since ZERP's application, he's got nothing. That's not true. Only we, just one part concerning the members of the European Union, will therefore not apply. So ZERP will apply to everyone else. The second thing, from membership before 2011 says a colleague has nothing from membership in the European Union. In particular, the European Commission has expressed its wish to complete the negotiations by the end of their term of office, so during 2009, the European Parliament will adopt a resolution that wants this European Parliament's call, which is by mid-2009 to decide on Croatia's membership in the European Union. So, not 2011. Next, you said we got the standards because we didn't comply with certain standards. That's not true. We have received the criteria due to experience in the European Union with those countries that have entered the European Union before us. You said our fishermen don't have the right to fish in ZERP. And that's not true. It's just not true, it's not true, it's not a fact. Our fishermen were right and have the right to fish in ZERP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4311	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4312	Thank you very much. A respected colleague incorrectly said that after 2006 when this House decided to postpone, I quote, "The State Secretary made some arrangements the next day." He made no arrangements, but made the right decision of this Parliament, put it not in some document, but in the record, and no one said a colleague was hiding or hiding, published that record on the Internet on the same day where he rests today, so you can see him. The second is incorrect, he says, there is no agreement in the ruling majority. In our coalition agreement, there is no word about ZERP or any agreement, so the agreement cannot be broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4313	Thank you. Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric, please. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although part of it has already been corrected by counterpart Matušić, it is the fact that Croatia has gained standards because the Croatian government is not doing well. I would just add that this is a new methodology of work and now all chapters have criteria either for closing or opening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4315	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4316	Your Honor. Here is my colleague Milanovic, saying: "From the use of resources that the European Union can give by 2011 there will be nothing." Well, I can't believe my colleague doesn't actually know about pre-accession funds and stuff. ... It's not abuse. I can't believe my colleague doesn't even know about it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4317	It's not a question of belief or unbelief, it's a matter of facts. Mr. Borislav Matkovic. Here you go, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4318	Mr. President. Since colleagues have already corrected a lot of incorrect things, I will call upon only one inaccuracy, and it refers to the fact that this government does not know and that it does not actually know where it will go and that it is irresponsible. It is true for Mr Milanovic that any politician who holds on to himself, or his rating, would be crucial to him to be responsible, informative and respectful of the facts, and you are the one who is telling the truth and turning the facts. The truth is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4319	Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4320	Take it easy. Slowly, gentlemen, learn to endure the truth. The truth is the hardest and most painful, and so is for you. I'll be patient, and I'll listen to you. ... I know what it means, it's painful for you, but what you're going to do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What can I do for you? This government knows as well as it did in the previous period, and you are causing political scandals. Mr. President, give me some time, because they distracted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4321	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4322	You're making political scandals out of this to raise your party's ratings, but it won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4323	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4324	None of that, my Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4325	Thank you very much. This wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote, it was a polymization. Who's in charge? Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Incorrect quote.]] Let's move on. A little patience. There's correct corrections, but there's half-limization, is there? That's it. Mr. Andrew Hebrang, on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4326	Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I have to say at the beginning, I'm a little sad because the debate on a great Croatian interest has turned into an inter-party dispute after all. I thought we were going to treat that wound that's open together, and we're not going to pour alcohol on it because it's painful, but we still haven't avoided that trap. That's why I think right away at the beginning to say, for ZERP we're equally guilty, both of us. Racan's government brought him before the 2003 elections and immediately postponed him. And put it off right away. We inherited it and also immediately delayed it. And the second time we put it off again. Why did we delay each other? Because they have not matured international conditions for the application of our rights in the ecological, in ZERP, area of the fishing ecological zone. They haven't matured the conditions. If they had matured, such a decision would have been made by our predecessors. It was brought by President Tudjman, as mentioned by the prime minister several times we had it on the agenda. We did not make a decision because we knew that they had not matured international conditions for such application. But not just President Tudjman. It would have made such a decision for the former Yugoslavia, because as you know since 1982, the international convention has been in force, and no one has thought to declare ZERP because they have not matured international conditions. Well, international conditions haven't matured today, even though we hope it will mature. And that's why today's situation can be divided into three groups of problems. One group is the protection of the fishing belt, one is ecological, and one is unfortunately the strongest political one, and instead of politicalally transferring it to the area of common interest, we have begun to outvote each other with the ZERP, I will not say a rougher term. I don't think that's good, and I don't want to go on like that. What's ZERP? For most of our citizens, it's unknown. ZERP is not an area of Croatian territory. Croatia has 56,000 kilometres of land square, it has 31 thousand square miles of sea and it is an area of the Croatian state and is not being discussed at all. There's a debate about an area beyond that. Why in this area outside our area do we want to protect our fishing belt? Because biology does not know our interstate borders and what is caught in the area of ZERP, outside the territory of Croatia it is filled with fish from a nesting site in the Republic of Croatia, so our seas are also impoverished, and therefore we must protect ourselves as to fishing and this area, even though it is not within our country. Can we protect him? Well, as you know, Slovenia has, as Mr. Frishcic said, two carts that can hunt there, Italy has 800. Croatia also has very few and therefore we are in an unequal position there. The fishing is therefore 220 thousand tonnes for Italian fishermen and only 30 thousand for Croatian fishermen, and this is a problem that will not disappear after today's delay, but the Croatian government and all of us will continue to work on it, but on different methods and on a different political plan. Another problem is environmental protection. I personally consider it even more important than this fishing vessel because it can do even more damage. As we know through that narrow Adriatic of ours, because the Adriatic is a closed sea, it passes 70 million tons of oil annually. About 60 million towards the Italian coast and about 10 million towards the Croatian coast. It's a danger number one, because only one accident can cause more damage than one year's catch in ZERP, and there's another danger associated with it, and that's ballast water. So these tankers, when they empty the oil, take the seawater and empty it. If they take it in another ecological sphere and empty in the Adriatic, they bring billions and billions of living beings, micro-organisms and macro-organisms that don't live here and that will disrupt the biological flora and thus cause immense damage. These are also topics for the ZERP and topics that are not removed from the agenda today's decision to postpone application to members of the European Union because these topics continue under the agreement with the European Union and in bilateral negotiations with all countries that are fortunate to have part of the Adriatic coast. Therefore, we are not interrupting these negotiations today, we are just directing them to another track and we can, however, after today's decision, I am sure of it, and speed it up in favour of protecting Croatian interests in these extraterior waters. The political issue, yes, is an even bigger problem than fishing and environmental issues. The political issue is that we have again come to a situation where our aspirations for entry into Europe pose certain obstacles. Nothing greater than the obstacles that have been put in place for all other countries that have entered the European Union. And every country that goes into one community thinks, and we listened to it the other night and from the Slovenian representative, that it goes towards it with particularly negative methods. It's a subjective feeling. All of them received certain conditions and were on them as it is now on us, that we will react effectively and refuse what they call blackmail or we will accept the situation as it is and try to find an exit that is least painful or most useful for Croatia again. We'll eat dumplings again. But we learned how to swallow dumplings. Remember our first decision in this High House in this room, the separation decision from the former Yugoslavia. We immediately made a decision to postpone that decision and it was a great dumpling we swallowed. They followed the other big dumplings, puking down their throats. Remember plan Z4, remember the withdrawal from Medačka Jep where they beat up Gospić and other places and killed civilians, remember all those international contracts we accepted, and we swallowed bitter dumplings. But the way towards victory leads exactly to such methods because Croatia came out of everything as a winner, and politically because it created a country when it was few countries in the world wanted and a military winner when it had no help practically from anyone. So swallowing dumplings does not mean swallowing national interests but working towards national interests, but with the prudence that is of course necessary. Some say the choice between Europe and ZERP is not true at all. By entering Europe and before we enter, we are negotiating the same problems that I have been talking about, so we will also talk about the fishing problem and about the ecological problem, and we will conclude a contract the same as all other European Union countries have for the common sea, a concept that uses common water or common waters in which the common rules of all European Union members will apply, as well as Croatia. The issue of national pride is not at all a question, because national pride will be at the highest level if we enter the European Union and definitely come out of what they show us today as the Western Balkans. This will be the culmination of Croatian national pride, and I therefore propose that we go on a path that leads to the European Union, while paying a price because there is no pride without price. And now for economic loss. They say we lose 200 million a year, 250 million euros because Italians catch so many fish and that's a fact and that's right, maybe more than that. But how much do we get by joining the European Union? That's the scale of scale, that's the measure of profit from the price we pay. What do we get by entering the European Union economically? You have recently published an extraordinary study of the Institute of Economics, which was made up in 2007 on the basis of orders from the Croatian Government. Some data on countries that have recently entered the European Union on their economies and their profits, so let's compare them to these 200 to 300 million euros. First of all, gross national income after entering the European Union is growing about 50% faster or I quote, the Czech Republic and Slovakia had twice the defeat of gross national income after entry, and in all summation, all the countries that entered the last package in the European Union had an increase of 4.5 to 6.5%, which is a terrible increase we all know. The number of unemployed fell from 10.8 to 8% within a year and a half. With us, of course, the result will be better because we're already quite close to that number. The salaries rose from 578 euros to 633 euros at the end of the first year of membership. Institutional reforms that have been made and anyone continuing to enter have led to corruption in these countries so reduced that they have jumped by a few dozen places on that scale of bad or good in the transparency international analysis. So they jumped an average of 30 to 40 places in a positive sense. The consumption, therefore, has increased 13% annually. That factor or the well-being index that speaks has increased by 5 billion and 100 million kuna in the first two years, and exports have increased by 57%. Of course, Croatia can be better, equal to or weaker. I am only comparing the experiences of others, therefore, the expected profit from joining the European Union with this loss of 250 to 300 million euros annually in the negotiations phase until the entry into the European Union. And that must be avoided because I think we should objectively look at this material fact, that is, those losses and gains with this political decision. With the period ahead, if this House adopts the proposal submitted by the HDZ club, three things will happen. First, there is no abolition of the ZERP, there is no untiling of the decisions of this Assembly in terms of the decision on the ZERP, but only has a decision to amend its application to the members of the European Union, therefore, the application is dynamically prolonged but the ZERP remains in force. Second. During our entry into the European Union, negotiations on all these topics that I have just mentioned are components of the ZERP problem. So, these negotiations are not interrupted, but they are intensifying. In negotiations to achieve European standards, we can achieve better than what we predicted for ZERP if we are good and skilled negotiators or at least equal to that in the protection of Croatian open sea interests. What we can and must take advantage of that period and we point out that. precisely all moves in terms of achieving these strategic objectives must be stepped up and not stopped. What can we do in these two, two and a half, three years until the entry into full membership and entry into force of the European Union rules? We can continue to give our fishermen incentives to build a fishing fleet, we can raise the standard of coast guard, we can apple area or apple territory bilaterally negotiate and lead to what ideal we seek. We can implement the Ballast Waters Agreement, unloading these ballast waters in the Otran Gate, etc. In other words, the period ahead of us will not be lost but will now intensify everything to reach goals that we have only tried to fix by changing dynamics, and some consider losing. And in the end, one small comparison. When we watched Blanca Vlasic jump through that high ladder, we didn't even think how much sweat and tears were behind it. And the better she jumped, the more they lifted her scale. And they're raising a ladder for Croatia. And the better we meet the conditions of the European Union, the more they raise the scale for doing the same to others. But we're getting better and better, so I suggest we don't get under the ladder this time or try to get around it, because the judge is watching, but we all take the lead off our shoes together and skip this ladder because we know and we can. And that is why I invite you to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4327	Thank you. We have nine corrections, so fellow Hebrang, if I may so joke is in great competition with Mr Caine as a manufacturer of correcting incorrect allegations. The first is Mrs. Milanka Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4328	So I'll correct two incorrect allegations. The first is that we are all to blame for ZERP because you say, we knew that they did not mature international relations for that decision. Mr. Hebrang, I'll remind you that when we made the Decision on the Eco-fishing Zone, you were then looking for an economic belt and you asked for a referendum. You requested maximum, and today you are unable to keep this minimum. And two. When you say that there is no abolition of ZERP, but the application will not apply to the countries of the European Union, I will tell you, it is incorrect... ZERP, you're going to shut it down tonight. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I didn't know Croatian fishermen were the problem Japanese. I thought the problem was Italians and Slovenians.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4329	Thank you. Zvonimir Mršić, a correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4330	So I would correct the incorrect quote of fellow Hebrang who said they had not matured terms. I think the conditions are mature, they've despised, and even if they're almost rotten conditions. Because this is where Croatia's prime minister resisted his finger last fall and said ZERP will apply from January 1st this year. You... It will apply to members of the European Union from 1 January. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You were running in a campaign from city to city, from place to place and asking the citizens to give you confidence because you assured them that the application of ZERP would not be delayed. Just two months after the election you saw that the situation was not mature but was enough.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4331	It's a classic example of abuse of correcting an incorrect quote and polemics with Mr. Hebrang. It's the classics of Mr. Zvonimira Mršić, and you keep saying it. Are you making any possible warnings? Now, that's where I'm gonna hold back. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4332	Your Honor! Here, I'll correct an incorrect quote by Mr. Hebrang who said, for ZERP we are guilty of both. That's not true. For ZERP, we are not the only one and the other, for ZERP is the former government headed by HDZ. The former government headed with HDZ signed various agreements in Brussels, and we did not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4333	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here's your correction!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4334	I would correct the false allegations of maturation or international conditions. My opinion is that the conditions are created by the adoption of the UN Convention on the Declaration of a Protected Environmental Belt, or the right of a country to do so since 1982. And that right was called upon by the Croatian Parliament, not by the left or right when he made that decision. And two. I can't understand the guilt of anyone who just wants to protect means additional territory, economic, ecological in their sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4335	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4336	Mr. President! My colleague was just quoting correctly, and he said, "It's my opinion that that and that." This Regulation shall enter So this isn't the Institute of Correction of Opinion, it's the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4337	Like an article 209 that's not talking about it. Let us move on with one staunch patience that these allegations will continue to be misused, and I will keep warning, but without official warning. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4338	Incorrectly, counterpart Hebrang claimed that the former Yugoslavia ratified the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea of '82. A year. She signed it, and in '94. the year was only Croatia, i.e. '94. The year has only just come into effect. No, no. In this way you, Mr Hebrang, have reduced the Croatian acquis and have enriched the Yugoslav undeserved.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4339	Mr. Hebrang. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4340	This time I refer to Article 214. My colleague didn't correct my claim, because I didn't say what she said at all. I said that Yugoslavia didn't ratify and that it could.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4341	Thank you. Let's move on. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4342	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll fix two allegations. Hebrang's first colleague said that Racan's government had already known at the time of this decision on ZERP that no international conditions had been created, so we had already made a decision on the postponement. I'm sorry, but the decision says exactly why we've made the postponement of the decision, which is that once you've taken power after us, you should actually prepare all the implementing mechanisms, make agreements and arrangements with interested countries and the European Community. You didn't do it. And another incorrect allegation, it is not true that the European Union is now setting us up with ZERP any specific conditions or obstacles. No, the European Union is merely asking for the implementation of what your government signed in June 2004 by State Secretary Hide Biscovic. He asks to be respected, and don't ask all of us to eat dumplings with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4343	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4344	It is indeed inappropriate to argue that for today's situation of the Republic of Croatia and relations with the European Union, the same responsibility for ZERP is given to the two governments. Why? It is true that the HDZ government in the Assembly made a decision on the ZERP and, at the same time, delayed its application in the Assembly. So it was all public in 2003. It is true that the HDZ government made a decision in 2004, proposed by the parliament to postpone the ZERP, the decision on the ZERP. In 2004, however, the HDZ government signed a political act in Brussels, and it does not inform either the Parliament or the Croatian public. And there is the responsibility of this government for today's situation. So, Brussels asks the Croatian Parliament to strengthen or consolidate the political decision of the HDZ government in 2004 and in this it is the responsibility of the HDZ Government to the citizens why it brought the Croatian Parliament to decide between two national interests, and we could avoid it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4345	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4346	My colleague Hebrang said, I quote sometimes we have to swallow dumplings to join the EU, into the European Union. If that were true during HDZ rule, we would become the world's greatest country. And that is also not true because all members of the European Union are signatories of the Charter of the United Nations which give all countries the sovereign right to declare the belt. In addition, the European Commission itself has advised its members to extend their jurisdiction to 12 miles from their territorial waters in order to better manage and protect that belt. Croatia has been hampered by the move for one reason, as it violates Italian interests, and the obesity continues.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4347	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4348	Mr. President, dear colleague Hebrang has made one characteristic slip, if it's a slip, and I'll ask him if there's a chance he can answer me. He said this: “There is no pride without price!” In my opinion and as I thought so far pride has no price, so I am interested now because Mr. Friscic has discussed from this logic at which this pride has no price of how a coalition partner who thinks that pride does not agree with a coalition partner who thinks he has no pride without price. It would be interesting if before the vote you would explain to us so that as we heard, we know how to set ourselves up towards this to say so to your understanding of pride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4349	You get into polemics and replicas who knows which way. And try to remember that when there's a second chance, not forget it and address someone else. ......... It's a statement of court, of opinion, not a correction of an incorrect assumption. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Now I'm informing the Parliament that the transfer has been interrupted, and we have as one very important fact as to whether, and we have 48 reported. If you'll let me, I'll ask the clubs to try to revise the number of their speakers, because it'll just be a repeat of what we've already heard. I think that's rational. I can't do anything to anyone, I can't take anyone's right, but I'm asking you to take care of that fact because 48 of us reported, including I signed up. So I'm one of 48. So, if you can, please? ... If, but for the sake of ease, I am obliged here by the Rules of Procedure to provide explanations, you know among other things, and one of the explanations is that October 3rd was delayed a year, that for the member states of the European Union in 2004, it was also delayed, and for the sake of hope in the Fisheries Partnership Treaty, that is the same fact, right. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Third, that on 15 December 2006, it was announced that it will apply from 1 January 2008 and applies 72 days as you said and no one can legally or in any way erase that fact. Also a fact. So can we take a break of 15 minutes with the hope that the clubs will respond to this reminder, or my information that 48 colleagues and colleagues have been reported. We'll continue at 7:30. Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4351	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't think I'll make a mistake when I find that for Croatia this year, in terms of the country's international position, it has begun disastrously. The old Prime Minister Sanader has been speaking publicly about this lately, but today the old prime minister and the old government can no longer get away with their favorite excuse is the SDP, as they have been in power for more than four years. Croatia's international fiasco is not only responsible for ZERP, it is also freezing funds from EU pre-accession funds due to non-transparent allocation and use of that money. The impression of corruption and cremation of the HDZ administration has been strengthened by unequivocal warnings that the EU will not tolerate Croatian corruption, and that it is necessary to start a serious reform of the judiciary. While ruling to try for the current difficult situation in which Croatia is found to blame only ZERP, again recklessly playing on the completely wrong map of national pride, the fact is that the current situation with ZERP would not have happened to us if we had no major problems with corruption, with the inability and sloppyness of the state administration that lies to Croatian citizens and the mud of European bureaucrats thinking that it is so skillful in manipulation and spinping that no one will notice it, and for that we are not blamed by the heads of Europe, but our new old government. Today, it is said that ZERP is an irrelevant political issue, a national weightless issue that complicates negotiations with the EU, the most important national interest. In doing so, HDZ MPs place folk thesis on how stupid it is to slaughter a cow for a steak. The issue of the irrelevability of the ZERP is very easy to deny, because of the exceptional political importance of the protected eco-fishing belt not only to the national, but also to the international showing the reactions of neighbouring countries and the European Union that we want to become an equal member. How is it possible that for Italy, Slovenia and the European Union, the Croatian ZERP is an important political issue and for many at home an irrelevant political issue? Experts say that every year Italian fishermen from ZERP fish catches about 300m euros, and it can be expected that in the years they come they will fish out an increasing amount of fish, as they know that this practice will necessarily change when Croatia enters the European Union. Why? Because the European Union protects its directives from overfishing, in particular certain fish species, and young fish specimens, and in order to manage marine resources in a sustainable way. Such a policy of the European Union seeks to find the right balance between the economic interests of Member States and the longer term interests of environmental protection, but unlike the Italian, Slovenian and European politicians, our rulings are in no way to learn that in the international community they must advocate the interests of our country and our citizens who ultimately have brought them into a position to represent Croatia in Europe and in the world, and not for the interests of foreign citizens, and if there is such strong and economic interest in Italy and the European Union that in the next few years ZERP is suspended for EU countries, then there must be an even stronger Croatian interest to protect our multiple interests, primarily in the interests of environmental protection, and then long-term economic interests. Because unless we protect the Croatian Adriatic from biological poverty today, we will not be able to protect our own and European economic interest in the future. We will have dead seas that will not be able to make up for even so much of our desired EU membership. Governments often say that more important quality than the speed of negotiations with the European Union, and today's behaviour of the government that resuspends ZERP for EU countries says that such statements are ordinary demagogy, because if it were not so, then our diplomacy would find a way not to choose between the EU or the ZERP, between the two national interests, would already be fought for both the ZERP and the continuation of negotiations with the EU. That's what citizens fully legitimately expect from this government, but what they won't get. Why? Because in the government, we have diletaries, not capable and credible politicians. I firmly believe that we could get the ZERP and the EU and again by getting allies in the EU Parliament and administration based on undeniable ecological arguments based on research by relevant scientific institutions, such as the oceanographic institute in Split. These research focuses on the necessity of effective environmental protection, primarily biodiversity in that part of the Adriatic, which has been very threatened in recent years by overfishing, but also by the transport of tankers and ship pollutants, which is hardly mentioned in the Croatian public at all. The poverty of that part of the Adriatic is also characterised by the fact that Italian fishermen are increasingly hunting in our territorial sea. This was also proved by the example of that fish that was reportedly caught in ZERP. It should be noted that the ship's polluters, after Italy declared its ecological zone, began to transport exclusively to ZERP, which contributed significantly to the pollution of that part of the sea. For this reason, I believe that the only correct solution is to completely prohibit fishing in the ZERP for the next two or three years, which means to prohibit fishing for both Italian and Croatian fishermen, and to strictly control the navigation of polluters ships, i.e. to prohibit the fishing of risk ships, primarily in order to protect the biodiversity and wealth of the Adriatic. In this case, the Croatian state would necessarily have to compensate those domestic fishermen who hunt in the area of ZERP, and it is mainly about hunters who are about 15% of the total number of Croatian fishermen. This proposal is primarily ecologically motivated, as it would allow for the reconstruction of the already poored fish fund in ZERP, but it also provides a solution to the unfortunate political situation in which we have found ourselves thanks to our political-diplomatic cremation. Given that it is a decision that treats both Croatian and Italian fishermen in the same way, that it is a decision that is motivated by justified environmental arguments, and as demonstrated by a large number of studies on the state of the fish fund in ZERP which domestic politicians, in the end, should study and read, I believe that the EU parliamentarians and officials, given that environmental protection is among the most important policies of the European Union, would carefully consider such an ecological argument, and not the one we have chosen, an argument which rests on representing Croatia's hard economic interests and national pride and ultimately accept such a proposal. I believe that the ecologically motivated fish-fishing oratorium in ZERP would give us enough political time for the quality of the negotiations to be completed. I repeat here, this would allow for the biological recovery of that part of the Adriatic, and we would also give ourselves the opportunity to finish EU negotiations in peace quality for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because EU entry must not be our goal, but a means of achieving life in a richer and fairer society of civil values. But I'm afraid it won't be like that. In fact, the government's ambition to monitor and protect the Adriatic effectively in real life, and not only on paper, is best expressed by the fact that this year's government for the purchase of equipment and coast guard vessels is predicted by the miserable 50 million kuna, although it is aware that four larger vessels and 60 smaller vessels should be invested in the purchase of additional 800 million kunas. The government's unambitiousness, unfortunately, makes ZERP impertinent, and the citizens of Croatia did not deserve it. They did not deserve to be unambiguously reconciled with the choice between the EU and ZERP, so there must be a way to choose the variant and/or the only real interest of Croatian citizens. Maybe this proposal that I just suggested is exactly that way. Ladies and gentlemen of the government. You who have put us through your bad policy, by signing an agreement declaring the scribes to the present difficult situation, you must now get us out of this situation, but not by choosing or/or making it easier. You have to do this because you end up being paid dearly by the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4352	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4353	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 214 has been injured, and I think MPs should be warned when she said that this government is run by diletaries. If a colleague thought that it might be the people's fault that he gave this government confidence, the majority trust and that he is again leading Croatia to the European Union, if you think that they are responsible, then you will have to explain it to them. But this is how to express itself about members of the Croatian government behind whom biographies, behind whom is the political path and their professional path, I think it really deserves a warning. I know you're new to the Parliament. But I also know that you worked at the ministry and you're probably frustrated that you're not working in that ministry anymore. But that's your personal problem, and don't use such expressions in the debate anymore, because it's really insulting to us MPs, as well as to members of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4354	Thank you. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4355	Mr. President! I think article 209 was injured because Mr. Matušić, 209, because Mr. Matušić cannot... [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4356	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! By who knows which time I warn all MPs without distinction that they do not use Article 209 which speaks about the right of an agent to correct the incorrect, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but should mention that article that potentially injured the Rules of Procedure. And then explain and explain, talk about it. That's right. However, you keep mentioning Article 209. I will also have the tolerance and patience to go over it for a while until we change the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and he is in procedure, so I guess we'll get out of that dead end. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4357	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said the following in a series of incorrect allegations. Because of the non-transparentity of spending, we are frozen by the European Union's funds. That's not true. That's not true. Even today, competitions are under way for European Union funds from European funds. Look at the amount of funds we used, over 95% from certain funds. So you obviously don't know what this is about. It's another thing. You said HDZ and the ruling coalition not protect the interests of Croatian citizens but the interests of foreign citizens. That's not true. We are exclusively interested in Croatian citizens, not the interest of foreign citizens, because it is quite certain that we proved it the moment we resisted all of your decisions, including the famous Savudria vala agreement. Well, your president, unfortunately he passed away, but he signed something that goes in favor of another state. He gave up his territory, gave up his territory.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4358	Thank you, thank you. There was no talking about it. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here's your correction!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4359	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the same assumption that frozen funds have been allocated to the EU because of the non-transparentity. It's just not true. The European Commission was in a meeting with our representatives, resolute institutions dealing with funds at a regular meeting in December and warning them of three key things. The first is that more people need to be hired at the Contracting Agency and what has been done. The second is to hold back people in the state service once they've been trained, which is what they're also working on. And the third is to speed up the process of delivering information by the portfolio towards the delegation of the commission. That's what you do. And it's about as familiar as May of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4360	Thank you very much. Correction Mr Tomislav Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4361	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, respected ministers, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Between a series of incorrect allegations, my colleague Holly, I will only correct one. In fact, my colleague Holly said this quote: "This government is muddying European officials and everyone else." The truth is next. The Croatian government does not muddle European officials but leads Croatia through diplomatic negotiations towards joining the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4362	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4363	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored Deputy Prime Minister. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to ZERP, of course it is very interesting for Croatia. Not only for that part of the coast, not only for those fishermen and people living on the sea, fish and fishing, but generally when it comes to this particular problem, it certainly means more to Croatia. Much bigger than it has only economic significance. If we just remember, and we all know this well, that the symbol of the early Christians was fish, that the first apostles were fishermen. That is why this has a special meaning and a special sensitivity. And that's why Croatian citizens are among other things about this fact that ZERP has little, so there is little, they are simply annoying this ZERP-ing with Croatia. The Croats will obviously also lose the ZERP by making the majority decision, and it will be postponed for the European Union countries. Let us translate this because we all know what this is about, that Slovenians and Italians will continue to be able to hunt in ZERP unhindered, that we will lose in this sense ZERP, but that Croatian citizens will obviously get nervous. Something I would especially like to point out. So here today there was a lot of talk here from the mouth of Mr. Prime Minister who said that he would not remember in 2000 or 2003, so that he would be happy to remember, or he started in the 1990s. However, when it comes to this subject, when it is necessary for Croatian citizens to explain why, but very transparently, then these great patriotic stories of the 1990s seem more inconclusive than usual. What for, gentlemen? Here, on October 3, 2003, in this house, when the debate at the Croatian Parliament was held, today's prime minister said: "And when we have opened this topic, then we should say that the European Union cannot put pressure on it, I say this with full responsibility, it cannot pressure Croatia not to declare an economic belt because it is founded in the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is older than all decisions of the European Union.". So then ZERP was thought to be something small. What does the coalition then propose? It is something that reduces Croatia's right. Should have then, he says, declared an economic belt. And then it concludes we got one chubby or what the fishermen from my neighborhood would say "no berka or kanjak" which means we'll only see in the future. That's how it was spoken from this Croatian home, from the Croatian parliament on this side. Furthermore, on 3 June 2004, also Mr. Prime Minister Sanader said: "The point is that we are in an extremely sensitive situation, in a historic situation when decisions are made for Croatia which are of historical importance. So there's no giving up on the zone. The zone shall apply from 3 October. No giving up on the zone, no delay in using the zone. There are delays only to apply to these twenty-five until the conclusion of the negotiations." But it continues in 2006: "No matter what government it was and will be the same since 1 January of the ZERP entry into force. ZERP enters into force for EU member states, otherwise it is already in effect on 1 January 2008 and will remain so." And so on, I'm not bothering you. You also know very well. That's what they said back then. But here, obviously, but that should explain why. Which is why ZERP became an easy-to-hungry plunger that got into the wheels of a car leading towards Europe. But it's not the only clip. That's one pin. Clips and the biggest clips are reforms, reform procedures. That's also what we wanted to hear about here today, but there was a return to the 1990s to justify 2008. But let's explain when Mr. Prime Minister doesn't want us to explain what this is about and why it's often about blackmail. However, the three-way meeting of Italy, Slovenia and Croatia took place in Brussels on 4 June 2004. At this meeting, the agreed minutes where Croatia literally states that it has confirmed, there is the signature of Mr Hidaet Biscevic of the State Secretary that Croatia will not change during this period in the existing regime for the Member States of the European Union, so before we have decided to suspend and that ZERP will also apply to EU member states. Of course Italian and Slovenian State Secretarys welcomed the suspension. And then it was explained to us that it wasn't some record, that it was just a record, that it was something he didn't commit. However, at the European Commission, the European Council, and on 17 June, it is publicly presented and concluded, please, there in Brussels, which welcomes the agreement between Italy, Slovenia and Croatia reached at the trilateral meeting on 4 June. And then, if it was thought to have just signed something like that, something common, it's our old habit to act like it, so we don't care what we signed, but then it was necessary to send a very direct note to the Union that would then state and explain that we didn't mean something serious or that someone signed past the will of the Croatian Government or that it didn't really mean it as in the European Commission or in the European Union. But it was silent and farting. You see, such a single policy, an inconsistencies policy that a small country like Croatia cannot allow. That luxury could possibly allow for great lands. Croatia can lead a successful policy with one principled policy, a real policy and such a rural experience of democracy to speak one thing out there and sign one and home for domestic use especially if it is before the election of another. That's what cost us. But that didn't cost us one policy for the first time. Then perhaps the most visible on the ZERP. And so don't say now that Europe is guilty of everything because selling, crossing the truth and the government is now serving and the government has to tell the people the biggest and most unpleasant truth because otherwise the consequences can be far-reaching. You can't just promise to win the election out there and then when it's over, you take some back-up position and you play the collective sacrifice because there's Europe pushing us, Europe's looking for something. In this situation, we have been brought by such a policy, an unconsistent policy, a policy where something outside was spoken differently and home for domestic use differently. And then, what are we surprised at? That we get outside the message that this is a non-serious state that deserves nothing more than to humiliate it and make fun of how anyone remembers it. The truth is that someone can cause us trouble, but for humiliation, we bear our own responsibility. And that's what we need to talk about here. And where Croatia is now. This is the kind of policy Croatia has put on its own hook. It's something our citizens certainly didn't deserve. In our neighborhood, there was often, here to paraphrasise Mr. Prime Minister who was then a representative when he said this wasn't enough, that ZERP was not enough, that Croatia must immediately declare the economic belt, so when he mocked such a bill or decision of "neither birka nor kanac" here we say, and we say well in Dalmatia that fishing life is difficult. It says, "The fishermen are always wet underpants.". And how are we going to Europe? How long does this non-application take? Until we get in? And how long will that be? Will there be fish by then? Looks like we'll go to Europe then and without fish or underpants. Then why do we need a Europe like that? So, I'd like to.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4364	Thank you very much, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4365	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for keeping your... But apparently they don't want to hear it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This may be awkward stuff, but we need to talk about it bravely, so something like this doesn't happen to us again because we've already... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4366	We're used to awkward things. We have a replica of Mrs. Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4367	Thank you very much. Your colleagues, Anticevic-Marinovic, called for words from the prime minister's opening statement that he said he did not want to come back in 2003 or the fourth. You don't want to because it's an awkward time for him. In 2003, when a decision on ZERP was taken, a time of one year was left for certain preparations and talks to be carried out. Instead, after half a year, we have changed the decision that ZERP does not apply to European Union countries. That is, we have forwarded this decision to the Parliament to our Italian and Slovenian neighbours, the European Union has assisted. You quoted something from that record. In other words, we have taken a certain commitment in this way, a commitment we have not fulfilled. To reach out to the local public, we are changing the decision on ZERP in 2006. But this decision of the Croatian Parliament that ZERP will be implemented fully from 1.1.2008 we are not actually forwarding either Italy, Slovenia or the European Commission. That is why the European Union is not blackmailing Croatia or the Croatian government, but the European Union is just asking to keep the day's word.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4368	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4369	Comrade Zgrebec, that is true but either way Italian and Slovenian fishermen will continue to fish our fish. But you see, I'd say that's not the biggest problem. An even bigger problem is that this policy will continue to fish for the souls of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4370	I'd just like to make sure these replicas don't get too tough. Here, though. We've got two corrections. The first is Mr. Sunday Street. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4371	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, the distinguished representative Anticevic said one inaccuracies at the beginning of her presentation. He says everyone in this assembly knows that old Christian books say. I must remind her that her president, Mr Milanovic, pleads as an atheist and said he had never read the Bible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4372	Thank you. Correction Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4373	An honorary colleague incorrectly said that we had made the decision before the election. Before the election, your government made a decision in 2003 unnecessarily because you knew there were no conditions, so you immediately made that decision and postponed it for a year. Why didn't you bring a year or a year later, not just before the election for political reasons? It's not right. And another incorrect allegation. He says we're getting messages that Croatia is a non-serious state. It must be the most serious state in the region, and everyone admits it to us because we have reached and reached all of our neighbours who have not had such war damage as we have and reached the door of the European Union despite the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4374	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4375	Here is a colleague, who has violated the Rules of Procedure of Article 209 in connection with Article 214. It's the rules of procedure because he was talking about some old books. I was talking about the old Christian concept, and knowledge of it has nothing to do with belonging to a particular religious confession. Therefore, these are important differences. But okay, he's new, so he can be a little tolerated. And otherwise, the correction of the inaccuracy of fellow Hebrang. My colleague Hebrang here is talking about, and he's talking about me!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4376	Ma'am, as a respected lawyer, I thought you'd help us with these institutes, and they'd be used correctly. But we're learning, we're all learning. You know, you see. Mr. Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4377	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. At first, I would like to say that I will be against the Government's proposal to give up the application of the ZERP to the Member States of the European Union, because I find this move by the Government and its prime minister unacceptable because of everything that ZERP has said over the past 5 years and because it is harmful to Croatian interests. It is also unacceptable to explain that we must decide between the European Union or the ZERP. Because I personally am for both the European Union and the ZERP, and the fact that we must choose between these two our interests in which no one can be mythologized is solely the government. If the government also had little political responsibility, it would resign itself because of this manipulation to Croatian citizens. In the West and for smaller things, the Prime Ministers are leaving. But it's illusory for us, so we won't even think about it, and that's why it's good that because of these democratic standards that we enter the European Union as soon as possible, the government's promise of 2011 as the year of entry is another myth and illusion. The debate today in the Croatian Parliament for the Government has only one goal to reduce the political damage done to the government and Prime Minister Sanader. The way we heard it all relativized. National interests are being built, and there is a higher interest in the European Union and the lower ZERP, all with the aim of political survival. The fact that it was previously declared by the prime minister himself that it could not or could not give up on ZERP because it is a Croatian sovereign right without speaking of times when an economic belt was sought today as if it had never been spoken. Now collective amnesia is at work, as amnesia has affected the entire government and when talking about what was on the Split coast, and in light of its decision to extradite Croatian General Haag. The government can survive politically, but the price of such policies is paid by Croatian citizens and the Croatian state. Remember what the government promised Croatian fishermen, from ZERP to the construction of boats for fishing and coast guard. The results are more than modest. This case shows, in addition to the government's proverbial incompetence, another feature of our political elite, which is a complex of less value which in this case is reflected in showing strength to everyone and stronger than itself in this case in the European Union in order to provide the local public with an illusion of the only guarantees of national interest, so that, after the first blow of the first blow, our protectors will bow their heads down and subduely agree to less than what they would get through serious negotiations. Instead of saying for three years that no one would take from us ZERP and knowing for a year and a half that there would be nothing from ZERP, the government could at least start serious negotiations with stakeholders. I'd probably have to give up some parts of the ZERP in those conversations, but some things I'd probably keep. Personally, I believe that the ecological protection of the Adriatic Sea is still a relatively clean European sea, an extremely important issue and this protection of how we and future generations work and protection because of nature itself. It is not a question of two or three fish more or less in the sea as some with ridicule speak but it is a matter of the long-term survival of this people. If we destroy the biodiversity of the Adriatic by means of any fishing aid, to the greatest extent, Italian fishermen or uncontrollable by the transport of ships or other types of pollution will change significantly the way a large number of Croatian people live and upward. Some people won't want to think about it until it happens. One of the solutions that the government was to fight for could have been to activate the ecological component of protection with a particular moratorium on fish fisheries, with compensation provided for our fishermen. This should have been considered and searched for allies within the European Union because there are certainly those in that European Union who would have recognized such Croatian behaviour as the right European behaviour. Because if a decision has been made to protect the Baltic Sea as an ecologically endangered sea, there is no reason for us to make a similar decision for the Adriatic, and yet the ecological component has been declared by Italy and Slovenia why we couldn't. Unfortunately, the government's policy was to deceive citizens, buy time and find excuses for all the problems of joining the European Union in ZERP. That's why ZERP got that mythic character. It is not ZERP's fault that there is little chance that the negotiations can be concluded within the next year, but the government's unwillingness to solve problems in society from corruption that eats social tissue to the state of justice. There are certainly big problems in the negotiations and the issue of fishing. It's not the ZERP reason that Brussels doesn't trust our negotiators that we had the opportunity to read about the other day in the daily newspaper. According to Brussels, several hundred million euros are being turned black, which means that we need to solve corruption in the fisheries sector and allow fishermen to work and earn and benefit from all this. ZERP should have been the support to cut even the corruption shorts of Italian fishermen who destroy all living in the sea and who will likely be encouraged by this giving up for some new demands. The government has made a decision about not applying ZERP. Some will raise their hand to this proposal, which is legitimate, but some do not have the illusion that certain countries in the European Union will appreciate us more. He won't. Only new demands will arrive. In doing so, I do not mean those justified types of resolving the problem of corruption, judicial reform, etc. I'm already talking about the unwarranted. Slovenian Europarliamentary hailing such a government decision said the Croatian government should... /The speaker turned off, then re-plugged./... I don't know what the exclusion is. We are not talking here on those justified demands but on those unwarranted, so it is a Slovenian MEP that I do not appoint him, welcoming this government's decision that the Croatian government should take a full step, not half a step. This is an opportunity for the Government to respond to what is the second half of the move that we need to make from Slovenia so that there is no confusion and that citizens do not have to cheat again. I hope it's not what you might think it is. And in the end, I believe that Croatia is a place in the European Union, but this time the government has chosen does not satisfy me with pleasure. For this reason, I would like to point out once again that I will vote against the Government's proposal on the non-application of the ZERP for members of the European Union, and tomorrow is a new day and a fight for the protection of the Adriatic, those who are aware of its values will certainly be continued regardless of the government and its policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4378	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4379	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is almost absurd to discuss whether the decision to apply ZERP should be postponed in the way it was taken to the Croatian Parliament. Why is that absurd? So this prime minister's government, the same one today, in 2004, concluded a political agreement in Brussels that no decision on the ZERP would apply, and it knew all four years. And what does the European Union want from us now? Let us in the Parliament strengthen what our government has signed, to convaliscate that decision, and we are having a debate on the credibility of our government. Look at the second absurd in that. Even the ecological component of ZERP cannot be applied as though the Adriatic Sea is outside the European Union, as if this could be delayed. Well, we can't accept such a conversation at all about one value that can't be compensated every day. The third absurd in Croatian politics is that if you have to or if you want to speak legitimately about protecting your national interests, you must lead immediately or at least declare that you are for the European Union. It is as if it excludes each other, as if Croatian interests exclude entry into the European Union. That approach is not possible. Such an approach is possible especially when it comes to ecology. That's a value we can't miss. Those who say ZERP is nothing, that it is not worth it in direct conflict with the European Union and with Olli Rehn. So the European Union appreciates this ZERP so much that it conditiones us to continue negotiations, and we argue that ZERP is nothing. Well, that's just absurd. So he's really interested and that's the national interest of the Republic of Croatia. A conflict of two interests. So it doesn't have to be exclusive, it can't be exclusive. We can't accept that they're exclusive. Of course we're all for the European Union, at least we showed it not once. Unfortunately, in the Croatian Parliament and in Croatian politics, I would like to see a policy of rhetoric, but rather a policy and political logic of national interests that must not be contrary to the interests of the European Union or must be brought into line with the European Union, but must not be missed for a period of four years. And when something like that happens, of course the citizens rightly are considered deceived and rightly considered to be of national interest and national pride. We must not bring our citizens into such a situation, but also Croatia in a negotiating process. Something else reminds me of today's situation. If we had a little more brains and national pride, and even knowledge, we would not have lost ownership of the banking system of the Republic of Croatia under the same cover, so we could influence that the national interest in investment is maintained through the banking system, rather than the motivation of banking business just to maximise profits, because foreign bank owners do not even need to develop a national sense of investment in the Republic of Croatia. At that time, when the banks were being sold, our citizens of the Republic were being assured that the foreigners as owners would bring order into the banking system. They did. They really did, you can tell from the balance sheet, from the final account this year, from all banks. That's what we were going through back in '93. When the Stabilisation Programme was adopted, imports of goods would discipline trade in the Republic of Croatia and cost of production. They're really very well disciplined. If history is the teacher of life, what can we expect from ZERP? We can expect ZERP to disappear or in other words, it will become an offer of yus, a naked right for the Republic of Croatia. It's a goal straight. No content. In whose interest? Not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. So, if we have this experience in front of our eyes, what is next that Croatia will have to give up in order to be a welcome application as a candidate country or a member state? Is that the conditions that really apply to state administration reform and judicial reform? Is this a fight against corruption at all levels? I wish that condition had been set for Croatia, not ZERP. It would be a condition that would be in the common interest of both the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the entire European Union. We would enter the European Union so that we would be competitive in all areas much better than in this way. Did that have to happen like that? It's not. No, this shows the signed record of the political will of the HDZ government in the last term that, according to the members of the European Union, ZERP will be applied as requested today or not to apply. Such an attitude would indeed be a responsible attitude towards Croatian politics, towards Croatian citizens, and we would not then conduct such discussions that put us in a position to measure our commitment to the European Union by ourselves, which is more important to preserve. I am sure, I am sure that this is the dilemma put before us by those who already knew in 2004 that they would not apply ZERP to members of the European Union. Such a relationship is an offensive attitude towards the parliamentary representative, and such a relationship does not ensure that a parliamentary representative can do his job correctly to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I, of course, must finally say that it saddens me, because I am really sure that the accelerated entry into the European Union helps to develop the Republic of Croatia, allows for faster progress both in standards and in development. Such a dilemma will, of course, remain permanent, because the decision will be made by the will of the majority, but in me and in the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it will remain as a bitter pill if we protect our national interests, and we should and we could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4380	Thank you. Next, we have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4381	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Leko, you do not need to speak falsely when it comes to 2004. You said, "This government of the Croatian Democratic Community concluded a political agreement in Brussels in 2004." That's just not true. For the sake of the Croatian public, the record you so often refer to is only one thing, which is that Mr Bištević conveyed the information to partners in the European Union that the Croatian Parliament had decided earlier that it would not apply to the member states of the European Union. So that's all it is. That's all it's about. Read that log. He informed them that the Croatian Parliament had made a decision not to apply to members of the European Union. That's what this is about. Read the logs, you got it on the Internet.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4382	Thank you. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4383	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In my contribution to this debate, I will make a contribution to the savings of time. This story of ZERP is obviously one multiple with its plots and plots. It came from one maximum of the economic belt and the result was ZERP, and again it was not ZERP but ZERP with a delay, and once again, twice delayed, and then it was applied to countries, all countries except the European Union and also to the countries of the European Union, and here is the proposal not to apply again to the countries of the European Union. So obviously one complicated situation from which you need to have as much a better setting as possible, I would say so. Here today was a proposal for you to be better off when it's already being delayed. I'm not prone to such a solution because it's not the same. In his, here's my colleague Leko mentioned ZERP, we're mostly looking through fishing, but ZERP has its own real and ecological component, and we're postponing until the deal. Why don't we at least get there as soon as possible, we don't have to wait for a fishing deal, as soon as possible, and make better arrangements for the ecological component, because it can cost us a lot more. What if we weren't ready to intervene in the recent fire of that Turkish ship? Then it would be far greater damage, greater damage than what we lose, which we may not earn from the Italians or some of the others in our protected eco-fishing belt, would be greater damage than that disaster because it would bring great consequences for our tourism. It's said that besides that, we're losing a lot of money. That is true, but if the European Union puts some pressure on this application to delay and that is because we have had direct warnings, then it can really slow down our negotiations with the European Union but it can also use pre-accession funds. And now the question is what, where is more money, is that we are losing because of the non-use of the fishing belt than we possibly can and could not for various reasons because of pre-accession funds or today, tomorrow, from the European Union itself? So true, yes. We have the right to ZERP and that is our benefit, but we also do not have the right to do more harm to Croatia than to benefit. Well, let's stall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4384	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4385	Your Honor, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4386	Vice President!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4387	Vice President! You'd say don't learn lessons in advance. Like this. I'm just going to the line so Zivko can answer. I mean, the two of us come from the same neighborhood. We come from Split and we know exactly what people are thinking down there. We know very well. Zivko knows especially because he has some functions in the county. He knows how the county thinks. Think of the common world. Your people are really upset, upset. ... Well, we're told that someone's upset not only when he's not okay with the house or the room, but when he's got everything in his head. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And it doesn't go to his head to be interpreted as being the elimination of ZERP is a good thing, and until yesterday, they were telling you the same thing and convincing him it wasn't exactly like that. Because Zivko said some advocate not only delay but end it, and I'm against it. I'm against it, too, but this is really dogging. If the whole situation is considered... Ambience and political, if you want time here, if that's where it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I won't mention fishing at all. All the fishermen out there today, outboard ships protesting. Sea and ecologicals. Well, Hido Biscevic said clearly that this component is also falling ecologically. So my people are either a pity or a benefit? No one is against the European Union, so that's clear. We've been brought into an impossible situation, into a false dilemma. There is no dilemma of the European Union or ZERP. Both, but politics was bad. Politics was bad. We can't accept such a policy. It puts us in an impossible position to vote for something that people who know best what it means to them, and you know it, Zivko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4388	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4389	Thank you. Here we go again very briefly. Of course, it's not the removal of ZERP, it's the delay in the use of ZERP. Well, people aren't upset, that's what we do here. People understand that well and it is up to us to explain and explain both boredom and future. I used to say it was a plot, and I started right from the beginning, from when it started and how it started. I say again we have the right but we have no right to do more harm than good.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4390	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4391	... Parliament, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! [[Specially enabled.]] I had my first intention of giving up, however precisely because of the need to preserve the integrity of the parliamentary representative, I decided to discuss it because I feel that we for our government are very often the last holes in playing. I'll remind you. The president of our club, party president Zoran Milanovic, has applied for the topic to be included in the February 20th agenda. It's been 21 days for this topic to come to the agenda at 15 hours and 30 minutes, which means that a quality debate cannot be conducted immediately. And that is why I will discuss it because I believe that this assembly cannot represent a secondary place in which the topics come post-festum, but there must also be debated here all topics concerning the lives of people in Croatia, especially when it comes to the European path of Croatia. If we had thought about this earlier, we would not have had a signature by the secretary of state to bring us damages of several billion euros not only because of Italian fishermen but also because of at least two years of delay in entering the European Union. Either ZERP or the European Union in 2009 is another dilemma from the "spin doctor" workshop of the current government, Dr. Sanader. The dilemma is gone, it is true that in 2009, there will be neither the ZERP nor the European Union. Therefore, the only real question is why neither the European Union nor the ZERP will be in 2009. Which is already ZERP. So I'd say the ZERP is the final episode of the debunking, the failure of the current government's diplomacy at the head with the prime minister. They say Croatia is valued. My colleagues and colleagues, Croatia is not the subject of blackmail, neither the European Union nor Slovenia nor Italy. Croatia is a hostage, hostage of the failure of HDZ diplomacy and the signature of State Secretary Biscevic as much as some try to try and prove it is not true. After the 4th of June after the signing of Mr Biscević, the agreed minutes with which, before there was an end to the life of the eco-fishing belt, the international diplomatic indignation of Croatia, the deception of the Croatian public and the saddestinest deception of parliamentary representatives in the past meeting who even made the decision did not know all the facts about the activation of ZERP from 1.1.2008. Afterwards, the HDZ is not implementing the ZERP while at the same time carrying out key reforms that are important for Croatia to enter the European Union to do so all with one goal only, with the goal of winning another mandate at the expense of the Croatian people for the simple reason of slowing down negotiations with the European Union. As heads and their bait, Mr Friscic and Pankretic jumped at the head of the HSS because there has not been a hundred days of 6 billion in the rebirth of the Croatian village, a referendum for NATO, the application of ZERP. They got lost somewhere between the lines as they called it a historic coalition agreement that Croatia had not yet had, but the ZERP issue does not touch. "Crab and Game" is an old catchphrase. In Croatia, 600,000 pensioners survive with 30 kunas a day, so bread is becoming less and less available to them. Prices are rising and a promise from the HDZ pre-election campaign on 7 per cent GDP growth has disappeared, as has that ace from the prime minister's sleeve in the quadrilateral negotiations on ZERP that never happened. In order for us not to think about it all, they offered us a game, let's call it harvesting, a new approach to interpreting the obligation to respect our own signature and commitments. There are no fishermen here today, but we can order dear fishermen, so who's to blame for not having a ZERP or ever will be. It is guilty of the previous and current government of Dr. Sanader because she has promised not to apply the parliamentary decision not to apply the ZERP to members of the European Union, thus giving European partners the argument that we have the right to apply the ZERP, no one has challenged us, but we have denied this right ourselves by signing a harmonised minutes. And that it was true that this was evidence that, at the same time for four years, the Government had not in any way established the organised and systematic surveillance of ZERP, neither made it possible for fishermen to make optimal use of ZERP, did not adopt key regulations on the biological maximum of fish catches in ZERP, in quantities that could be fished out by our fishermen or by quantities of allowable fishing for third countries. Why didn't she bring it? Well, because she knew ZERP would never apply. In the end, what can I conclude? Let's move on, we're really going further and further away from the European Union's 2009 target. We're going to have a hard time making up for the time we've wasted on HDZ. We are waiting for negotiations on many issues that are much more difficult than the ZERP to restructure shipbuilding, justice, administration, corruption, not to mention our internal political concerns about health reform, inflation growth, wage decline and pensions. Some say so today and fellow Matusic deserves authority as he chose. I don't agree with that. Croatian citizens did not deserve such an unprofessional and unworthy government. They deserve a lot better.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4392	Thank you. It's gonna look a long time tonight. On behalf of the government, Minister Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4393	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a few sentences, unfortunately, I had to answer to correct the inaccuracies. I'll make it very clear. Nothing has been lost between the lines, you may not be able to read the budget well, but the budget is very clear on how much will be invested in the Croatian village. Of course, when we wrote and formed a coalition agreement, we predicted all things that it would be all in one ministry than it definitely had to be transferred to some other ministry. And you can see that one part of the funding is in the Ministry of Regional Development. The second part of the funding is clear that it is in the section relating to the Ministry of Education, of course the part relating to the Ministry of Health. I assure you that we will certainly watch over what we have agreed, what we have defined in the coalition agreement and that this part of the money will be invested in the Croatian village anyway. And I must tell you, you mentioned fishermen here today. I've been sitting with my fellow fishermen today, and we've defined things I'd say to those who will happen in the future. In part of the certainly difficult position of fishermen, I think there are a lot of things that the government can do to speed up, it is a real fact, for sure that in that part, the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and Rural Development along with other ministries will make an important effort to make up for them in any case and most directly for the part I would say the damage that will not be possible for them because of the non-implementation in that part of ZERP, which applies to this part, so I can say that these allegations were not accurate and I think that we in the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will also be able to make the most of the account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4394	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4395	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If I understand correctly, the minister said he would make up for what would be lost by not implementing ZERP. As far as I know, the minister comes from a party that thinks ZERP will be implemented. So I don't know if he said it wrong or if it's really going to be ZERP and he just said he wouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4396	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the House Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4397	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. ZERP was introduced, I will remind you once again today, or a decision on the definition of ZERP in late 2003 with a year beginning or with a delay of application of one year. After that, on several occasions, here we are today discussing another delay or suspension or whatever you want but in any case do not apply the ZERP to the member states of the European Union, to the only ones to which it applies. This time not for a year, two or three, but for an entirely indefinite time. The first year of postponement following the decision on ZERP was not taken as I heard here in the Assembly during the afternoon because they were not mature or not acceptable or complex enough international conditions to apply ZERP. On the contrary, that year of delay was then very clearly defined. It took Croatia that year to create conditions for Croatia to monitor, control and really ensure that this space becomes an area of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia. At that time, it was liked to anyone or not to cut off that dilemma from the European Union or Croatia, and then from countries neighbouring countries of Croatia which are members of the European Union, which are Slovenia and Italy exerting some pressure and this pressure is particularly motivated. One country has one interest, the other has another. But in any case Croatia is exposed to pressures someone may say blackmail. I've never seen it as blackmail, and I don't think a country that has its own power should have any pressure and should not be seen as blackmail. However, it has been four years since then. I would probably have a slightly different attitude today, so perhaps I would argue somewhat differently, if in those four years I had recognised the serious efforts of Croatian authorities, the Croatian government, the Croatian parliamentary majority to get out of that chork that is objective in some way trying to get out. I expected today, under the agenda of the Government Report, to say something about it, to find out which way and what was trying to negotiate with Italy and Slovenia, with the European Commission to bridge this objective problem with the application of ZERP. None of that was said. Here we have heard from the government's representatives only a brief report relating to the technical conditions for the ZERP to be applied. What caused the first decision, the first decision on ZERP, to be made, was delayed by one year. We heard we invested something in the fleet, heard something was made around the coast guard. But it's also very objective, and it's not enough for ZERP to come to life and to protect us from the Adriatic, our economic and environmental interests in the true sense of the word. In particular, it is unconvinced that everything has been done in this area, and I will repeat one fact that has also been said, and it will likely be said today that this year's budget for the needs of the fleet's strengthening, the fishing fleet for the correction of conditions has been allocated significantly less funds than it was in the previous budget. Finally, I am asking myself what will be the consequences of the decision not to apply ZERP to members of the European Union, i.e. Italy and Slovenia. Who's going to get it and who's going to lose it? Croatia will surely lose. I think that the European Union will lose too, and that is why I find it very unclear that this policy of insisting Croatia should give up its decision on the application of the ZERP. It will lose the European Union, which has very clear and strict rules on the protection of the fisheries fund and on the ecological protection of European seas. The Adriatic Sea, although Croatia is not a member of the European Union, the European sea and the European Union and the European Commission must have and have the same interest in protecting and the economic and ecological sea. This will not become a European interest until Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. In fact, the only ones who will profit are Italian fishermen who extract unloved fish in the Adriatic Sea, who fish in their ZERP, in their territorial waters and who fish in Croatia's ZERP, and even come into our territorial waters and they don't care. They are interested in their profits, and they are not interested in the long-term aspect of maintaining a constant profit for all fishermen who are supposed to hunt in that sea and all the families that of which, of this economic activity, live. Just before I heard the explanation of Minister Pankretić about how we will in fact in some ways lose, or lose Croatian fishermen. I don't do fishing, but I feel this loss as my loss because I am a taxpayer in this country, so the Croatian government will make up for their loss. Where will the Croatian Government do that? From the budget of the Republic of Croatia. I wish the Ministers had told you here what you did or what the Government did in the previous term that the damage that you already have to suffer if Croatian fishermen have to make up for the European Union. And I am more than convinced that this conversation could have been opened and that we could have had results today and that we could have a national consensus today on the suspension of ZERP. For four years, however, nothing has been done in this respect, nor has anything been done to strengthen the Croatian capacity to control the Adriatic devastation either, or it has seemed minimal. I really don't know if anyone from the former or current Croatian government has ever thought to ask this European Commission, or the European Union, to propose and propose, so that we may discuss this here in the Assembly before, that the European Union regime should be applied to this Croatian and Italian ZERP, i.e. to the Croatian ZERP and before Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. Without any doubt, we could have talked about it by now, and we had to get information about it. Because we estimate that from this decision that will most likely be made today, even though I do not recognise this majority, according to the debates of the club representatives, that it will be made. I do not see that it will benefit anyone other than Italian fishermen, the Italian fishing industry, and therefore cannot agree with the proposal for this decision and bringing Croatia into a position to abolish one regime, to wait indefinitely for the application of the other European regime and until then to raise our hands in the air and allow anarchy in the Adriatic Sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4398	Thank you. We have two corrections and two replicas. First the corrections. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4399	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Antunovic incorrectly said that this year's budget envisioned less kuna for the construction of fishing vessels than it was for the previous one. This year's budget sees 12 million kunas more planned for the construction of fishing vessels. So 12 million kunas more. If that means something to you, then there's something wrong with your account. The second thing, overall for ZERP-related activities, is 217 million kuna which you could hear from Resolute Minister Kalmeta and Mr Pankretić. A third thing, not only to build ships, but to build in Croatian shipyards. Let me remind you, your Home Secretary, Lucin, has given to build ships for the MUP in foreign shipyards. Fortunately, the HDZ had corrected it immediately upon coming to power.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4400	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4401	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic may have misunderstood Minister Pankretic in his address. He pointed out that Croatian fishermen are constantly losing because of this today, but these days also have a conversation with the company of fishermen, because they are constantly in an unequal position when we watch Italian fishermen or others. For example, Italian fishermen don't pay for the bond, they don't have VAT on oil, on boats, and they're still hunting our fish. For this reason, the Croatian Government is seeking together with the restoring ministry, together with a number of fishermen, the possibility of changing the Sea Fisheries Act, as well as other laws to bring our fishermen into an equal position with fishermen coming from the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4402	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first is the replica of the esteemed representative Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4403	I just want to replicate to my colleague, i.e. I'm sorry, the vice presidents of Ms. Antunović, because at first I was just a little angry, as if our government hadn't taken advantage of that moment since 2004, first that it didn't come to the signing of this partnership contract that was defined... In 2004, so when we became practical, that is, when we started negotiations then normally for this, it was already too late, so I wondered why we did not apply, or we did not ask the European Union for us to apply a common fisheries policy that is always agreed at the 12th month where quotas are defined, where incentives are defined, but then I actually got the answer by reading exactly how much fish we fish, how much Italians hunt, or to just lose. Which would be our quota compared to the 30,000 tons of fish caught and I realized that we actually need to take that counterstep, create a fishing fleet, increase fishing. We have received this information today to work, but I agree with you that it is in no way enough that these steps must be far greater precisely in the training and fishing of our fishermen so that tomorrow when we start, when we are in the European Union, when we start to apply both quotas and detimulation that will affect our catch quotas that we really have some sort of result, and I think that here of the two evils should have chosen better.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4404	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished House Vice President Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4405	I really didn't have a p retention with my debate to talk about details of something that I don't have enough information about, and as likely as my colleague, I was just interested in the possibility of that happening at all. I must admit that I have not fully understood your replica, how this regime of the European Union will be unfavourable for Croatia. Because if that's how it's gonna be, then we're standing in front of another bigger, bigger, bigger problem. What I was talking about was the attempt to make any arrangements with Italy and Slovenia as neighbouring countries at bilateral level, but also any attempt to reach an agreement with the European Commission, or the European Union, so that if we already have to suffer and I will repeat it, because I have said, we have received compensation and damages from European funds, and we do not pay that damage from the Croatian budget. Because if we continue to continue exclusively from the Croatian budget, and when it comes to fishing policy, we definitely want to at least base this decision, make up for the damage from the Croatian budget, then we need to know that there will be a little less school, a little less health care, a little less kindergarten or something less, a lot of what is being financed from the lower-class state or budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4406	Thank you. And another replica, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4407	Dear Vice President, I'm surprised that you're surprised or that you're concerned about what needs to be discussed here today, so you said you expected the government to discuss this or what it is today. See that the Government cares about today's debate and that it cares about the opinion of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament then we would not have this situation that we now have in government benches, which is that ZERP, or ZERP's resignation, defends the minister who is against that decision, that is, against the HDZ club's decision and only one secretary of state. If the government really cared about the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament's representative and this topic, then the prime minister would sit here and listen...... There are certainly more important jobs for the Croatian prime minister than to listen to what the representative body of Croatian citizens thinks of ZERP and the European Union. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't know what the more important jobs are. If there are more important jobs, then there should have been a delay in the debate here in the Parliament and should have waited for him to come here, and he's having a hard time with what's going on here in this, because tomorrow's already bigger... Maybe it'd be good. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] I'm just saying someone looks like they're playing with buttons. [[I don't know, I haven't seen him, if I catch him, I'll tell him.]] It would be a good guide to use buttons to write on some on the table. Therefore, I am not surprised by this Government, it does not matter to this Parliament at all, it will meet all the conditions that come from the European Union, where only before the citizens will put a false dilemma or this or the European Union, or this or the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4408	Replica's reply, distinguished Vice-President of the House of Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4409	Thank you, Vice President, for having such a pleasant way of joking with our joint function in the House, and my fellow Mršić, when I think about it, I accept your controversy with me in terms of what is important to the Government, which is more important to her. You are indeed right and you have rightly criticised me for underestimating this aspect, as I have probably underestimated the aspect of consistency or inconsistency in protecting national interests. I probably underestimated this false dilemma about what is more important to us national interest, but I think I did say something about it, and that you will agree that Croatian national interests are not at odds with the current interests of the European Commission and the European Union. It is the protection of the fishing fund and it is the ecological protection of the Adriatic Sea as a European sea and it seems to me that many in this assembly, and many in the European Commission, are more important than the importance of the Croatian Government. But I would not reduce it to the fact as much and who is sitting here in the Parliament, but how much effort is made, but the real effort is made to achieve national consensus, to define the deadlines, but to define the obligations of the Croatian Government that must, if this decision is made, amortise the damage that Croatia will suffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4410	Thank you. Dear Representative Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4411	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Minister. Let me first inform you that I will be shorter than 10 minutes, I will not repeat myself and. I just want to say that there is a question in front of Croatian citizens and, unfortunately, in front of Croatia which is not, which is ZERP or the EU, and we are today ahead of the decision whether we will define ourselves for ZERP or for the EU. I don't think there are any doubts that the expectations of the public and most of the Croatian public expect us to make the right decision. What is saddening is that these days in public there has been a division of ZERP, namely the way ZERP is perceived as a national pride, because it is also a national interest, which is more than a national interest because it is in the category of national pride. It would be very bad yes, and it is very bad to talk about us for ZERP, and let the EU wait, then, etc. As far as ZERP is concerned, I am not going to explain its component, which is fishing, ecological, I just want to say one thing, that at this time, regardless of the effects Croatia has on us, we have not organised a coast guard in practical terms, and if I am well followed, we have not met any fishermen in ZERP, we have controlled, we have punished, or we have not prevented further attacks by fishermen who are daily in ZERP. Therefore, ZERP as such was in this period of power. We expected in 2003 and 2004, when a good decision was made in ZERP that negotiations for the European Union, for the entry into the Union would be negotiated by 1.1.2008 and that, as such, the ZERP would be drowned in the legislation of the European Union, i.e. in the legislation of the sea that exists in the EU and in the ecological and fisheries sectors. But that didn't happen. It also passed in 2006, 2007, also in 2008, and in 2009, we are now practically coming in 2009 with a promise that the process will be negotiated in 2009 and that we will be ready to join the European Union. It is our interest to join the European Union and I will say first if we opt for ZERP I must say this myself for it and I believe that Croatia is the place and the only way out in its situation of further development of the European Union. Insisting on ZERP and national pride, we can also do so, but tomorrow citizens should be told that after a day, or post-festum begins the life of the bank are in the hands of Europe, or foreigners, depending on imports, energy is imported, etc. Therefore, we can only imagine or rather not imagine what would happen to the economy and Croatia. On the other hand, entering the European Union is a question of whether it will happen in 2009 or whether we will be ready. Based on the experience we have so far, and the stalemate is in a negotiation blockade, diplomacy has not done its job. I must also emphasise the support that I have seen, with which the government boasted and supported it in Europe, and especially in that part of the European People's Party, etc., unfortunately we see that people are concerned only with their interests, when it comes to their interest they have committed themselves to their interest. So now we're here. It is up to us, or you as authorities, to communicate and talk with citizens. We can't talk about it without communicating with the citizens. The Croatian Parliament deserves to be fully in the process, it is unacceptable that the Croatian Parliament is the last instance here for the evening, tonight to discuss, on such a crucial issue, that the entire Croatian public today expects what the Croatian Parliament will decide. So, to put it short, we don't have any guarantee whether or not we're going to speak in 2009. I must remind you that he was a Polish president in Croatia, don't take my word for it and correct that he mentioned some in 2012, 2015, that he was now Swedish president, I think he was in Belgrade, that he mentioned that he was hearing from the halls in 2012, 2015, he mentioned a package, etc. We therefore do not have too much optimism based on work so far and the way diplomats and negotiators have done the job and on what is currently happening in Europe and the problems facing the European Union do not have too much optimism and I personally do not believe that the Croatian government and the Croatian Government will be able to successfully do the job. The least we can do is communicate and talk with citizens in Croatia, that citizens have timely information and that the Croatian Parliament is fully... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sorry, I don't usually get into words. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4412	Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4413	There he is. I end up here, I don't think I stole ten minutes from you, but the Croatian public needs to be made clear and loud that the work you took, which you were supposed to do, you didn't do.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4414	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it looks like the SDP has decided to talk all night... A colleague says we haven't intercepted any fishermen since the start of the ZERP application. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear the speaker, you can't turn it off.]] Only in January did we intercept 21 fishermen, only in January 21 fishermen. He says a colleague of the Swedish president in Belgrade said that Croatia will not until 2012 or 2015. ... It's not about the Swedish president, read a little more carefully the newspaper, and you'll see that it's about the Swedish ambassador, that's a big difference. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear the speaker, you can't turn it off.]] You know, the ambassador in one country I'm talking about has no weight on the president. And another thing. Our friends from the European Puke party are very supportive of the Croatian path towards the European Union. You will also see this in the vote of this resolution in the European Parliament. And as for the year of entry, the European Commission is also talking about the conclusion of the negotiations in 2009 and the European Parliament, which is willing to accept Croatia as an equal member of the European Union in this conference. Don't tell the truth, really.../Speaker off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4416	Thank you. Dear Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4417	Okay? Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today in the Croatian Parliament, we are talking about national interests, something that we should agree on in Parliament. We are talking about ZERP, Croatia's accession to the European Union. Both topics are of national interest. Unfortunately, because of the non-transparent policy of the Croatian government today, we are in a situation where these two topics are in conflict and we have a choice. Or ZERP or at least a lot of problems in the negotiations in the Republic of Croatia? What's this all about? Maybe because of lack of vision, inconsistency, maybe something else. We all remember Prime Minister Sanader's statement in 2003 and 2004, when he said that although we are in a sensitive situation, there is no delay in the application of the zone, no one can pressure Croatia not to declare an economic belt and that this is based on the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is older than all decisions of the European Union. We could then take on the defence of the Prime Minister Sanader and say that he had not yet led Croatia. We could say that we believe him to be honest then, but something happened in mid-2004. After he came to power, a turn happened. The government sent state secretary Biscevic to reach an agreement with our partners in Brussels. And what has Mr. Biscevic agreed? He really fought hard for Croatian interests in front of the Croatian government. Here's a quote from the record. "After the meeting, Italian and Slovenian state secretaries welcomed the suspension of all aspects of the protected ecological and fishing belt to EU member states. They expressed their opinion that this should apply until a joint agreement in the EU is reached in the spirit, taking into account the interest of neighbouring EU countries." So he really took great care of our interests. Years passed and the government re-changed its position on the ZERP issue. At the end of 2006, the prime minister said on HTV, regardless of which government was in effect since 1 January. The ZERP shall enter into force for EU member states. Otherwise, it is already in force, but since 1 January 2008, it also stands for EU members. What is the issue in that statement? Or the prime minister didn't know that we were in a position to be inconclusive of what he had promised, which is bad if he didn't know or deliberately shut up that it was inconclusive because it was an election year and thus manipulated Croatian citizens, which I find unforgivable. What does Europe want? He doesn't want anything too much. He just wants us to stick to the commitments we've taken. What's weird about that? Who made us agree to some things to speed up negotiations? It is not Europe's fault, we are not valued as Prime Minister Sanader said the other day or today, Mr Friscic. It's our policy that brought us into this situation, the tampering and incompetence. The SDP is to join the European Union as quickly as possible. The prime minister told us today that if we adopt these conclusions of the HDZ Club today, we will conclude negotiations by 2009. Why should we believe that? Is it because our diplomacy is effective? Because we haven't gone into over ten negotiating chapters yet. I don't believe that. I am extremely sorry about this because I think that because of this inefficient policy of our government that cannot be put into this situation, Croatia and its citizens will not become members of the European family so quickly. And what do we lose by neula in the European Union, for example? Following the accession of the European Union, there has been an acceleration of economic growth in all new Member States. The biggest increase in GDP was recorded in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Almost all countries have achieved higher rates of economic growth. The average economic growth in all new members of the European Union was 4.5% to grow to 6%. Before accession, in countries that joined the European Union, the average gross nominal salary was 578 euros per employee, followed by 633 euros. Finally, we are losing our ability to be part of the European Union, which is our country's greatest interest. And unfortunately, gentlemen, we won't have it because of the HDZ and the current government. Europe has said no to our current policy, which today is about: Today you promise something, and tomorrow you don't follow it. You're saying something today, and you're changing attitudes by 180% tomorrow. It does not pass in the European Union, and I hope it will not pass in our space soon. I feel like we've lost a lot of time in these last four years of HDZ authorities, that we should be at the door today ready to join the European Union. We weren't listening here today... Mr. Vice President! [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4418	I pray peace in the assembly, without throwing away.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4419	I'm asking you not to throw Mr. Matusic. Today we haven't heard much about the ZERP itself, we haven't talked too much about fishing and destroying our fish fund in our sea. We haven't talked too much about our sea being ecologically endangered. We did not talk about the fact that both Slovenia and Italy declared ecological zones after we declared ZERP and that now that we put it out of force their zone will remain in force. It's all the consequences of HDZ and the bad policies of the current government. Being in power doesn't mean messing around, doesn't mean going in a line of less resistance, doesn't mean changing decisions four times in four years. Being good at power means having a vision and having the strength to carry out that vision. This government doesn't have that vision and power is even less. That is why I am not optimistic, no matter what decision we make today, that Croatia will successfully and quickly pass its path to the European Union with such a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4420	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4421	My colleague, this Croatian government has its vision of entering the European Union and it is clear... Therefore, it is not true that he has no vision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She made it clear, and she even said hodogram by which date we would enter and how we would enter, etc. But unfortunately, it doesn't seem like you've had any idea what your government's been doing yet. If it had been done the way your government did then today Croatia would have been without its territory, it probably wouldn't have existed at all. In the way you gave up territory and in Savudrija rains and unfortunately down related to Prevlaka etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4422	Thank you. Please don't throw it out of the bench. Replica esteemed representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4423	So you asked your colleague Maras justifiably whether we could trust Prime Minister Sanader when he said today that giving up ZERP would speed up negotiations and that by 2009, we would join the European Union. It's just that it's really a question of whether it's true. No one but him knows, and we haven't seen a phonogram or a tone of conversation with Ollie Rehn. We don't know what Olli Rehn said to Prime Minister Sanader and what Prime Minister Sanader said to Olli Rehn and promised Olli Rehn. And does giving up on ZERP really mean we're going to speed up the negotiations or not. We only had a month ago a situation in which the prime minister assured us that the quadrilaterals would have such negotiations that he had an ace in his sleeves that he would pull out of his sleeve and that he would arrange all this and that there was no problem with both the EU and the ZERP. And then when the media space in Croatia has been polluted enough and the citizens have been disgusted enough with all of this, there has now been a dilemma either by the EU or by the ZERP. And now it's said that if we give up on ZERP, then tomorrow we'll jump right into the European Union. However, the problem will be next, even if this happens, the problem will be next, we will disgust the European Union for our citizens and not enter the European Union Republic of Croatia. Citizens enter the European Union, they must give their vote to join the European Union in the referendum. And we will be in a situation where, by blackmailing citizens like this, they have to give up this or that to join the European Union in the referendum, they say no, we do not want to join such a European Union. So it really raises the question of what Prime Minister's words we can trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4424	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4425	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. I must say, Mr. Lobster, that if you listened more carefully to Mr. Matusic, he said that 2000. The SDP government did not defend national interests. I would say that this very government defended the national interests of introducing us in 2000 from the isolation in which the HDZ Government left us in the European Union, into European integration. And if that government remained in power in 2003, they would already be very close to the European Union. And unfortunately she didn't stay. And the vision of the current HDZ government reminds me of that prime minister three, four years ago... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4426	Thank you. I would ask that we choose words, expressions, and so on. The Honorable Vice President of the House of Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4427	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. It was unnecessary three weeks without the government reacting to the SDP's search for a SDP club to discuss a solution for stalemate, blockade, crisis or whatever you want to call it in our negotiations with the European Union. Three months have passed needlessly and the government has not responded responsibly to the clear messages of the European partners on the impact of the ZERP on accession negotiations. Unnecessarily, four years have passed and the government has actually done very little of what it was meant to do in order to be able to benefit from the application of the ZERP. How are we in accession negotiations with the European Union? The answer is we stand well with the emphasis on standing, and we stand in place not only because we have not yet met any of the existing criteria for closing fourteen open negotiating chapters, but also because our diplomacy has not been able to deal with the members of the Union that bilateral issues with Croatia have persistently been used to push down multilateral negotiating dynamics. And considering all of this, it is natural to conclude that it is high time for the government to finally take serious action in two directions, on the diplomatic and political resolution of this negotiating blockade and on the acceleration and completion of reforms without waiting for someone from Brussels to tell us what is happening at home and what should be done. And here, today, the government is trying to resolve at least the first necessary assumption to continue the negotiation process. The prime minister came to the assembly today, and with considerable delays, he said since the four-sided negotiations with the European Union there is nothing, we must choose either the ZERP or the European Union. Let's choose the European Union. It also offers a parliamentary decision to postpone the application of ZERP to members of the Union. This time, fortunately, there are no strange beaks but there are some European spirits that seem equally strange in the legal text of the parliamentary decision. So what now? Should we clap on a rescue solution or ask ourselves why and why we are facing such an uninvited choice today? Bad politics and poor diplomacy have led us to choose today between two important national interests. It's a dilemma it shouldn't have come to. The government is leading a policy without strategic thinking and forecasting and has therefore missed the opportunity to achieve both the ZERP and the European Union. And worse still, the government has put us in a situation where Croatia does not actually have a ZERP, nor the European Union, and it assures us that we must choose between them and that is why today, we here have the right to ask the Government to answer the question of who is responsible and what has changed in the European Union's position in relation to the end of 2006 when the prime minister assured the public that the application of the ZERP to members of the European Union will not lead to a blockade of negotiations. The answer to this question must be given not to the SDP but primarily to the Croatian public and Croatian fishermen who, as well as the SDP, rightly expected the government to be able to ensure the overall and effective application of the ZERP without jeopardising the dynamics of our approach to the European Union. The answer to that question is clear to me. The previous and current government of Dr. Eve Sanader. She's responsible because for four years she hasn't done any of the four important things that were really necessary for ZERP to actually live. Within four years of the ZERP declaration, no organised systematic surveillance has been established at ZERP, it is not possible for our fishermen to use ZERP better and optimally. No diplomatic dispute has been resolved with the Union on the application of the ZERP to the members of the Union and no key rules on maximum catches, catches that our fishermen may make and quantities of overfishing allowed for third countries have been adopted. Today, the prime minister had to declare the character of a harmonised 2004 minutes, which the government had promised by way of its constitutional powers that the parliament would not change its decision not to apply the ZERP to members of the Union. It must recognise that although it does not constitute an international and legal commitment, it has nevertheless created an international-political commitment to Croatia. Since in four years he has failed to convince the European partners that the multiple circumstances under which the obligation has been signed have been changed, he must now make it clear to the Croatian public that because of this unfortunately agreed minutes, we cannot apply ZERP to members of the European Union if we want to join the European Union. This is the real cause of all the problems in relations with the European Union because of the ZERP, not some alleged blackmail or opposition from the European Union, that we exercise our international right to the ZERP, which is persistently placed as a false alibi and a withdrawal for reform and negotiation potential failure. We've come dangerously close to an extorted solution. It's a situation where the government shouldn't have brought us. I point out that here we are not really choosing between the European Union and the ZERP, but between the European Union and the ZERP fiction created and supported by the Government. We do not choose between the European Union and the ZERP here, but between the European Union and the changing prime minister and the government for the fourth time. For me, it is unquestionable that the European Union is a long-term, generational priority and a real, national interest. But that priority won't come true by itself if we give up on ZERP. The government needs much more to do on reforms, not just postpone the application of the ZERP, and therefore the vote of all those who will vote to take the decision proposed by the Government by the Croatian public will not recognise this vote as a vote for HDZ or as a vote for the suspension of the ZERP for members of the Union, but as a vote for the suspension of such a incompetent government. This is the outcome that political leadership in power has only led to its diplomatic failures and governance failures. They make us unfortunately faced with both the ZERP and the European Union. We could now try to change that fact by voting for a decision to keep ZERP in force for all states. But if we choose ZERP today and not the European Union, Croatia with such a government would not have a ZERP so easily and quickly. Because this government obviously could not change the European Union's views and could not implement such a decision since in fact it gave up ZERP in 2004. And that is why responsibility for how this issue of ZERP must continue to be borne by the ruling coalition. The opposition cannot help it, voted for the ZERP or for the European Union. If the majority vote today to postpone ZERP from this place, it is important to say and ask the Government not to allow the ZERP delay for the members of the Union to be the end of the ZERP story. The adoption of this forced decision should, in advance, be linked to the opening of the fisheries chapter as part of the accession negotiations. In these negotiations, Croatia can then request that fisheries in the ZERP be managed and supervised by the regulation of the common fisheries policy of the European Union before we enter into the membership of the European Union. The application of the European fisheries regulator to Croatian and European fishermen in ZERP can ensure the sustainability of fish resources, as well as financial support for fishermen, as well as the integrated ecological protection of the Adriatic. Finally, we do not want to support the impression that ZERP is the only real problem of our negotiations with the European Union. It is enough that such an impression tries to create a ruling coalition. ZERP will get rid of it one way or another, and it will remain the need, better say the necessity of speeding up and completing reforms and adapting for a better life in Croatia. We have to do this job on our own. None of the countries chairing the European Union, nor all the members of the Union together or individually, nor will any European Commissioner be able to speed up our negotiations so that they are now moving faster than reforms. We must not underestimate the job of adapting and preparing for membership, we must not delay it. We should discuss it here in the Croatian Parliament and agree if this demanding reform work is completed no longer than one year from today. The prime minister, government and state administration are on the move. They need to speak, act and decide. Croatia no longer has time, no will only to listen to assurances that HDZ best knows how to defend national interests. As HDZ has already failed to prove this on the example of ZERP, Croatia is waiting and hopes that the coalition government will show this in action, for example reform and adaptation as a true national interest that needs to be achieved and defended. And hope dies last! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4428	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, after your stepmate, I wouldn't say the beaks disappeared. As far as incorrect allegations are concerned, you know very well that it is not true that we are standing in a place like you said, because the government has not met the criteria for opening new chapters or closing the old ones. That's what you said. Therefore, and for opening. Oh, yeah. You are well aware that the government has met the criteria, but because of the fact that we have begun to apply the ZERP of a particular Member State, it is holding back. So it's holding us back in the opening of the chapter. You know that very well. The second thing, you said it wasn't possible for our fishermen to use ZERP better. Construction of 46 fishing vessels is the best step taken by this government, the government of Dr. Sanader. It's the best proof that she's done everything she can to make better use of ZERP. And thirdly, to help the opposition, and especially to help the SDP defend national interests. Comrade Mimica, we do not expect any help from you today as we did not expect in 91 when you left Parliament when the vote on... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4430	Thank you. Please don't throw it out of the bench. Please stop. Let's move on. You didn't get your word from your colleague Linic, and please refrain. You didn't get the word. Let's move on. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4431	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The first thing I'd like to clarify... Are we moving on or are we going down? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Get down! If I'm not mistaken, we have a debate brought together on two different proposals and documents. One government report on what it has done so far on negotiations with the European Union and the ZERP, and another document on which we should discuss is the proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community club to postpone the application of the ZERP. So if I'm right, Mr. Vice President... Mr. Vice President, am I right to have a united discussion?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4432	Please, you have no right to ask me by the Rules of Procedure that I answer to you. Please continue your discussion until I have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4433	I have no right under my Rules of Procedure, but I am entitled to the contents of Mr. Vice President. But, then, if we're discussing the government's report, what she's done so far. Counting chapters and criteria on closed, open and prepared chapters, we have 18 times as many criteria as unopened or prepared negotiating chapters. And as for the ZERP chronology, as for the Government's proposal to the SDP Club, I would like to say that chronology in today's paper is five times as high as what the government has passed on to the Croatian Parliament. Secondly, the proposal for a decision amending the Decision extending the jurisdiction and application of the ZERP. who is to blame for having to discuss it again? Does anyone know where Prime Minister Sanader is? Will the Prime Minister come to the hall and answer my question who's to blame? Please explain it to me and when I understand it, I assure you that every fool in Croatia will understand it. Fourth time, just laugh. For the fourth time, the Croatian Parliament is discussing ZERP, adopting and delaying its application. Always for other reasons, other excuses and other arguments. It is Brussels, Ljubljana, Rome or Zagreb. Some resident Olli Rehn should have come to Zagreb to tell us that something with a decision was wrong. Then it was Ljubljana for two days because those two of their fish carts, one and two fish, are a great danger to fish in the Adriatic. Then it was Rome because they were actually the most hunted in ZERP and we couldn't get into trouble in Zagreb. On 15 December 2006, colleagues from HDZ who were not in the Assembly at the time, the Croatian People's Party club was the only opposition club that supported the government's proposal to postpone application to 1.1.2008 by handling three wishes and interests. In that time, to train the fishing fleet, to establish a coast guard, form a fish market, and then it won't take a Navy gunner to force the Italian fisherman from ZERP. And that's when the prime minister said that this would happen. In June of last year, when the budget rebalance was made and four points of our conclusions were implemented in the budget rebalancing, and the Coast Guard Act came only in September and, apart from the law and two half-rules of the Government on the recovery and launch of the Coast Guard, there is nothing left. It's probably as funny to you as it was to HDZ representatives on October 3rd, 2007 when I said on behalf of the club down by the pay phone: One such topic, one such situation is at hand, someone may be funny but someone may explain in four months why Croatia must not activate ZERP again from 1.1 next year. Someone will have to explain to someone what is now with Parliament's decision to be activated, and yesterday's message from Brussels is but slowly, we will slow down the negotiations. 3 October 2007 There was a cry on this side of the hall. Don't worry, there'll be both the ZERP and the European Union. There will be no ZERP or the European Union if you continue to treat those who are then and now with their amendments, and then the proposals of the conclusion tried to help the Government of the Republic of Croatia come out of the triangle. You can unwittingly verify all the efforts of the opposition in this House, but the responsibility will be on you if... To the end. [[You don't understand.]] Recently, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent non paper to Brussels. What does it say? When we discussed in December 2006, did anyone in this Chamber know about the minutes of 4 June 2004 signed by Hidajet Biščević, the secretary of state in Brussels? No one and the prime minister knew, and all the ministers kept it from Parliament. So what does it say in the non-paper? What the government has sent to Brussels and has committed, and that today the Croatian Parliament must not, has no right to know what is written there again. Will that document appear on the foreign ministry's website after two years? My colleague Friscic said they're in, and then they're against it, and I don't understand what they're up against anymore? My colleague, Chehok, was decidedly clear. He's got his pants and his pants on, and he's topless, and I understand that. I hope that he did not remain a nudist and that when we vote, we will see who is in topless and who is without it. We have proposed an amendment to the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club. But esteemed colleagues and colleagues, this is for the first time in four and a half years that I am in this House that Parliament is discussing one proposal from a club of representatives that is not the opinion of the government. What is the government's opinion on the HDZ Club proposal? It has never been allowed until now to be a point of agenda and debate in Parliament about the proposal of any club unless it has the government's opinion. We're discussing a proposal for a club that's legitimate, but we don't know the government's opinion about it. And that's why I want to tell you, as long as we don't hear Mr. Minister and State Secretary, which is the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal for a decision of the HDZ Club and on our amendment to that proposal, we won't, I will personally not support any decision until you meet the business form of this House in order to create the conditions before the vote. You've never allowed any president of the Parliament, not one chairman to open the debate, to vote without having received a written statement from the government about the proposal of the club of MPs. And I demand the government's written statement on our amendment to the HDZ Club's proposal if you want us to take part in the vote. If you don't want to, you don't have to. You don't have to. Of course you don't have to. That's clear to me. But no more discussion about who's nudist and who's topless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4434	Your Honor! The government will manifest itself on your amendment during the vote, and that is how it stands in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4435	It stands before the vote in the Rules of Procedure. Before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4436	During the time, it means before you join the vote...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4437	Before the vote, Vice President, before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4438	Well, you've been in the Parliament long enough to know that, that's one thing. And the other thing I wanted to tell you, when a man loses his underpants it's not topless.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4439	Then what?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4440	Let's move on. Dear Representative Anto Djapic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4441	My colleagues and colleagues! Listening to tonight's "Dnevnik" on HTV and a brief review of what has been said about ZERP in recent years, we have had the opportunity to see that on 14 January 2008, therefore, very categorically, our Prime Minister Sanader, the prime minister of our Croatian government, has been very categorically and without any restraint guaranteeing that ZERP will be held to a point. However, many of us were perfectly clear not only that 14 January 2008 but also in the autumn of 2007 that we will be gathered very quickly at such a session as this one tonight and that all of us will, more or less, stutter in the past, eliminate one Croatian political fiction, one great deception, one myth on which the current ruling team has been creating a picture of their busyness for so-called years. higher national interest. A so-called National interests are not colleagues and colleagues only fish, planktons and algae in the area along our territorial seas, the national interest in the first order in me is, although there is no Mr. Hebrang here, the pride and dignity of the people in this House as we like to say it. And in our commentation on ZERP, I see first and foremost that this national interest is at stake. And when I say this, I want to be completely clear and completely specific. The pride and dignity of the people I speak of is not taken from us by Europe, neither by our neighbours Slovenians nor by Italians, nor by the white-world powers or by euro officials. No, gentlemen, this pride and dignity is tearing down our unconvincing and irresponsible Croatian policy and this policy of those who would gain or retain their share of power and their rule without any scruples, first impose as the highest-class and supreme national interest one question, which build their political rise on this thing and know that they can't and will not ensure it as it was known in the fall of 2006. And then calmly, dead, the cold come into this high house and say that this great thing has actually become a big nothing. And with the same gleam as they assured us that it was a great thing, with equal ferocity, they assure us that it was a great nothing. And here's my colleague and colleague, it seems to me that this ZERP is becoming a kind of paradigm, a pattern, a way of managing and ruling and a political activity that might even outlive this government. I am not sure that again in Croatian politics will be able to talk about the so-called higher national interests, and that citizens will not think about the ZERP and the large national topics on which people's emotions are raised. If we don't forget this story about ZERP, then it'll be the only benefit of this debate that we've been having all day and night. If the execution of lies in politics comes to light, and if we show ZERP-ization as the inadmissible political manipulation of people's most patriotic feelings, then this debate today will not be in vain. My colleagues and colleagues, it has been pointed out here many times today. We are offered a dilemma here, like, or even worse blackmail, as if it were either the EU or the European Union or the ZERP. It's not a real dilemma and I don't think we should talk about this fake dilemma today. At this point, it is only an excuse to draw attention from the true dilemma that should be discussed in this House, and it is a dilemma between serious and credible policies or political and Balkanoid hostels. Between that we, colleagues and colleagues, must choose. This, first of all, means responsibility for signing an international document that we sign on behalf of our country and our own free will, and secondly, it means tampering, extraction, extraction and withdrawal. This is the true dilemma we face, and it is a real challenge for all responsible people who can and can deal with politics in this country. We must finally seek responsibility in Croatia for policymaking, for what politicians do or do not do. This responsibility is the first step not only for the extraction of political transfiguration and irresponsibility but also for the first step out of the cynicism in which our entire society was flooded, as a devastating quiet and universal thesis, there is nothing more to be done and can be done and in fact decide everything else, the other decides on everything important. It is true that colleagues and colleagues, it is absolutely unnecessary to ignore the fact that we are a country that makes up only 0.5% of Europe's territory, 0.5% of Europe's population, and incomparably less Europe's gross social product. But it is also important against this megalomania not to underestimate the country's own potential and citizens. Political trust, colleagues and colleagues, contrary to what is thought to be done and achieved by the PR, spin doctors and such a type has its limited power. Politics drained from the value of ideas and ideals remains only a mere interesting shell, and what remains and has value requires vision, perseverance, consistency, imagination and discipline. And what kind of message do we send to political perversions like they did in the ZERP case? Every day we tell every child in this country that they are successful and that they can be, or that they are, not those who are persistently, consistently and honestly, but those who cheat and cheat, I would say like those train matches and who do nothing honestly, and for everything they do wrong, blame others. These are messages sent by our policy to our citizens. I know that the appeals of the world will not change, and I therefore do not appeal, but I do not think we are obliged to demand the responsibility of all of you government gentlemen who have sworn and assured us that the highest national interest is precisely the protection of fish and water along our territorial seas, who assured us that this is our legal right to which the United Nations resolution gives us, that it is the same right that has been consumed by other countries and at the same time you knew that by your signature you definitely gave up that right and that and such a defined highest interest, which is what you gentlemen have silenced us and of this kind of responsibility you cannot be free of. So what do we do now? And what can we do now? First of all, the president of the country must ask for an apology, not because what was promised had failed, but because it had been falsely promised with premeditation, it was known three months ago that there would be nothing from ZERP. Why is this responsibility important? Taking responsibility means recognising responsibility as a virtue, as a value and as a principle of conduct, because if we do not take responsibility for what has been done so far, nothing in the future that is promised will be convincing, nor will this be considered a first-class national interest in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4442	Thank you. Dear Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4443	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try to shorten this debate of mine. The fact is, we're in a special moment, no matter what the moment is, it's not as dramatic as what it is here today trying to show. The public is sensitive to the problem that we're talking about today, but the moment is when our emotions are being taken from both sides, no matter how it seems tonight or during this afternoon. Now that ZERP's on the table, we're back on some kind of trial. When Mr Rehn says either the European Union or ZERP, the emotional response is ZERP, but let us remember the difficult moment in both the older and the recent Croatian history, especially in the 1990s, which the prime minister also talked about this morning when we made very difficult decisions that we always didn't like very much and where those decisions were certainly contrary to the emotions that we were having at the time. But the state was created, preserved, defended. Today, we can compare this with the European Union. Today, Croatia, we have to say it openly here, can't continue to postpone the ZERP, but also to the respected colleague Vidovic who said we didn't apply. We've applied it. It's in effect until tonight, 72 days. So ZERP is still in use, you can't say it hasn't been applied, and the circumstances are what they are. The fact that it is a national pride, and we agree that it is a national pride, but the European Union is also a national pride, but in politics obviously, as you see and know for yourself, and that you would react equally on this side. It needs to be wise, rational, so I will say here and respect the will of the chairman of that union that we have spoken of many times today because only by their will some chapters are opened or closed. We are also aware of that, and when we said no today and that would mean no to the European Union then we would say maybe not to NATO, we would have disturbed everything we have done so far regarding NATO. You know that all members must confirm our entry into NATO and it should certainly be taken into account no matter what I understand that it may be more comfortable to speak out of opposition. Still, where we stand before a decision or a doubt. Acceleration of negotiations and their completion until the end of October, until the term of office of the European Commission in 2009 or, nevertheless, delay, blockage and uncertainty, and we must decide on some of this. And no one can convince us here today that we are not of common national interest both to the ZERP and to the European Union but we must decide between the two. And we've heard that more than once this afternoon. At this point, we are opting for a greater national interest, and that is the European Union that you agree with, and you have said it several times. ZERP has unfortunately become one of the main topics or main reasons for the impasse in our negotiations but not the only one, we have talked about it many times. The common goal is to open all chapters, which we talked about last week when we adopted the National Programme for Harmonisation of Croatian Laws with European legislation. And if I can ask one question. For example, whether the situation in the judiciary or the situation in any chapter will prove to be a new cause of the suspension of negotiations. That shouldn't happen. So it's up to us to move both in the Parliament and in the Government, and on all state bodies to reform everything we talked about last time and we talked about 121 laws, we talked about 350 sublegal acts. It's up to us to really implement these reforms, to pass the laws, to implement them, because if we don't, then we're going to reopen a debate like tonight. We think we need to stick to the dynamics and we need to fulfill what's in front of us right now. And as for fisheries issues, environmental issues, it is certain that this problem is particularly fishing in other Mediterranean countries, and in this direction it is spoken and worked in the new European Commission rules, a new document is being created on which the Commission is still working, which will support the unprecedented exploitation in all Mediterranean seas and so on in the Adriatic. In any case, I'm deciding tonight of course on the government's position here this morning, this afternoon during Prime Minister Sanader's presentation. As for this amendment, the amendment Mr. Lesar of the HNS has already been incorporated in the opening presentation of Mr. Prime Minister when he said that we would try and level Croatian fishermen' status with the status of European fishermen. Of course, this does not apply to the area of ZERP but to the area of all fishermen in the European Union. Here, in any case, giving up on ZERP in any case at this time is the only thing that is acceptable and I think it should be in the European spirit as it says in the recommendation, as it says in the light of this decision we must continue negotiations with Italy and Slovenia and that is the only way we can get out of this crisis situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4444	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4445	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'd like to correct just one quote from my esteemed colleague Shuice when she said that ZERP was on the table. That's an incorrect quote. ZERP is on its knees and there are fish on the table, mostly on the Italian table.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4446	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4447	Your Honor, Mr. President. counterpart Shuica said, quote: "If we told the HDZ proposal today, that would not mean either to the European Union and possibly to NATO.". That's just not true. It is an attempt to turn this into a referendum for the European Union or against the European Union. It has nothing to do with reality. We speak no and say loudly to the Government who in this way incompetently brings the complete Croatia and us to the Assembly in an impossible situation and in a false dilemma whether we are for ZERP or the European Union. We're for each other and against this kind of policy that brought us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4448	Thank you. Mr. Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4449	President-in-Office of the Parliament, fellow MPs and MPs. This game of the European Union and the Republic of Croatia reminds me a little of that cartoon "Tom & Jerry". In this case, it would certainly be the Republic of Croatia and Jerry would, of course, be the European Union. Poor Tom, every time he gets in a situation to catch Jerry, he gets away with him and he stays short-sleeved. So whenever we get close to the European Union, something gets stuck, and from time to time we start from scratch, from time to time. Today in the introduction, our prime minister spoke, several times mentioning the Homeland War, which led me to go this way and order. Unlike our foreign policy, thanks to God, the Croatian Army has responded responsibly to the difficult task it has received. President of the Parliament, give us a little tap with that bell to wake up some of our MPs. The Croatian army freed the country by fighting and killing mercilessly. There was no doubt in front of us "Storm" or the European Union. And if there was that doubt, I believe our commanders would have been able to answer and that they would have done it to me according to these tasks and done it to me. We fought for a better life, for freedom, for democracy and all those qualities that grace the European Union. We fought for the European Union. If we had failed to carry out those tasks, we would have been the soldiers who were responsible for carrying out those same tasks. They'd probably be removed, excommunicated, incompetent, and so forth. Personally, if I hadn't succeeded, and if my people had died because of my wrong decisions, I would have retreated, and I would have solved it militaryly because I love Croatia, because I couldn't live with shame. What happens to people who make decisions in peace and make mistakes. Nothing, they put on a new mask and move on. I mean people who ran and implemented foreign policy. First, our people became convinced that there was no delay in the negotiations, honey and milk flow simply. When you suddenly choose – ZERP or European Union. For God's sake, we fought for each other and I don't want to choose, I don't want to be in a position to choose for what's both a national interest. What our boys have been doing these past few years. Why didn't we offer any new solution? Come on, close the door, get out! Why didn't we predict this situation today and block the negotiations? Why didn't they analyze, evaluate, tactile? Why wait for the last moment and improvise? There's a thousand why. I wonder if we have people capable of something like that. I'm mad at our diplomacy that couldn't solve this problem. If the Croatian Army had dealt with problems in the war this way, Knin would still be in Republika Srpska and it would still have worked, and we here would have no idea what they were talking about. I'm sure we wouldn't be talking about ZERP today. This doesn't seem like a tactical retreat, a grouping of forces. This is four zeroes for the European Union as our Prime Minister Sanader paints it. When I look back a little bit, I wonder what are the latest successes of our most important foreign policy. In my opinion, one is that the Republic of Croatia has become a non-permanent member of the Security Council, and it is absolutely the success of the merits of the government, the President of the Republic and all those working on it. In my opinion, second success, anyway. In my opinion, the second success is locating Gotovina and his Spanish arrest. Of course, credit for this also comes from the government. Who will bear orders and personal responsibility for this blasphemy? Who's to blame? I personally don't want to choose. I do not want to give up on the ZERP or the European Union. Why diplomacy didn't find a solution. Well, the prime minister himself has personally pointed out no blackmail, no impediment to negotiation. Why was it lying? Why are you lying to the people? I'm gonna pee on this policy. It's not gonna be good. I don't see long-term visions here, strategies. Every serious state has a plan of action, a plan of action, always has several prepared variants of existing problems. What do we have? Nothing. We're acting as irresponsible people, as children, but we're advocating seriousness, expertise, selling fog in these suits and ties here in the Parliament, and what now? How to explain to citizens that ZERP was shorter than Storm, Operation Storm. ZERP and Krajina fell, and we, I suggest that the President of the Parliament put up a banner or sign “every day in every respect we are increasingly ashamed.” I'm going to say a few more sentences about this material I got today. That's where I read it. I'll read it. The protected ecological and fisheries band of the Republic of Croatia will not be applied temporarily to the Member States of the European Union as of 15 March 2008. And this is the most important thing to come up with a common agreement in the EU. What's a ghost? What kind of spirit is that? Is that the spirit you take or leave? Is it the spirit “who is stronger with that clutch ”? Is it the spirit of "drug alcohol"? I don't know what that means here. I also suggest that it be not March 15th. Make it April 1st. Since I don't like to call on great Croatianism, nor often did I, I didn't like to hear it while I was following Parliament before, so fellow Matušić, who is not here, just before I was distracted by that remark. But I didn't see him on my Cuckoos down at Dubrovnik in '91, '92. A year, and one thousand Sinjans were. And finally, here's one sentence I'm going to end up with the guy who died, so I'm going to say, "We're not going to give it away, we're not going to give ours!" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4450	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4451	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I have to, otherwise I didn't mean to say anything, but I have to tell my colleague Kotromanovic. I think it turns out you're saying someone's lying to the people here. I think it turns out the government is lying to the people. I don't think that's true. It's true that some of this when other things do political scandals to make their foreigners grow ratings and charges would actually want to create what they didn't do otherwise, and that's irresponsible. It's also untrue to lie because you can't lie. We ZERP won't suspend. He's not postponing indefinitely. It will remain in force, but will temporarily remain in place until a common solution is defined and agreed to be applied to the member states of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4452	Mr. Arsen Bauk, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4453	Article 209 said it was untrue not to lie. It is in itself very illogical and untrue in itself, and Mr. President, I appreciate your tolerance for those who violate the Rules of Procedure. But in line with the statements of Vice-President of Mr. Shakespeare's House, I suggest you creatively interpret it, so if you consider that someone instead of correcting the quote has abused the replica to give your colleagues the opportunity to answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4454	If you were creatively interpreting the Rules of Procedure, then you would have received a warning because you incorrectly mentioned the 209th article. I've said it a hundred times today, that it has nothing to do with your violation of the Rules of Procedure because it is the right to appeal to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I do not know why colleagues and colleagues do not try to read Article 209 in order to avoid calling more on this article And if I were to use it creatively, then there would be a lot of people here, then they would say that there are warnings and things like that, disproportionately, disproportionately, etc. [[But this is 209.]] And the fact that you are constantly and persistently referring incorrectly to a particular article of the Rules of Procedure does nothing to anyone. Please, nice! Mrs Mirjana Feric Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4455	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. As there are no Prime Ministers, I address ministers who are obviously entertained by other stories. This seems a little bit like old-fashioned debates until now, but the Carthage has to fall. After all, ZERP had to come in line. The relationship to the ZERP has been so much affected by the Camelot changes and scales, in fact it should be seen directly as contained in the minutes of the trilateral meeting held on 4 June, where they said they welcomed the suspension of the application of all aspects of the protected ecological and fisheries belt to the Member States of the European Union. They expressed their opinion that this should apply until a joint agreement is reached in the spirit, taking into account the interests of neighbouring countries. That consensual record has been signed, gentlemen of your government. The secrets of the citizen and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia were not very regrettable, nor this House at the time. It was silence. In their second set of ministries, the prime minister and government have persistently praised the fictitious formation of the contract. There are no monitoring teams for negotiations with neighbouring countries and the European Commission. He also risked the Republic of Croatia to stop the blockade through the government and his irresponsible behaviour to stop the blockade or... negotiations with the European Union. [[You don't understand.]] This is how your government has ruled in the past term, and this irresponsible relationship towards the vital interests of the Republic of Croatia continues. The 2004 Prime Minister's statement here, they're gravitating so much that we really need to ask ourselves what the Prime Minister's Government is now believing and whether we should believe what this government is proposing to us today. ZERP would thus be and act as a force then or would cease to be valid if Croatia entered the European Union. Membership in the European Union is not only gentlemen to sit in Strasbourg, Brussels, shake hands. It is to live the European Union here, within the borders of the Republic of Croatia, and that is the quality that the SDP has always advocated, and that is the practice today. You see, unlike you, the SDP has never spelled good relations with citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia with neighbours and political leaders of the member states of the European Union. Our relations at international level are based on an open, direct and untapped treatment of all the issues we are discussing and on those where we will agree, as well as on those we need to discuss further that the European Union is the national interest of the Republic of Croatia. Such a consistent policy at the time of the SDP coalition government has also opened the door to the European Union, Croatia in the European Union and the European Union in Croatia. Let's not forget it's one process that has both departure and arrival. So it was the government of the Ivica Racan, the SDP, of the current coalition partners. Therefore, there are no political horns that you release here and there, my dear gentlemen, on time, from time to time, and that come out of your party's ranks, so here we are, this European Union will not. Please, the European Union has spread to so many members that the European Union will not be untrustworthy partners, as the ZERP shows, unfortunately, that this is the untrustworthy partner of this government. Therefore, we in the SDP consider it necessary to work intensively and qualitatively on negotiations with the European Union. It was also good to say that in a statement, my dear gentlemen, a quote from the working document of the Committee on Croatia, the 2007 Progress Report, a conclusion on fishing policy, etc., Croatia has made some progress in the area of fisheries. General preparations have been initiated, but are still in the early stages. I remain in the areas of fleet management, control and control of structural State aid activities. Croatia will have to step up efforts to overcome the mentioned gaps. Gentlemen, it's 2007 there in the fall, so I know that you've dealt with other types of fishing in election units, instead of negotiating with neighbouring countries involved in the ZERP, you've also been engaged in certain actions in other election units, not the countries involved in the ZERP. Then all the events related to ZERP would not seriously endanger our credibility as candidate countries for membership would be a huge disgrace, let's just say. However, they would be a disgrace to the HDZ party and to the government of prime ministers and coalition partners. I sincerely regret that for a long time I have been in these relations with internationals, any spontaneity of entering the European Union. I regret his chance for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I regret that this is the way in which the government has treated the area of national interest that this government is calling for. I will personally personally engage in reducing the consequences of where SDP means credibility, and for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia whom you have not spoken accuracy. Today this transmission tracks me to HRT plus etc. Citizens and citizens in the world who follow a lot, who live in the countries of the European Union, who live in countries of stable democracy and who ultimately expect and from their countries from which stability and credibility originate. In that sense... it had to fall, but ZERP must not be the way in which the Republic of Croatia loses credibility to the international community for the benefit of only some. [[You don't understand.]] Here's the question of how we're going to get out on that road that's going to get us into negotiations, into expertise, and how we're all going to take it together. Because national interest is not the interest of a party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4456	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4457	Dear President, today we have held a serious and responsible debate here on this important issue of national interest, as well as theatre discussions for the public. The fact is that politics is at a crossroads today. At the intersection of the future whether to continue to speed up negotiations and enter the European Union or by blocking negotiations and future uncertainty, i.e. classifications in society of troubled countries far from the European Union. The fact is that today we would not be discussing the ZERP if the hot potato had not been transferred to the HDZ government since 2003 when the coalition had not had the courage to apply its decision since 3 October 2003, and we know that it was then, and this has been mentioned here several times today, that then the Parliament has declared Croatia's economic belt. The fact is that even though the Italians are the eighth country of the world in economic terms, they hide behind membership in the European Union and thus avoid paying Croatia and that symbolic fee for fishing on our side of the demarcation they paid from 68th year under the Exterior Agreement to the former Yugoslavia. I think it was about 3.5 billion lire somewhere, even though we've heard about over 300 million euros here a year. I believe that we are all aware here and the facts that are realistic that those countries in which Croatia belong, which are not members of the European Union, do not have the same rights and privileges as the Member States of the European Union, and they are hiding as much as we can see from Italy and Slovenia. That's why wisdom is expected, wisdom from our politics. When I say that, I mean not only the ruling party's policy, I mean the entire political corps of Croatia, but after these big debates, I have less and less faith in this political corps of Croatia. Wise policy surely must adapt to time and space and sometimes must take a step back to make two forwards, but we must also openly say that all these malicious stories that we gave up on ZERP know that these are not true stories and that we did not give up that part of the territory that is otherwise beyond our borders, but belongs to us according to the Convention of the United Nations of '82. the year of the true sea. And in order to achieve our national interest and priority for entry into the European Union as soon as possible, because if we do not join the European Union in our locomotive, then we will have to get in the wagon of the Balkan composition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4458	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go. Replica? ... Replica, Mr. Nenad Stazic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4459	You're saying it wouldn't be a problem if that hot potato hadn't left the SDP to Sanader's government in 2003? The potato was cooled down, but in 2000, in 2003, it was exactly HDZ that it asked to declare the economic belt off. No ZERP. That was a little bit for HDZ, a little, not enough, an exclusive economic belt. You put fire under that potato. Today I'm sorry that we didn't actually listen to you then and declared the exclusive economic belt so we left it to you to deal with it, so that you'd be ashamed even more than you're ashamed of with this ZERP, because you didn't deserve anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4460	Please. Mr. Stazic, you're talking about embarrassing someone here and you're on the tradition of continuing your vice president of the club with insults that you share with individuals and collectiveities in this House. If you think you're going to provoke something here, you're wrong. We'll support those qualifications of yours. Here you go, Mr. Kunst. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4461	The Honorable President, so Trazic's representative could not have expected something constructive. It can be more as dramatic as he can perform, because somebody's probably watching him tonight on television, so that's why he's doing it. I think they had the courage as I said, then they would bring and adopt and apply what the Parliament then brought on October 3, 2003, when they declared Croatia's economic belt, but they had no guts, they didn't have the strength to do it, and they transferred that hot chestnut to HDZ, which is why it has to deal with it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4462	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate on this agenda point. Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4463	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. So this is the fourth time we've held a historic debate about ZERP in this assembly. The first time was in 2003 when the debate was being held whether we would have a ZERP or how Mr Stazic now reminded us to turn off the economic belt. Then, on the right side of the assembly, they heard the defamation and ridicule of the ZERP, they heard comparisons with many animals, they mentioned the strange beak, the rice, the kanji, although while in the animal kingdom some other animals would have described what we were all like in the end as to ZERP. Then in 2004, we delayed the application for the countries of the European Union and informed the Commission. It's that famously consensual record that everybody calls upon, all those who tell us that we don't respect our commitments. It's that record that was already at that time in 2004 and it's really properly drawn up, but. So this is the record that had already buried people with expressions, submerged ZERP in the marine dictionary, or put us ahead of the dilemma either ZERP or the EU. To be precise, he didn't put us in front of a dilemma, because that's when he solved the HDZ for all of us, even for HSS. Now it turns out all that was after that was a play because everyone who understood diplomacy was clear that from ZERP in its most important sense, which is the application of Italy and Italian fishermen there was nothing, and it was clear to the former deputy foreign minister, so he was in diplomacy, he knows what it means, and today to the Croatian prime minister. It was clear to him at the time. Then we hoped that the third happiness would be fulfilled when there was a third debate on ZERP, its application for EU countries since 31.7.2007, as proposed by the then opposition and today's opposition of the SDP and then the opposition, today's government, which is now in that government, seems to me to be an opposition to HSS, i.e. from 1.1.2008, as proposed by the HDZ, which was finally adopted. The villains would say that HDZ wanted the ZERP to be discussed after the elections, that is, today and that the whole play was for pre-election purposes, however, the villains would not say that, all those who had understood each other in the political struggle, the political match would say. It should therefore be recalled that some of the Prime Minister's statements expressed doubts about the application of the ZERP and the members of the European Union. So, without the Open, she's one of the better shows in the last term when there was a lot of stuttering and we remember that show, there's a lot of youTube who doesn't know can look again. So, regardless of which government it is, and will be the same since the 1.1.2008 ZERP is in effect, ZERP is in effect for EU countries otherwise already in effect and what the prime minister has now said you can freely upload what you have achieved. But there's one better. 5.10.2007 answers the prime minister's question as follows. ZERP goes on January 1st, finished the quote, and you clapped on him. And that's not where he lied. ZERP is really going, but for the sake of respect of this institution and home education, I can't tell you guys where he's going. And that's because of those of you who clapped at him, that's where he's going. And it is easier for those who did not trust the prime minister, who had little hope in their souls, to us who did not believe him, but we had little hope for Croatia's improvement that perhaps we were wrong in assessing the prime minister and that we would be pleasantly surprised, especially for those of us who are now in opposition. What about those who believed him, to whom one of the main plugins is the essence.../The speaker turned off, then subsequently turned on./... Where do I have to go again? What about those who believed him, who signed the coalition with him,... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. So I know it'd be hard for you if you weren't. Today must be the hardest for them, and I feel for them. And they shared their regrets with us. But they divided it in such a way that it's impossible to imagine that they're still leading the country along with those who.../the speaker turned off, and then turned on./... national interests. They said pride doesn't have a price, but it still looks like it does. The price is two ministerial, several secretaries, several assistants, several directors, and instead of ZERP we got JANAF. For the end. Since the postponement of application to EU countries, and this is also the greatest purpose of the ZERP,... The prime minister knew the benefits of this application. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He knew that ZERP was actually gone, and he would never be in the most basic sense again, otherwise I accept that he had it in the smaller part, he knew that he couldn't apply it, and none of us would object to it if he hadn't insisted on heroizing for domestic pre-election needs by playing with the fate of the negotiations and risking their blockade. This is how we witnessed shows of persuasion, guarantees without cover, and as more and more mentions of the ecological component may be the solution next. Announcing the protection of an active Adriatic ecological base, which would best describe the government's policy on ZERP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4464	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4465	ZERP or the European Union? That's how the problem is presented here today. That's what Prime Minister Sanader has been explaining to the nation for several days. The dilemma is a fake first. All members of the European Union, except Greece, have declared ZERP and are members of the European Union. So why not Croatia together with ZERP members of the European Union? The dilemma is therefore not the ZERP or the European Union. The dilemma is just one, capable or incompetent government? Can there be a ZERP or a European Union? Well, of course you can. Well, that's what Prime Minister Sanader announced. Well, that's what he promised, so we'll have both. The only thing he didn't know how to execute. It's not him, it's not his government. You didn't know, gentlemen. You claimed that it was possible and certain that it was possible, because if possible for other countries, so I guess it is possible for Croatia. But he needs to be able to protect national interests and make that promise logically, realistically and realistic. Why is that impossible for you? Why might it be possible for another government and not yours? Because you hesitated. You've already given up once. So you know what they think of you. Well, once they've given up so beautifully, they'll give up one more time. They'll give up everything because they're the kind of government that give up. They promise something, and when we put a little finger on them, we yell a little at them, and then they pull back and give up everything. If you hadn't given up, there's a prime minister for it, for that kind of behavior, we want strong, we want ZERP, then we don't want ZERP at all, then we want ZERP again, and then we won't, so we won't, so we will, and we won't, and we won't. He's got the Prime Minister famous for his fairy tale, and that's neither pee nor poop. I don't know what the government has been doing out of this two and what it's actually been doing for four years. So this isn't about any ZERP suspension. This is actually about, we're talking today about a suspension of trust in this government. What kind of trust, what credibility can this government have that it's been playing with the electorate for four years, like a cat with a mouse? So take him, and let him go, and take him, and let him go, and promise him, and he will deny, and he will promise again, and he will deny, and he will claim that he can, and he will not. You're saying we're being asked to give up ZERP today. And what will you do if they look for something else tomorrow? What if they ask us to weaponize our fields like the sea weapons now? Will you give up then? Would you like to say, and look, we have a bit of an obstacle, so you have to understand us, so give us some support for that. You don't give any answers to that question. You just claim it has to be, it has to be. Why does it have to be? Why didn't you do it? You don't answer that. This is not about Croatia being asked to give up ZERP. They ask Croatia to respect what it has signed, and you have signed an interstate document. And now they normally demand that you respect this document, because it is European behavior. And did you act European when you signed that document and you denied it both in front of this Parliament and in front of the citizens and when you claimed in the election campaign there was no giving up on ZERP, and you signed the document by which you gave up? So is that European behavior? Well, Europe is not just your European Union. Well, Europe is also civilised behavior in politics and respect for citizens, respect for voters. Well, that's the same for you, Europe. So how do you plan to bring this Croatia into Europe with such methods, with this attitude towards voters. They will never accept you or Croatia with you in Europe if you continue to behave like this. ... Not if you keep acting like one. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What are you trying to do today? Today you're trying to share responsibility with the opposition. He calls in the witty Markovanovic we'll get better and laugh about it. Make fun of the voter's trust as much as you want, that's your level, so that's what I'm interpreting. That's exactly what I'm explaining to you, that this mockery of yours is your attitude towards the voters. I'd like the camera to record this face of yours to see you laugh at the citizens you've been cheating on with ZERP for four years, because that's your relationship. It's your relationship. What are you trying to do today? Share responsibility with the opposition. You call today on the opposition to vote with you but you forget that the opposition can't behave like you or like the Czecho who one day bitterly defends one thing then the other day bitterly attacks that same thing, then the third day will again bitterly defend that same thing. You know, there's got to be some principles and some consistency in politics. And we can't play because we're not kids to play with. We must be responsible here in Parliament and in public appearances we must be responsible. We must speak responsibly even if we are prime minister, even if we fight for voters' votes in the pre-election game. Therefore, this debate today is not a debate on Europe and it is not a debate on ZERP, it is a debate on you. And if you understand it that way, then maybe you have a chance to do something for this country to get closer to European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4466	Thank you. Mr. Borislav Matkovic correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4467	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The inaccuracy of fellow Stazic is that the government is incompetent. The truth is that the government is capable of what it was and has passed, and it has been shown and confirmed by citizens in the elections. It is also true that many admit it except for you on duty skeptics.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4468	Thank you. The replica of Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4469	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Stazic is with whom in most of his exposure I agree and some of his allegations might have even more strongly said he noticed a good change in behavior, and I will not, he mentioned then some statements from the campaign. And imagine, Mr. Stazic, what if it were the reverse situation, would it then be the Split Riva again... whether to read chestnuts again and to be held so much to the national interests and then to be bullied in Zagreb, Split, Knin and easily less than the macaque grains in Brussels. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Because like when the Slovenians declared their epicontinental belt, then the prime minister in the Parliament said, "Croatia is not looking for anything else but will not give it.". As co-worker Kotromanović quoted today persons from our close history I think that something that will mark this debate will be the one that "We will not, we will not.".
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4470	Thank you. No one answered the line. It's Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4471	Well, maybe I'll start my own discussion a little differently. I'll start by adding one word. Since I also hold to the sub-represented sex as they have called themselves, a husband who deserves to be a representative of the people must know the wishes and aspirations of his constituents and of them all the people. He's already one of the fathers of the homeland in our near past. For those of you who don't know, it was Ante Starcevic. ... So, Mr. Jumbo's wife, I'm the one who added it because I hold onto them. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Before this debate, I would only conclude that this is the first time that a debate is being held here in the assembly on a topic which the government, so the Croatian government to which most citizens are, is here that I agree with you, has no opinion on the mandate. Therefore, the Croatian government has no opinion on ZERP, or may have it but must not publicly say it or disagree with its various views. And right here, a false dilemma is being repeated whether ZERP or whether the European Union is. ZERP has nothing to do with the European Union. ZERP is primarily Croatian, national, strategic but above all political interest. And it applies exclusively to relations between Croatia, Italy and Slovenia. It does not apply to any European Union countries because neither Hungarians nor Romanians will come here with their carts, but it will be Italians and Slovenians. On the other hand, at least today it's been a case under maybe, and some more democratic circumstances, I'm surprised there aren't any representatives of fishermen up here. Are they prohibited from coming here to the Croatian Parliament, whether they are not interested in this question at all or whether it is something else. I don't doubt that this thing was solved in 2002, 2001 or 2003, that here in Mark's square, given that at that time it was possible to gather citizens so that what happened in Split on that Split coast would not happen and that today there would be no other Condic with a network of brakes or I don't know what. The European Union is a priority, but a priority for which Croatia must not, but must not take off its shoes, let alone underpants. But we must enter this European Union like all the other peoples who made it, upright and protecting their national interests. Because that's what the Croatian people expect of us. I will remind you that one of the conditions for the negotiations was also the delivery of Croatian generals to The Hague. Not only these three but also this near future, there were also buses from Herzegovina that were going, etc. If you have followed that trial there is not tried by those three generals, but is tried by Croatia and the Homeland War, and this was also one of the conditions for accession to the negotiations. That's how it is with ZERP. I do not see any reason why this Croatian Parliament today votes to the application of ZERP, i.e. not to vote at all on this proposal by the HDZ Club because it opposes the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal means the total abolition of ZERP, loss, major economic loss for the Republic of Croatia and a huge economic loss for Croatian citizens. About these ships that are supposed to be being made. They are as much as I have seen in the programme as I should have seen in 2008 so that Croatian fishermen and hopefully not in principle and political similarities should be prepared for entry into the European Union. I'm going to end up with another sentence from that same father of the homeland that some called him even though there was more in the history of these fathers. Some even have these eyes, now they're sitting here in these lines shouting that Saddam is, etc. Well, okay, but now they're profiled. The real state not only is good for man, but it is the condition of every good. So I would ask you on behalf of this, which is said there somewhere in 1856 to withdraw your proposal on behalf of this because it absolutely does not protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4472	Thank you. If I can contribute to a single quote to a brief discussion of at least one issue, and it is troubled by a number of debates. I will quote what is here in front of all of us and the Croatian public this morning on the proposal for a decision by the prime minister. If I could just cut a little short, it would be nice to listen. And that is why we will join and support the HDZ's proposal to amend and supplement the ZERP Decision that you have just accepted on the bench. If there is willingness for other clubs and other parties to join, a compromise solution may find a joint proposal to amend the Croatian Democratic Community's door. The government will support it and we can move on. So there's no dilemma about government support. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4473	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs. Let me look back on what we're discussing today with a few clues, or what I don't think we should do and why that is. Croatia is a coastal country. It also has its seas under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of '82. The year also has certain rights, rights regarding the extension of jurisdiction to the Adriatic to the middle line. The protected eco-fishing belt is a derivative exclusively of the economic belt and as such it has started to be used, i.e. as such it has been promoted. However, the coastal state has sovereignty only above the territorial sea. It's 12 nautical miles while this extended jurisdiction and only sovereign law but not sovereignty. The rights that include the exploitation of the protection of resources of living and mineral and environment, the rights of supervision and control, the rights set up by artificial marriages. It means to maintain certain species and fish in this area and the right to scientific research. The Croatian Parliament has declared these contents as an exclusive economic belt and as such they have been established as a protected eco-fishing belt. It's only now that the question is what have we got with that protected economic belt, the fishing belt, and what are we going to lose if we don't have as such. What is present here is certainly a question of the use of fishing boats and fishing. Here we are in one situation that up to 800 Italian fishing vessels with everything they can catch we said today we can use 200 to 300 million euros of benefits there. On the contrary, what we have is very little, a hundred ships of our fishing fleet that are both small and old and do not allow such work and sailing on the open sea. That is why on the Croatian side there should be one more concrete task of establishing a high-quality fishing fleet. Unfortunately, this has not happened in these four years, it has not increased that number and such a fleet has not been created that could be profitable, highly profitable compared to the Italian fleet. But according to the data, and with our weak and bad fleet in 2007, we exported the fish for $131 million, and we imported $98. So it's a $33 million positive, which is very good for that rebalancing we have in agriculture. Also, a $21.5 million processing is exported fish, but it's equally unfortunately imported. In one word, our future is the Adriatic, and we can't be a people, like this Parliament just to deny something or give up. Giving up on ZERP is a particular thing. These are the indicators, these are the money we're losing, and what are faster negotiations. Well, that's one imagination, so that's the one we unfortunately had opportunities here, and there were speeches about when we offered our generals, or that we'd have a faster entry into Europe and that didn't happen. There's a question of what we should do next. Well, we certainly need to negotiate not only unilaterally we're giving up on ZERP. Why don't we figure out how much we can get? Why don't we let the neighbors take advantage of the extras but pay us that? It means that, in the area of ZERP, the rolling stock to be seen there, that the catch should be taken in part to the neighbours but with the possibility of compensation. The second thing we've been talking about is a question of equal terms for our fishermen and Italians. They work in European norms, we work in Croatian. By European standards, they have the possibility of a more powerful machine, meaning stronger ships than our own. In this situation, our fishermen are also getting worse. The issue of equating this fisheries policy with that in the EU. He says when we get in, we'll all have the same. However, from 1990 to 2000, the Italians, along with subsidies that were then made possible by the European Union, renewed and modernised their fleet. Today, this is no longer possible under new EU regulations for the modernisation of the fleet under these conditions. Therefore, under much more difficult conditions, we will restore that fleet of ours. And in the end, I think we should look for certainly government some possibility of compensation for these hatches, compensating these shortcomings, and thus building our fleet faster and getting into the same positions. As a result, the question of concessions, fees, fishing, etc. We should discuss this and not just what the Government is offering us today, which is that ZERP is abolished and economic compensation is nothing and one fiction will be accepted more quickly into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4474	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4475	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. Since 1 January of this year, Croatian citizens have believed that Croatia will control and protect the protected ecological fishing belt. So 12 miles from the line of stretching the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely convinced that those standards, which are valid in the European Union, which means vital and standard conditions, primarily that make up the backbone of the European Union's policy, will be protected, they probably looked forward to doing so. However, the real truth is that, in practice, neither was the decision to protect the ZERP applicable nor was it applied. It was just before Mr. Matušić said that 21 fishermen or an Italian ship stopped in ZERP had offered me to say that it was not, in fact, the only thing that really happened is that the officers on our ships spent taxpayers' money and megaphones warning those same fishermen who entered the protected ecological fishing belt. No other legal instrument was provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the protection of the ZERP. Neither Croatian police, port captains, or coast guard, nor from... services can only and exclusively apply to law-based powers. Regardless of the wishes of individual politicians of any government or anyone else, because I deeply believe that the Republic of Croatia is a legal state. And what does the law say? Infringement law in Article 12 states that the law of the Republic of Croatia applies to anyone who commits an offence in its territory. The Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia also states in Article 13 that it is a criminal offence and that the criminal law of the Republic of Croatia applies to anyone who commits a criminal offence in its territory. And it does not need to be a legal expert to know that the concept of the territory of the Republic of Croatia refers to the territory of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. to its continental part and the territorial sea. I point out this especially because the Department of Criminal Law of the Ministry of Justice reported with joy on 21 January 2008, here is the only Minister present from the Government, Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connection to consider the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which implies the external border of the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear therefore that ZERP is not an area of the Republic of Croatia in territorial terms, ZERP is not the territory of the Republic of Croatia in terms of law or to be more precise, we have the right to the ZERP, we have the right to declare the economic belt, but we do not have the instruments to protect that belt. That document was even published in the daily newspaper with a comment that state institutions are powerless in any way to prevent fishing for fish and other economic activities by Italian, Slovenian and similar fishermen. To this, the Minister of Justice has knowingly deceived the public by saying that ZERP must protect itself by applying the Maritime Code, although it is clear to the layman that violations prescribed by the Maritime Code must be governed by the provisions of the Criminal Code. For any possible attempt to initiate a misdemeanor procedure, the Criminal Court can only be declared indemnity, and the best evidence is the exact opposite of what is stated, which is that the Croatian police, port captains, coast guard, inspection services since the application of the ZERP have neither tried nor initiated any criminal or any other procedure. Those services are not competent outside the borders of the territorial sea, they cannot apply powers, they cannot even establish an identity,... a vessel, but let alone use force. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, Slovenian and Italian fishermen also know that they sail daily and hunt in ZERP. More than ever, warnings that are listed here as numbers are allowed, and megaphones used by members of the Croatian police and coast guard are the only instruments left at their disposal. 86 ships, 6 aircraft, etc. mentioned today by the minister to oversee ZERP. I claim it's true. They can only really monitor ZERP, but it is a pity that the budget money of taxpayers is being spent when there is nothing they can do but warn us that in that part we are present as police or that our institutions may one day be able to do something. What I'm trying to say for that is, I don't think there's any need for any acting. We did not act, nor did we act, nor did we protect ZERP. What is most important, I join all those MPs who used to say, that I would not repeat myself in this late hour that it is clear that ZERP was in fact just an excuse for everything that Croatia did not in accession to the European Union, which should have been done. And finally, today, the prime minister has informed us of the great success in the matter of Prevlaka, that it will be resolved by international arbitration and of this debate today over ZERP we have not even noticed that a new signature with... Couldn't we have been in a much better position to talk to our neighbours as members of the European Union, so for once we can learn something from the lesson that national interests are defended by our neighbours, specifically Slovenians. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4476	Thank you very much. It is up to Madam Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4477	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here we have heard a lot in this quite long debate, we are discussing two related things, so we are talking about negotiations with the European Union and the protected eco-fishing belt. Somehow most of it concentrated on this second part, so let's use rational time, I'm going to focus more on the other part that seems to me that somehow most of it says what it is, but sometimes it seems a little short of real information about it. Why did we even get those two questions on the table? Someone said they had nothing to do with each other. In another situation, they might not have had a relationship, perhaps if circumstances were such that it could be declared in other times, everyone would be happy here and not discuss these two issues, but they got intertwined and the fact is that the application of the ZERP to the Member States that we have introduced since 1.1.2008 has slowed the course of negotiations. The English have one saying that says the first things first, the most important things first, so here I will talk about what is more important to me in the context of the long-term Croatian interest, and I will talk about what is already said today, but it seems to me that once again, Euro-Atlantic integration for Croatia is at the heart of its statehood, so all Croatian governments have so far had the same opinion or a very similar opinion, and I think we should continue now that we have this historic opportunity to actually finish this second job in front of us, so to join the European Union, to finish it. NATO is practically at our door, we can count the time to the invitation now in days, but the other one remains, I would dare say, because I've been doing a little bit more work on it. Today, there was also a dilemma that was not really a dilemma for me. The question has been raised on various sides, so if we can bridge this obstacle today, can we actually finish these negotiations in the summer next year in order to make it extremely useful for Croatia for a number of reasons. One of them is that, but perhaps not most important and that the new Parliament is then elected European, which is chosen by the new Commission and then from, if not politically, for technical reasons, the matter is delayed for a long time. Why can't we? Why do I think we can do that? Well, we can because I think we have great people who can do it, who will do it and who will be convinced I'm headed by the government that runs this process for sure, but I think it's more important to say why we need it. And we need an earlier study, here's which I'm also counting on might be useful to mention again, dr. In the debate on behalf of the club, Hebrang spoke about it, so the expected economic effects since Croatia's accession to the European Union. It is in a series of chapters, and one of them is fishing talking about what it brings to Croatia. I'd just like to say, here's a presentation that the experts from the Economic Institute did when they represented the study. I'll just read you some data. Says the financial effects of access. In the first 3 years of membership, Croatia could expect something about 2 billion euros in transfers, and these transfers could, compared to what Croatia has today, so today there are 30 euros per capita around that help, they could go multiple times higher at the time when Croatia enters the European Union. So, they speak in the first year of 115 euros, in the next 153 and that would grow, because in that way, actually, when you agree to join the European Union, it is so called. Facing in therefore gradually increases the amount of money the country can accept. But what would that mean for tourists? We're talking about the Adriatic, we're talking about an area where this ZERP has an impact on tourists, their study has shown for a tourist segment that, as far as I know, does with direct and indirect all the things that work on that industry somewhere around 30% of our gross national income, they say in this study to increase the arrival of tourists in Croatia, etc. I'll just draw one of the conclusions. They say the benefits would be numerous and long-term. And actually, somewhere I'd like to finish this part of the study. So the benefits for Croatia would be numerous and long-term. And if we don't happen to achieve this membership within that deadline next year, then I'm afraid it might happen to us that then one... Let's say for a longer period of years that door will be closed, not because Croatia would not be ready for it, but simply because the entire enlargement environment in the European Union is getting colder and colder. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I don't think it would be good if we came to that stage, now we've gone deep enough that with one extra effort this year and next we can finish this process. What does it mean if Croatia didn't do it anyway? So that's that negative scenario. Well, that would mean other than these effects that I quoted from this study and the fact that Croatia could not participate in the revision of so-called "the next year". financial perspectives. Some European Union experts have again calculated that the loss that Croatia would not enter into the negotiations next year on the rest of the financial perspective, so that in a few years or four years, it could be up to 4 billion euros. I haven't seen it written anywhere, some have calculated it according to some of their theories. But I do believe that somewhere loss would be significant and that this figure isn't just out of the sleeve, but that it has some foothold. But what's more important, which you don't even have in this study yet, which is what I wouldn't dare say in almost any of the studies, because it's hard to judge, because it's still being discussed, and that's the question of how Croatia will be able to position itself for that financial perspective since 2014, in which it will, and here I will mention another important segment that we will certainly discuss in the course of the negotiations here in Parliament, which is agriculture. So unless we enter these plans into the European Union of policies, especially as regards transfers to agriculture that amount almost and half of the total budget of the European Union will change on many, it is not yet known exactly how, but will certainly change it in a way that those who are not inside 2014 and are not in a position to negotiate, that they will start from a rather empty zero, while these other countries that were previously inside and who will start from their founding quotas and rights will have a completely different position. I'm saying, you can't figure out what that could mean yet. But I'm afraid for Croatia and our agriculture it could mean a lot. Here's to the conclusion. I think that these are financial, but not only financially, I think there have been talks about other effects that accession to the European Union has, and some of them are also the end of the transition process faster, to complete the reforms that are needed faster, etc. So all that will contribute to the prosperity and improvement of our citizens is a good enough reason for us today to make one decision that will be responsible and that will look at the really long-term interest of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4478	Thank you. One replica of Mr. Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4479	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric, at least I always enjoy listening and listening to you. And if you see, I'm still wearing that star, so I'm not any Eurosceptic. But unfortunately, when you spoke about the need to open negotiations this summer in 2009 and start having a serious conversation, then you looked here, at this side. But you were looking the wrong way. That's where you were supposed to look, because that's where they're supposed to do it. Perhaps it was a lapus, and as I greatly appreciate you and know that you speak well, I unfortunately to you, not to you but to your Prime Minister, I do not believe that we will enter then and then we will achieve it. Why? Because today, somewhere on 14.3. and on 24.3.2007, in an interview with the European Union's 50th anniversary, Prime Minister Sanader said: "We have a great negotiating team, good extra-party co-operation with the National Committee, the ministries are working well, all resolution ministers and their associates are absolutely engaged and ultimately committed to the task. I'm sure we can finish negotiations by the end of 2008. Yeah, we just put that somewhere in the summer of 2009. Either Prime Minister Sanader in this when we negotiated or with Olli Rehn when he spoke, some of their Hido Biscevic signed that it would be then, so we don't know it yet, as our Hido Biscevic signed that we don't actually have ZERP, and that we lived in the belief that we have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4480	Thank you. Reply by Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4481	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'll limit my replica to looking the other way first because I'm so positioned. And secondly, I know that my colleagues from the government that I've worked very closely with recently on many issues, they know very well what to do, so I have no doubt at all that I should and see that they have a plan to do. And here, I somehow believe that the elections in Croatia have passed. The government is formed. And that we know who our prime minister is. He's just as my prime minister as yours, so here, I wouldn't doubt what our prime minister is doing and how this government works. Thank you very much. [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4482	Thank you. Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4483	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Tonight we actually heard a policy step forward, two steps back, we also heard a Camelot policy, we heard a policy of trial and error. However, this policy brings us back in fact in June 2004, because then the HDZ Government authorised the Secretary of State to sign the minutes, and in that minutes it stands as we know that Croatia has informed the other parties of the decision of the Assembly which does not refer to the member states of the European Union until the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement. Of course, they were able to hunt freely in our area of ZERP without the possibility of supervision by Croatian inspections or without the obligation to comply with Croatian rules on time seasonal restrictions, on the size or quantity of fish that can be fished, on the strength and size of ships that can hunt. And in addition to that, there is actually another paradox which is that our fishermen are completely discriminated against because for them in ZERP all the rules in fisheries apply. When this agreement, which many call an agreement last year, was mentioned in Zagreb by Mr. Rehn, our prime minister said that advisers misinformed him and said that Croatia should not simply declare a protected ecological fishing belt in the Adriatic. However, the European Commission expects Croatia as a credible candidate country to stand by its signed promises and commitments and not take any simple action on the ZERP. It is also interesting to monitor everything Prime Minister Ivo Sanader said about ZERP, from the fact that it is not an obstacle for Croatia on its way to the European Union, that ZERP is a bilateral problem, that there is no discussion about its delay and that Croatia will not give way to the European Union on this issue. In addition, Mr Sanader announced that he had finally found a rescue solution, then that it would never come to this, or so far that Croatia must choose ZERP or the European Union. Thanks to such a two-faced policy, we found where we were first in January of this year when ZERP came into effect, or much further where we were in June 2004. The question is whether it's a breach of a promise or a treading of words that means something everywhere in a civilized world and especially in diplomatic circles. What kind of politics are we running? Well, they are not in Europe, so let me not be offended by those who will be recognized by the likes of HDZ voters who can be promised a lot of things, and none of them will be fulfilled, and they will go beyond that as if nothing had happened. Well, in the European Union, it can't do that anyway. They are very well following what is happening with us, and they have already learned about the many political truths that are passing through, but that is why these untruths cannot pass in the European Union. And that's why we're in this situation where we are. I would briefly mention what they said in 2003 when we actually made the decision to declare ZERP. Mr. Ivo Sanader said that, if our ordinary man would say we got some noise, we'd have a typical product of old-known Croatian bargaining, and Mr. Vladimir Seks said he wouldn't vote for such a strange beak. In October 2006, HDZ would re-change its position on ZERP and then seek the political consensus of all parties for the activation of the ZERP and for members of the European Union. So the prime minister lost credibility in the ZERP issues, however, constantly changing his mind and is not some news. In the end I'd say it's the face and look at our policy today we promise, tomorrow we say it doesn't make sense. I wonder in the end who's in this whole story right now to weird the beak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4484	Thank you. One replica, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4485	My colleague, you have well warned that the prime minister informed 8.2. that he had found a rescue solution and literally told me then about the media service proposal to remove the reasons for their dissatisfaction we have with the full retention and implementation of ZERP. And something earlier than a month ago, he even claimed I am sure that with a little goodwill we can solve the ZERP problem with its retention and full application. That's what it was then, only a month ago. And here today in the Croatian Parliament we want to be told and we would apply this ZERP to allow these hellish opportunities and circumstances. But they're like that, they won't let us. And today, he wants to present himself to us here as much as we're going to get. And how many of us missed them because we were unable to attract them and make use of them. So now instead of that Byzantine policy that we have each other that we have today. We don't even have Europe, we don't have ZERP. Well, it's really political absurd.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4486	Thank you. There's no prime minister to respond to the replica, so here's who. Thank you very much. It's Mr. Zdenko Franic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4487	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. While somewhere between the apple, the Palagrega and the Saint of ZERP behind the horizon are not seen any other regime that will regulate both the ecosystem and environmental protection and fisheries in that part of the Adriatic. So there's this kind of Wild West vacuum where everyone can hunt as much as they want because there's no quota, there's no common European fisheries policy. I would like to remind you of one interesting statistic, that Slovenia, this is data from the European Union's website dedicated to the common fisheries policy. So, Slovenia has 200 ships on only 46km of coast and Italy has 12 thousand ships on a total of 8 thousand kilometres of coast, which is statistical in Slovenia on every 250m of coast by one boat and in the case of Italy on every 550m also one boat.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4488	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4489	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with that, actually, so who's hunting at ZERP, or what's the situation now. Love for Italians and hunting Slovenians and then the delay of ZERP means a delay except for members of the European Union, that means that they will still be able to hunt whether and de facto delay will be until Croatia enters the European Union, and when Croatia enters the European Union because they are members of the European Union, that means that de facto of ZERP will not be anything. However, the question arises when it was known. Okay. Did you know that in 2004? I believe it is. But let's go naively that the government didn't know that in 2004 it delayed it once. Naive, she didn't know another time. And second time, she's delayed. Well, it's the third time, then the fourth time. Which is the result, after four years in the fishing sense. What's the score? Croatia has one ransom fish centre that does not work, it is in Rijeka or it works very badly. Police in Croatian chains, i.e. in the foreign chains of the fish coming is the fish from Italy. Croatian fishermen sell fish to Italian fishermen. Croatian fish import balance, i.e. export is negative. So we import a lot more fish than we export. And you know what interesting information is? That Croatia's largest imports of fish have a republic called Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is due to river fish due to partial mediation. That's the result of the last four years. I also proposed that when I read the budget that subsidies to fishermen to strengthen the fishing fleet, compared to last year, last year they were 23.5 million kuna, for this year they were planned for 2 million kuna, at least at the same level as last year. That didn't go away. So there's no vision of strengthening the fishing fleet. In four years, it has not been strengthened despite the ZERP, despite the ZERP's delay, despite all that was known. Now I'm asking you who's to blame for this condition and who's to blame for four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4490	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Mariana Petyr's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4491	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. Today we have had the opportunity to hear an abundance of debates and the conclusion can be that everyone has their own truth and thus debates. What is important to point out that the Adriatic Sea is known as one of our most valuable ecological resources, but also economic resources, and therefore Croatia has a special responsibility in protecting the Adriatic Sea, given that the economy of other countries in the environment does not depend as much on the ecological quality of the Adriatic as our economy depends. I must point out that in just 50 years from 1945 until 1999 the fish stock of economically significant species in the area called ZERP fell to half, while within the territorial sea it fell to one third. This is due to the unlimited and uncontrollable catches of fish in the area considered to be open sea, i.e. ZERP. I therefore believe that the full implementation of ZERP can be one of the most effective measures to prevent the extreme exhaustion was the supply of the Adriatic Sea. I must express more regret about the blackmailing behaviour of EU officials who, in the service of special, short-sighted and short-sighted interests of Italy and Slovenia, and I view it as an immoral offer. It is contrary to the declared principles of European Union policy, including maximum environmental protection, but particularly the protection of marine eco-systems. The Adriatic Sea has been confronted these days with an ecological crisis that contributes to fish fishing, which contributes to transport and climate change. Of the 438 famous fish species in the Adriatic, as many as 123 are found in the red book of endangered species. The Republic of Croatia cannot and must not give up natural resources, seas, Adriatic coasts, by the fact that on our half of the Adriatic Sea, the party hunts our fish fund by earning millions of euros or by uncontrollable sailing of tankers poses a danger to the beauty and potential of Croatian tourism. ZERP provides us with the supervision and use of 25 thousand square kilometres of Adriatic waters we have the right to do so, and other countries have benefited from the United Nations International Convention of 1982. For this reason, we are constantly asking why Croatia would be the only one in the world to withdraw from the unfair demands of the European Union when its members, for example, are free to have a similar fishing belt and that absolutely no one is bothered by it. The HSS has so far shown its staunch support for Croatia's entry into the European Union but does not want Croatia to lose its sovereign rights on the Adriatic. The HSS does not want Croatia to give fish to our rich neighbours, and to the detriment of Croatian fishermen and peasants. The HSS advocates a Croatian table rich in our sea products for its own healthy food to all our citizens. The HSS initiated and the Croatian Parliament supported it in 2003, to declare ZERP that it was then also found to be moving by a year later. The delay of application occurred twice again and ZERP finally entered into force in 1.1.2008. Almost all coastal and island states of the world, including all members of the European Union other than Greece, have declared their economic and ecological fishing belts, and this is the sovereign right of each country, where it does not have to seek the consent of another country. 113 states have declared economic belts, 14 countries of fishing, and nine more have drawn their territorial seas to a large distance from the coast. Italy is participating with its catch with over 90% of the total value of the fish caught annually in the Adriatic Sea of which two-thirds of them are realized in our ZERP. We have been warned that we declare our ZERP unilaterally and that it is not in the European spirit. We wonder who Italy consulted when it recently declared its environmental belt, and so did Slovenia. Italy and Slovenia have declared their environmental belt which strengthens pressure on the Croatian part of the Adriatic. The fish fund is at risk and several years of delay in the use of ZERP could lead to a collapse after which it will not recover for decades. The intensive exploitation of the Adriatic has led to a significant decline in biomass, which is primarily a species that is extremely sensitive to exploitation and their populations have been halved. On the other hand, commercially irrelevant species are good at exploiting and their population is stable. The largest drop in biomass and the most negative changes were recorded in the ZERP, and the reason for this was that overfishing of the Italian fleet, as well as the absence of measures to regulate fishing and protection, since until the application of the ZERP itself entered into force, it was not possible to regulate fishing in that band. The Italian catch in the Adriatic is more than 150 thousand tonnes, and the Croatian only 35 thousand tonnes per year. Italy applies its ecological zone to Croatian ships, while at the same time the Republic of Croatia does not make it the same dynamic when it comes to Italian ships. The situation with Slovenia is even more delicate, given that Slovenia has extended its powers to the western coast of Istria, i.e. in the space defined by the Republic of Croatia as its own ZERP. In theory, Slovenia can apply its power over Croatian ships in Croatia's ZERP, which I think would be extremely bad. This could also reflect the possible establishment of a maritime border between the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia before a judicial international body. The ecological part of the economic belt, i.e. the ZERP, is not a matter of European gain and is not part of the negotiations with the European Union, so it can be declared and activated unilaterally as already mentioned in Italy, Slovenia and Finland. The implementation of ZERP also means the implementation of European rules in fisheries because we oppose wild fisheries and non-European behaviour of foreign fishermen in ZERP. The Italian interest is a free catch of fish, and the Slovenian reach for territory, braking, or plowing of the seabed is destroyed by habitats of all organisms, and after intensive braking it takes 20 years for these habitats to be restored. Operational pollution in the Adriatic occurs every other day on average, and can be reduced by setting up a system for detecting, polluting and controlling shipping. The European Commission Scientific Institute has produced a statistical review of possible pollution obtained by an analysis of satellite recordings since '99. by 2004 in order to quantify oil pollution in the Mediterranean and it has been shown that since ZERP has been declared in Croatia and since the application of these pollutants have been reduced by 70%, and the experiences of the French ecological belt are also relevant. The claim that ZERP is a brake in the negotiations for membership in the European Union is only a replacement because negotiations do not make it difficult to apply international law, but rather illegal interests which seek to disable this application. The question, the European Union or ZERP is false, because the withdrawal of money is Croatia, i.e. At least 300 million euros per year, and it seems irreparable to our ecological system. It is certain that Croatia's future is in the European Union, but it will not ensure it by giving up its rights at sea. The Croatian people are committed to Europe, but also to the application of Croatian rights on the Adriatic. There is no big doubt that a large majority of Croatian citizens would give their support to the continuation of negotiations with the European Union, but also to the full implementation of the ZERP in line with today's decision of the Croatian Parliament. Such a commitment by the Croatian people includes a mandate for responsible and thoughtful, as much as strategic leadership and pro-European and Adriatic policies, always on the basis of international law and the principle of equality, as the European Union itself declares, whose full member Croatia should one day become. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4492	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First of all, the Honorable Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4493	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting the quote, Miss who said that everyone here today has their own truth about this subject. I believe that there is only one relevant truth about this debate and this topic, and it says that the ruling coalition does not have a unique position so that we can decide in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4494	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4495	You have incorrectly claimed from your colleagues that the European Union is blackmailing us. This is absolutely incorrect, because you should know that the Croatian government you have joined has made a commitment to that same Europe that you are now accusing us of being blackmailed, that ZERP will not be applied to EU member states. Therefore, the regrets you have misdirected here can then be preserved for this coalition that will now end the ZERP that you are now regretting.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4496	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4497	The Honored colleague Petir has shown, described the effects of overfishing on the fish fund, which is also aware of the European Union and not only for the Adriatic, but also for all seas under the jurisdiction of the European Union. However, they say it would be good to reduce the fishing capacity for the reconstruction of the fisheries fund, but in their own documents they say it is very difficult to implement because this would lead to severe consequences for the fishing industry of developed countries, and such a developed country is Italy and it is interesting that Italy has absolutely not reduced its fishing capacity in the last 7,8 years because these recommendations of the European Commission are not at all related to the open sea of the Adriatic Sea, which we call ZERP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4498	Next up for debate, distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4499	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I can talk very rationally about this subject because we in the Podravna of our sea dried up early enough. We have a fertile plain, so now we can talk very rationally about this topic. This discussion today could come down to one thesis, and it could be about from a false dilemma to a new illusion. The false dilemma is therefore entirely the one that imposes on us, which is the European Union or ZERP. There's already a lot of talk about why it's a false dilemma? The simple question is one key. Is ZERP the magic wand that will solve all the difficulties and problems that are in the way of negotiations for the European Union, as explained here today by the prime minister as a representative of the HDZ Club, because he did not speak on behalf of the Government, when and if I cancel on ZERP everything will be resolved. We will not only complete the negotiations by 2009 but this speed that will take place tomorrow in Brussels when the whole Brussels administration is on the run. I am convinced that perhaps by the end of the year we are done with the negotiations and that we will resolve all our concerns with Brussels. It is possible that even those in Brussels from the administration went to sleep a little early today that tomorrow as soon as the prime minister lands with a letter that ZERP has been suspended, it will all start immediately. The SDP club was looking for something else entirely. The SDP club has requested that today, the government submit a report on the state of negotiations with, the state of pre-accession negotiations and the ZERP. And then we got it all upside down again, so we got a change of decision on ZERP. And all the time, it's only really debated about ZERP. And everything will be settled with ZERP. We'll do it all right. But you see, if there were hearing, that the prime minister had the need to address the representatives and the Croatian public in the spirit of what the SDP club was looking for, which is to finally tell us that we are standing honestly with these negotiations, what we need to do and what the chances of really ending it in some real time, then we would have a debate probably completely different today. Because apart from Ollie Rehn being in Zagreb a few days ago and talking to the prime minister and besides telling us what he was talking to him, we don't even have protected witnesses from those talks. So we don't know what's been discussed there. We are left to trust the prime minister who says a month ago that there is no dilemma but we have the ZERP and the EU, and now we have or/or. So, besides that conversation before Olli Rehn came to Zagreb, he sent a letter to the foreign minister. And it was fair that today, here in Parliament, MPs get that letter from the foreign minister, because that's exactly what we're looking for. We asked the government to report on the state of the negotiations. And that letter on several pages says what very serious problems are at this stage of negotiations with the European Union. On several pages, there are very serious warnings about what we should have done and not done. And look at the wonders! Nowhere, no mention of ZERP. But it's said, if by June you won't do what you were supposed to do in.../The speaker turned off, then turned on./... So, in public procurement, in shipbuilding, in the judiciary and in some other segments, you won't close those chapters within the time you think you're going to close. Ollie Rehn is expressing concern with our absorption capacity for pre-accession funds. He is expressing extreme concern about whether we will succeed in obtaining accreditation for the agency so that we can withdraw funds from the IPA. Not a word about it here today. But we are, first, creating this false dilemma, and now the illusion again. ZERP will fix everything. We'll just wave to ZERP, and the European Union will spread its hands and say, "Come on, it's all settled and you're forgiven." Ollie Rehn warns us of the following. That it's not enough that the Prime Minister is more than us, the list of chapters.../The speaker shut down, and then later turned on.... so someone's really playing. Every time you chair...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4500	Please, let's get this debate over with. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4501	I don't know, but every time you chair the vice president, the problem is with my microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4502	You're winking at me. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4503	So he's seriously warning us about these facts. And it all happened before Ollie Rehn came to Zagreb. And then look at the wonders. When he came to Zagreb, he never spoke to anyone from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the Prime Minister, nor with anyone about these problems that are very clearly written in that letter, but suddenly told him, he came to the attention of ZERP and said let's solve this ZERP now. And when you do, we'll forgive you for everything else. You probably shouldn't solve shipbuilding or the judiciary or public administration or corruption or anything else. And we got caught up on that story you know about a conversation that nobody really knows about. It seems to me like we've thrown geese into the fog and got caught up in the ZERP network. I just don't know if we've thrown into ZERP or now we're falling out of ZERP. I don't know what direction the geese are in that kicking towards or out. And we must indeed, here today will probably be decided as it will be. But that will not solve the problems in any way. And I think it remains the obligation of the Prime Minister and the Government to report to the Croatian Parliament and citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the state of negotiations. They need to know what else is waiting for them in the European Union. They can't be faced again with a dilemma of cheese and cream. We started talking about the European Union in Croatia from the level of cheese and cream, so now ZERP.../The speaker has come off and then turned on./... And somebody's really playing. I'm looking for two extensions for seven minutes. And this honesty in dealing with or treating MPs, with citizens, is extremely important that citizens will want to participate in the process of joining the European Union because their participation depends on how much we can and will be able to implement these reforms. Such dishonesty and such ignoring by the Prime Ministers as today has the opportunity to see will not result in the desired dynamics of accession, regardless of what you will tomorrow or what the Prime Minister will tomorrow bring a rescue letter to Brussels that the ZERP is no longer available for the European Union. But perhaps it would be good to say that the EU is not a bogeyman. You know, unfortunately, we keep telling our citizens that the EU imposes criteria, standards, rules, reforms, obligations, denials, denials, different manners. It should be said that the EU is simply a set of values, that there are European values that we want to or do not want to live and which we want to or do not want to contribute to. Here, I was, for example, a month ago in Brussels and the town of Koprivnica was awarded a European award and was named as the best practice in sustainable transport in the European Union in the competition of 2,000 and 16 cities, which means that we from Croatia have something to offer to the European Union and that we can get merited recognitions there. We are already in Brussels in the European Union from Koprivnica, and we will wait for the rest of you to come in a few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4504	Thank you. Dear home President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4505	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am convinced that all participants in today's debate want all the best in Croatia. It is my belief, everyone from their point of view wants good Croatian and Croatian state interests. We are politicians because we have been elected to the Croatian Parliament of Croatian peoples and citizens of Croatia and we are people who because we have been elected to the Croatian Parliament have taken over the permanent responsibilities in front of the Croatian people. However, I would say that being a politician and also a highly ranked politician does not always mean being a statesman. Unlike politicians and high-ranking politicians, statesmen take responsibility for their people and their country and when it is not quite popular and when it does not have enough resonance and support in public. Then the statesmen take responsibility. If we say it isn't, that there's no ZERP, then I don't know why we've been talking all day about how to delay the use of ZERP. What are we gonna delay if he's not here? It will never be annulled or legally ignored that the ZERP declared by the Republic of Croatia was in effect for two and a half months or will be in effect for two and a half months. It is a fact both legal and political, a fact that all those who thought such or such a solution would stress and overemphasise the importance of the ZERP achieve some of its small small objectives and have such in the European Union. Which is why we do not recall that for decades, the Croatian sea has been exploited without supervision in a syphilic and unorganized way, almost as the powderers would say. For decades, it's been exposed to the Adriatic Sea. I don't share on the ZERP or on the territorial sea, I'm talking about the Adriatic Sea as a whole. And if we don't talk about the Adriatic Sea as a whole then we'll find ourselves in a situation where each of our own will be kept and nothing will be preserved. An apple cauldron was mentioned around the island of Apple as a nest, as one biological restoration potential for fauna and flora of the sea, for the biological balance in the Adriatic Sea. However, it should be noted that twelve nautical miles at the Apple are Croatian state territory, it is not ZERP. ZERP is what is behind twelve nautical miles from the island of Apple. And what do we want to achieve? We want to achieve this by keeping the biological balance and the biological potential of the Adriatic Sea maximum. We were obliged to talk to our partners about how to limit this unprecedented extrication as if we were stealing from someone. The Adriatic Sea is not only the sea of Croatia, Italy, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Albania or northern Greece, but the Adriatic Sea is far more than that. The Adriatic Sea is the sea of Europe, Europe which comes to thousands and tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands and Austrians, and the Czechs, and the Slovaks, and the Swedishs, and the Danes, and the Germans, etc. to the Adriatic Sea. When I spoke to Mr Swobod, who is a rapporteur in the European Parliament for Croatia, then I told him just then there was a ceasefire of whoever was in the area of ZERP declared, and which God forbid some tanker of 200,000 tons going to Trieste, Kopar or Rijeka, or I don't know which port we have come to get from this or that reason to an ecological disaster. Then they would tell me about a few tons of whether someone would catch fish or ruin or question the balance of biology in the Adriatic Sea at all and perhaps a longer term of one destruction if not the whole, and then certainly a large part of the fish fund and other biological organisms that live in the Adriatic Sea. So we could have declared ZERP '83, '84, '85, '88, '90. During Yugoslavia, we had eight years to declare a ZERP or an economic belt. We didn't! Why didn't we? We could've done it in '91. and '93. And '97. and '99. And we could've done it in 2000 and 2001. No, it's 2003. 50 days before the election. Now we're listening to the teaching of how this, this declaration, is used for political purposes. If it were the third 10th, the election was declared ZERP without restrictions, we wouldn't have anything to talk about today. Why didn't they take responsibility? Why '99? We didn't take responsibility? Or '95. Why didn't we take responsibility? These are questions that we may not be able to give a full answer today, but it goes back to that finding that every politician, even a high rank, doesn't have to be a statesman. The statesmen should make decisions that will be long-term and that will ensure national interests not from the point of view of the daily policy and from the point of view of three or five years, but should take far longer. And what would be the purpose of this formulation that was adopted on 3 June 2004. So, during this government last time, where it is said: “For the member states of the European Union, the application of the legal regime of the protected ecological and fisheries band of the Republic of Croatia will begin after the conclusion of the Fisheries Partnership Treaty between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia.” The Fisheries Partnership Treaty with the EU is not signed together. Why? It is not about the lack of our will and willingness but on the other hand there was no will for a fishing partnership agreement. That's a fact. They tried to negotiate, they didn't bear fruit. And before that, on October 3, 2003, a colleague quoted it as saying: “The period until the application of the regime will serve to prepare the implementing mechanisms, one but the thesis of the possible conclusion of agreements and arrangements for interested countries and the European Community that was so called. ” Therefore, the idea was then and later to try to find a solution in the negotiations with the European Union, or earlier the European Community, and to find a solution to then come to 2006 by determining 1.1.2008 when it came into effect and we are now trying to postpone application for the countries of the European Union. But all other contents of ZERP remain in force no matter how hard some work to say it's a ZERP suspension. This is not a suspension of the ZERP but rather an attempt to use Italy, Slovenia, but also other Adriatic countries to find lasting solutions to maintain the biological potential of the Adriatic Sea and to protect the Adriatic. This is the goal, and to that end, the government and all those negotiating will go after such a solution, which will also mean saving what is important, and the biological potential and biological balance in the Adriatic Sea is the most important fact, far more important than any other, and in terms of who will catch more or less fish in one or two years. And the fact that for 60 years, it's been hunted down by no one, and no one's ever controlled it. We have to be responsible and we have to make a responsible decision. Whoever wants to be responsible will do the same. Who doesn't want his stuff? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4506	Thank you. Without throwing out the bench, distinguished MPs! Replica. We have three replicas. The first is Honourable representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4507	Mr. President and Mr. President, this isn't about 60 years of taking advantage of the Adriatic. It has been done for centuries to exploit the Adriatic. However, not wanting to go so far back into the past to the Milky Ways, etc. to the old, new Yugoslavia. We are still here in the 21st century. We are at the threshold of joining the European Union, which is a priority, but ZERP is not a condition. And the fact is that ZERP was declared on October 3, 2003. However, I will remind you that December 15th.../The speaker shut down and reactivated./... so they shut me down. So, since 1.1.2008. But I suggest that not only is ZERP discussed in this way by the Croatian Parliament on all topics. So, without the opinion of the Croatian government. We are today in front of the fact that the Croatian Government, which runs this country, which I hope leads Croatia and does not have an opinion towards the European Union. On the side and phonograms, aside and all but there is no written document and position of the Croatian Government. So I ask whether this condition will be Croatia, or Slavonic country tomorrow. Whether it will be something else to put in place as a condition for Croatia's accession to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4508	Your Honor, what you have now stated is clearly stated from this table and read that the Government's opinion is given here, and the Rules of Procedure do not prescribe whether it must be written or oral. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Next replica, Ante Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4509	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The president of the Croatian Parliament said it does not always mean being a statesman that I agree with. However, statehood is neither behaviour in which Croatian statesmen have not used those rights available to them in the protection of Croatian national interests for decades. The fact that no one has previously declared the economic belt or its version of ZERP is about the fact that sometimes Croatian politics has been enslaved by some clichés, or that foreign policy has been determining internal politics for years. I think it should have been in some situations the other way around. That the internal needs, our internal interests sometimes determine some foreign policy goals. In this case, the fact that illegal pressure on Croatia is both from Italy and Slovenia, from the European Union, because the application of the Convention on the Law of the Sea is a bond law rather than a disposing law. So we are bound as a signator of the Convention on the Law must protect the Adriatic Sea because it is a global natural heritage not only of Croatia but of the world's natural heritage and the fact that Italy has devastated the Adriatic Sea, but it has long been forced by Croatian foreign policy to press charges against Italy and Slovenia, which they have declared their ecological zones for which they have not had any coincidences, and Croatia finds themselves in the position in which they are located. It's a responsibility and our policy that couldn't handle it or somehow stand up to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4510	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished House President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4511	I am not so psychic, nor a prophet that I could predict where apartments of historical distance will evaluate one way or another. So it takes time to see who was who and who represented what and whether it was confirmed in practice what he claimed and what he was doing. What I agree with you is that, that was precisely the basis of my debate, that the Adriatic Sea is a world sea, that the Adriatic Sea with such characteristics that rarely such seas have both cleanliness and ecological indicators to all, so to say which can and can be combined and that it is our concern to all and will not only Croatia worry and introduce and fully introduce the belt, therefore the ZERP they are talking about, if everyone else is not doing the same thing and if we do not expand that boiler around the island of Apple and beyond into the area of ZERP. Because Croatia can hunt around the apple and in its 12 miles as it pleases, it is its territorial sea. But the question arises as to what kind of later or at all reflects other biological situations in other parts of the Adriatic Sea. So without cooperation with Italy, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Albania, Greece, there is no rescue for the Adriatic. If we don't all take care of tankers and possible handicrafts that can happen that way. So talking about ZERP as something that's isolated, which has nothing to do with the other is illusory because it's one organism that breathes and affects other areas of the Adriatic Sea because it's not there, there's electricity, there's waves, we know what the sea is like. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4512	Thank you. And another replica, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4513	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. President, you quoted exactly the part of the 2003 decision that explains why, because when the decision was made, it was then decided to be a year delay in its application. However, even after tonight's debate, it is still not clear to me, which is why the HDZ government is practically then after a few months since you took power, somewhere it seems to me in the first month, so in early 2004, you took over power, and already in the 6th month, there is a change in decision. In practice, after a few months you gave up on me to say so, that this decision also applies to the members of the Union. And another thing I wanted to say. It was convenient to actually hear from you the debate about the responsibility of politicians and when politicians are also statesmen. But I have to say that for me, there was not a bit of state either of the prime minister, nor of the members of the government, nor of the HDZ that practically a few years had failed in the negotiations and when it came to ZERP, and at the same time all of us were convinced that everything was not fine, that everything was going well and that we would normally be able to use ZERP. And least of all, the state's thing is that we've practically been held by the citizens until the last minute in the belief that everything is fine, and yet today we're still trying to say that it's actually a kind of blackmail and that we here have to choose between the ZERP and the European Union, and it's actually about your commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4514	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished House President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4515	You asked why... Why wasn't it in 2003? [[You don't understand.]] Why isn't it 1999? Why isn't it 1986? Why isn't it? Someone answer me here qualified and determined and reasoned which is why it was not declared when it was possible under the 1982 International Convention. Why? Because it says here that it is possible to conclude an agreement and arrangement with interested countries and the European Community signed by Zlatko Tomcic on 3 October. So... It's not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's why it was needed in 2004, which is why we are in negotiations, no one has said that negotiations if negotiations always have to go smoothly and that we are constantly going along a straight line. All politics and life is made up of combinations, eye and eyelashes. So what you're setting me up to do, I'm setting you up. Why did you declare ZERP 50 days before the election and postpone the year of application? Why didn't you take responsibility? I'm asking why President Tudjman didn't take responsibility, and I'm asking why the leadership of Croatia and Yugoslavia in 83 did not take responsibility. If that's what we're gonna say, then we can go crazy. Why 50 years of sailing on the Adriatic without any control? Why? For who? Who's to blame? Please, let's be responsible and talk complexly, not just on our own lines and on our own. You're talking about 2004, and I'm talking about 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4516	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the club, distinguished representative Branimir Glavas, five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4517	Your Honor, Mr. President. I thought I'd talk about what you were talking about, so I'll brief a few of my thoughts on behalf of the club. I'd like to say that this debate about the ZERP that's been going on for the past five years is nothing but public entertainment. Since October 2003, when Parliament first decided on the fact that the decision was taken 50 days before the elections, and we will remember all the assemblies that were in the previous assembly that Mr Tonci Tadic had been in session for months, and even more than a year had proposed his legislative initiative in this House and that then the ruling coalition simply did not want to put forward a debate on the legislative proposal, the act adopted by the Parliament until before the elections, but with agreement and in agreement with the opposition of today's ruling party. Therefore, both the left and the right sides decided and agreed 50 days before the 2003 elections to open the issue of interest to a large number of Croatian fishermen, of interest to the territory of Dalmatia, or the Croatian coast and then to collect cheap political points, each of them made a decision and adopted an act extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea on 3 October 2003, and immediately fenced in the act to extend the legal regime of postponement, for 12 months. After the elections, leaving the ruling coalition from power and the arrival of a new ruling set of the Croatian Democratic Community in November 2003, a new ruling set was found in problems, how to apply something that was not even on their mind that it could be applied, because the circumstances had not changed in 2003 or 2008 and the same circumstances existed during President Tudjman or other Tito in the former Yugoslavia. In 2004, this hot potato new ruling set, the Croatian Democratic Community took over and found a formula and model for prolonging, i.e. never to realize what the Croatian Parliament adopted. He confirmed that in 2006. In 2006, the third act of this play was played and we are now in a position to conclude today's fourth act of this play and simply take it off the agenda for all time. From this place I tell Croatian citizens that ZERP has nothing and that ZERP will never apply and today's debate is a final and final debate on ZERP, and everything else has been placed and simulated in this House to collect cheap political points, both left and right. And for this reason, the Croatian Democratic Union club Slavonia and Baranja will raise their hand for this proposal, amending the Decision extending Croatia's jurisdiction to the Adriatic Sea for a simple reason to remove it from the agenda, to continue negotiations without burden and without the pressure that Croatia is exposed to, and to be able to shorten this path of entry into the European Union even though I am sure that the pre-accession negotiations will not end in 2009, as it has often mentioned here tonight that this is the reason and that these negotiations will end and end. They will not end, they will last much longer than the current ruling political furniture announces, but regardless, I think we should patiently negotiate. I am convinced that the day and years will come, that they will successfully end and realise these negotiations and that Croatia will enter the European Union, but ZERP will never apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4518	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4519	Thank you very much. Representative Glavas said that both of them, not knowing who he meant,... A member of the HDZ, so 50 days before the election, made a proposal for a decision, adopted a decision to declare the ZERP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian party of rights did not support that decision then, because... We had our proposal for a decision to declare only an economic belt, and we launched the initiative as a party in the Croatian Parliament in 2001, so far away it was until the elections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just a matter of precision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4520	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the charges for the hearing. I'm closing the debate. And I'm voting on the next conclusion. ... About what? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4521	On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4522	For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4523	And before joining the vote on this wheel. Since business conditions have not been met, since there is no government opinion on the proposal for a decision, and no indication of the amendments submitted requires a half-hour break for... You guys calm down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Be patient and sit down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4524	Mr. Representative! I'm still running this Parliament. When you sit here, you will suggest and answer. And I'll read you what the Prime Minister of this country said this morning in front of all the MPs for the second time. ... No writing, so far we've been... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Amendments shall be made by the Proposer and the Government, whether or not the Proposer of the Law. ... Please! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] After reading the Government's opinion... So, Mr. Lesar, what do you want? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I don't know what this is about, but here's another Mrs. Milanka Opacic calling for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4525	So I'm also asking you on behalf of the SDP club break maybe something shorter, less than half an hour, but in any case I'm looking for a break in accordance with the Club's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4526	I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. We continue at 23 hours or at 00 and 30 minutes. The proposal for a decision to amend the Decision extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea is proposed by the HDZ Representatives Club. The debate on the proposal for a decision is over. The amendments were submitted by the SDSS Representatives' Club, the HNS Representatives' Club. I would ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted, with Article 168. The Rules of Procedure say: "The amendments are declared by the Proposer and the Government whether or not he is the legislator. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.". Here you are, the president of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Andrija Hebrang. Here you go. Amendment to the Club of Representatives of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4528	The SDSS amendment in the content section is accepted, by proposing that the amendment be translated "minimum" into "maximum" and to submit instead of in the form of amendments as the second conclusion of today's debate. In that form, they could accept it if the applicant agrees.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4529	It's consensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4530	All right. And we have an amendment to the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4531	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4532	Thank you very much. I ask the Government's representative to be shown about the amendments or the acceptance of the SDSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4533	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, just as Mr. President of the HDZ Club said the government also accepts this proposal but in the form of a conclusion rather than an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4534	... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4535	Consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4536	As far as the amendments submitted by the HNS Representatives' Club are concerned, the Government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-12-0.u4537	I am voting the motion for decisions together with the adopted HNS amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. The decision was adopted by 77 votes to 5 against and 56 abstentions. Therefore, the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea in the text proposed by the Proposer together with the amendment adopted was adopted. I am now giving the proposal for a conclusion submitted by the Independent Democratic Serb Party's Club of Representatives in the text as you received it with that correction instead of "minimum" "maximum", so in this text where this word: "minimum" will be replaced by the word "maximum". Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? The conclusion was accepted by 84 votes in favour and 53 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is what we ended this part of our agenda today. Tomorrow we continue the session of the Parliament at 10:30. Today at 10:30 a.m. on the agenda how, in that old order we haven't yet completed, but we're going in that old order, and tomorrow you're going to get on the bench an updated agenda and everything else. Thank you very much, good night. The session was interrupted at 12:45. Ladies and gentlemen and Madam Representatives, I wish everyone a good morning. I hope you relaxed and rested last night, which some say didn't work out, but here we are hoping that today we'll have a more peaceful day and a more casual debate, so I suggest we move on to the agenda, with the 1st item of the agenda stuck in traffic somewhere, so I suggest we move on temporarily, i.e. go back to the 2nd point of the agenda when the Agency's representative shows up. We move to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, first reading of P.Z. No. 8 Proposer of the Law is SDP's Club of Representatives. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the sessions. The government delivered an opinion. Meanwhile, I was informed that the Legislative Committee has also discussed this bill. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. On behalf of the SDP club...... You didn't say you were going to speak for the club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
