ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21216	We're going to a debate. - Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2007, with a summary: The National Civil Society Development Foundation is the Carrier of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development which submitted this report on the basis of Article 6. Law on the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Foundation manager Tsvetana Plavša Matic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21217	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, before you is the Annual Report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2007, the year which is actually the end of the first four-year period of operation of the National Foundation and which is also the continuity of the activities carried out over the past four years. In the report, you will see a review of the activities that took place under the motto "It is important to have support" through the financial support we have given to small civil initiatives, projects and programmes of civil society organisations that contribute to the development of local communities, the democratisation of society, the institutional support granted to civil society organisations. The next type of support we have provided is cooperation and partnership through non-profit media projects, research and international development cooperation. Support is provided through information and publishing and through cross-sectoral and international cooperation. The significance of 2007 is that the National Foundation has started the process of decentralisation of financial support at local and regional level and has concluded partnership agreements with networks of civil society organisations providing services for regional development, so that there is a significant step in the work and operation of civil society organisations. And it is certainly important and an element related to the participation of the foundation in the implementation of the National Strategy for the creation of an incentive environment for the development of civil society. Traditionally in our report you have a summary of all projects and programmes financed as well as revenue and expenditure accounts. And what is also important is that in 2007, the National Foundation continued to use, i.e. the beneficiary of the international ISO 9001 certificate in this area of action, to grant financial support to civil society organisations. Thank you very much. Here, it's a brief review of what was done in 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21218	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Mr Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21219	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected principals, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP supports the report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development in 2007 primarily for the very support of civil society organisations through competitions and calls for co-operation. It certainly mentions support for civil initiatives of projects, support for institutional strengthening of civil society organisations, decentralisation of regional development programmes, non-profit media projects and research support projects. The foundation also provides great support and among the first in Croatia has worked on education for international and cross-sectoral cooperation and the promotion of European values. In cooperation with IKAS, the Foundation has also made a major education on the European Union institutions, the Union itself and among the first in Croatia, and has started working actively to promote the use of European funds. But the foundation is ahead of some other issues and some other issues in the Republic of Croatia. Among the first, it also recognised the importance of investment in quality infrastructure and now certification for system management has given support, which is one of the key same elements in the development of civil society. It should certainly be mentioned that the foundation actively encourages and works on decentralisation and we can freely say that this decentralization done by the foundation can be a visual copy of even a pioneer of quality decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia. It should certainly be commended for the publishing activity of the Foundation by guides through associations in the European Union, various other guides and manuals that can help associations in their work to the civil society bulletins in the European Union through which each user can see the importance of the civil sector in the European Union and how realistic a partnership between the institutions of the European Union and civil society organisations is. Also, great praise for the magazine Civil Society, which has the potential to become one of the best, even scientific journals on civil society at the level of Europe. Also, at the technical level, it should be commended that the foundation even uses Linux and "open source" programs, which means on the one hand that it is working on savings, and on the other hand that at that level it is believed that it is right in collaborative projects. Also a foundation that has been certified by ISO 9000 systems itself encourages associations to work themselves according to quality standards whether "Sokland standard" or some other. Through competitions, if you follow the same associations can provide indicators that will monitor their quality and that will monitor the quality of the project itself, and what is very important, among the first ones in Croatia started, and then certain ministries began to monitor when the competitions were followed by volunteering. And the share of volunteer hours in the project itself, which from the statistical level can help us see what the share of volunteer hours in the gross social product, or even see what the kuna value of volunteer hours is through the projects. Great Britain, I don't know if you know, in 2005, by some calculations, she had a few dozen billion pounds of the value of volunteer hours. The Foundation has a really great social impact, as it promotes the values found in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 3, it promotes volunteerism and certain ideals especially for young people, which means the right to take care of the wider social development in part. According to some indicators in the Republic of Croatia, almost and more than a third of the population are members of at least one organisation. Let us not forget that the civil sector is not only formal organisations, and even more than 70% of citizens have come into contact with the civil sector, so if anything else through various humanitarian actions that have helped one or more people. According to one definition, the civil sector is the space between the populations, the government and the private sector, i.e. the market in which citizens join to promote their own interests. Civil society is also dealing with very sensitive issues, often sensitive issues, and in public shows its issues that can be truly unpopular at the moment, which is why many people today consider the civil sector hostile, even anti-state. The civil sector has a very important function. Indeed, between these three sectors of civil, public and market, it must be an equal partner and must play an advisory and corrective role for those other stakeholders in the triangle. Although the civil sector has problems alone within the organization we have in a minority of issues with self-criticity, lack even the very evaluation, and even the fact that in some associations or associations themselves are used as fronts for private profit, it is still one particular minority. In this majority, it is clear to us in the SDP Club that we must rely on the civil sector, because citizens' associations contribute in many ways both to the front and to the issues of culture, education, and social and youth and also to the issues of the European Union. It is equally up to the Parliament and the Government to help the foundation itself, to continue the decentralisation process, and to encourage units of local self-government to start setting up advice for civil society development at the level of units of local self-government, to adopt criteria for financing projects and to continue to work together with the trust and local civil society-enhancing foundations. And now, instead of the government recognising these advantages of civil society, we have witnessed one completely different policy in that last term in 2004, until the end of 2006 and the beginning of 2007. As early as 2004, VAT was reintroduced on international donations to associations. The Office for Croatian Government Associations has not functioned for a full year, throughout 2004. During that same period, the Council for Civil Society Development was fully selected. In fact, somewhere in 2005, we also had a statement that we needed funds that were sent down from the government to the trust fund to be centralized again. Thank God that didn't happen, and in the end we had 2006 if I wasn't wrong, at one point even a statement that it was the government that was going to say that the civil sector was going to develop, when it was even an attempt to impose one of the versions of the civil society development strategies. And let us only remember those statements that came out of the Croatian Government's Office of Associations, that Croatia does not need more than 200 associations, that some organisations are anti-Croatian and high-level, that it is necessary to monitor at international level the work of associations and that all those who especially work with the European Union should be monitored for what they say at conferences to see whether they are borderline with anti-Croatian action. I'm just quoting sentences that are given in different interviews from certain individuals. That the feminist movement is violent, that it has the nerve to attack same-sex communities, and then declares that most international donors, through financial assistance, are seeking counter-services from the civil sector that are bordering on anti-Croatian action, and that it is one really nasty statement that offends and those people who, for example, are in professional associations, scientific organisations, which is that only the defence and church organisations were Croatia, and others are seeking the return of Yugoslavia, which is the ultimate insult of the day in the 21st century. And then the change comes in 2007. It is not for us in the SDP because of the sudden enlightenment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on civil society, but because of the images that we have left in the European Union with such a way of working and because such a practice which was in Croatia is completely contrary to the practice that exists in the Union, the real, real partnership with the civil sector. Today, this partnership that we're talking about is declarative. The right between sectoral cooperation between civil, government and private sectors with advisory and corrective elements is non-existent. What we have is a quiet existence. Today, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia himself did not, for example, say civil society in this House as part of a sentence. Civil sector capital is not used. Its potential primarily in knowledge, experience and lobbying opportunities towards Brussels. On the other hand, we testified yesterday and the day before yesterday that the civil activists of informal organizations were brought to the police. It's something that can't happen if we talk about civil and government partnerships. Civil society has a major impact in the European Union. Our associations, which should pay particular attention to this, our associations also participate as external associates in the work of the European Parliament Committee through international associations. Our associations have an impact on decision-making in the European Union. The initiatives of the organisation of the whole society and are easier to accept. The example is that in 2011, it was declared a year of volunteerism, and it is best to talk about the impact of associations and the implementation of the "D" plan a few years ago "Dialogo, Debate, Democracy" where associations were just a key partner to the European Union institutions in communicating Europe to citizens but were also a link between local communities and European institutions. Finally, as far as the European Union is concerned, see only the benefits of national states from their associations. Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia have raised a general percentage of the withdrawal of funds from European funds to those countries. In fact, even of all sectors, they were the best. Finally, in Croatia, cooperation between the civil sector, the government sector and the market, respectively... The sector must be implemented in practice, not just declarative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, there is no political will at this point. The government must encourage decentralisation further. To open more governments, more of your doors to civil society organisations. The same goes for local self-government units. I should make full use of social capital and civil society's potential in particular in matters of accession to the European Union. Greater integration of all sectors means greater benefits for the Republic of Croatia, but it depends entirely on trust. The civil sector must have a corrective, corrective and advisory role both for the government and for the market, and when the Government and the market do not like it, but it must also work the same way. That this trust and cooperation can work as an example is precisely the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, which they have formed and transformed into an internationally recognised quality institution precisely for people in the civil sector. The latest developments, the last few days including the arrest of civil activists, have unfortunately shown that we are very, very far from that trust and cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21220	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21221	Thank you very much. Well, a esteemed colleague in a series of inaccuracies said the next thing I'm going to quote. He says: “Some have criticised associations of same - sex communities and similar ones, others have highlighted the importance of only religious and similar associations. That's not true. They didn't criticise or point out. They were just saying their views. In a democratic society, we must also get used to respecting a different attitude. If he is entitled to his position, associations and civil society have the right to all other citizens and even a politician can express his right. So it's incorrect, no one criticized, no one pointed out but expressed his position. Democracy is unfortunately a colleague that you must listen to a different opinion than yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21222	Club of HDZ Representatives Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21223	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Directors with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In the beginning, I will point out that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this report for several reasons. We must begin by ourselves to establish that the Copenhagen criteria for joining the Union, too, stresses among others that the power of civil society is an indicator of the vitality of a modern democracy. Therefore, the political criterion of the stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect and protection of minorities, the understanding and promotion of the development of civil society in all countries, or the achievement of the minimum necessary level of civil society development, is indeed necessary for all. In 2003, the Republic of Croatia introduced a new model of organisational structure, which will allow us to encourage the further development of civil society through the establishment of the so-called National Foundation for Civil Society Development, which primarily has its primary objective and purpose of promoting and developing civil society in the Republic of Croatia. The National Foundation for Civil Society Development was established, I said, with a fundamental purpose of promoting and developing civil society. It today provides professional and financial support to programmes that promote the sustainability of the non-profit sector, inter-resorship cooperation, civil initiatives, philanthropy, volunteering that promotes democratic institutions of society, as well as other programmes that are being implemented for the fundamental purpose of this foundation for which it is established. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The funds exist today in our society, and in particular exist in European countries where they are well-recognized as support to the government sector, as an expression of organised civil awareness of responsibility to the community, I have said the unsustainable factor of active civil society. We also have this report on the work of our foundation, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development in 2007, which I could also say some final analysis done over the past 4 years by the National Foundation. The report shows that the National Foundation has managed to halt potential negative trends through its action and financial support programme and I could say stabilise further development of civil society organisations. The Foundation was founded at a turning point for the development of civil society in Croatia when there was a change in the structure of the funding source for projects and programmes of civil society organisations, which was primarily caused by the departure of many international donors. So the foundation then jumped in and helped all civil society associations to manage these projects and programmes. The National Foundation for Civil Society Development during its years of action has become an important democratic factor in our society. In addition to the model of encouraging regional development of civil society organisations by granting aid in competitions and calls for expressed interests, in order to inform the public of cross-sectoral, international cooperation and support partnerships of the implementation of the National Strategy for the creation of an incentive environment of civil society. The Fund shall be particularly highlighted in the implementation of the model of decentralisation of financial support. After years of preparations in 2007, so the year on which this report is speaking began with the approval of financial support for citizens' initiatives, our contribution to the community recognised under that title. According to the new decentralised support model, this means it has been made possible for local associations and other non-profit organisations to finance civil initiatives at the nearest regional level. For this purpose and for this purpose, the National Foundation has signed agreements with four regional foundations in Split, Osijek, Zagreb and Pula that have opened the tender and then allocated funds to work and encourage the work of associations in its field, which is extremely good because I think these regional centres know very well the work of the associations and then it is less likely that these associations are using inadequate funds for their programmes and purposes. That's what my colleague Mondekar was talking about, because the fact that we have an extremely large number of associations that are sometimes don't get angry, but really self-inflicted, they have that kind of program. It was this regionalism that allowed those communities, those regional offices to recognize work and know better than a national foundation that we could say centrally shared the same financial resources. I think it's a good step made in 2007 at the National Foundation. In the area of developing democracy and strengthening civil society, I think colleagues and colleagues that Croatia has done a lot. She did and made significant steps just by establishing this national foundation. Croatia also has the government's Office for Associations that also move, which also encourages and promotes the work of associations. We can say that the active NGO also enjoys the benefits of a more favourable legal environment, and so have we, who have passed positive laws and regulations. It has a growing impact on the most important government policy. The majority of the government's bodies, and therefore they cannot agree with what counterpart Mondekar said earlier, provide greater support to associations, and the support of the business sector is rapidly increasing. So employers, companies, companies, companies recognize the work of some associations and encourage their work. Associations are recognised as an important component of society by most citizens, and an increasing number of associations have a stable organisational structure and strategic plans, missions, promotional programs, and it is good that each year our associations strengthen their organisation, their organisation, and thus they are both recognizable and acceptable to all of us, the whole society. Large shifts have been made to create conditions for Croatia's accession to the European Union, which we must stress. Through democratisation, decentralisation of state governance as well as through a system of support to civil society institutions. Because we have to make a significant step here, too, and that's what we did. Aware of the fact that there are still a lot of work ahead of us, the Republic of Croatia will certainly meet European standards in this area and certainly, by respecting civil rights, by strengthening civil society, will strengthen and encourage regional capacities on which our capacity to accept development opportunities opened in the pre-accession and structural funds of the European Union will be strengthened, so we will be able to believe soon, and we have already shown in some pre-accession funds that we can fully meet the criteria of the European Union. This can be done by a large number of our civil society associations, which I believe is also the government's office, and in particular the foundation we're talking about today, has helped all civil society associations. And that is why I will point out once again, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept the 2007 Work Report because the motto of this foundation itself and the motto of this report by your director bears the title and message, it is important to have support.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21224	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21225	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Director. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support this report, but I am obliged to say immediately that speaking on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS I speak in a way and firsthand, because I had the honour of participating in the process of establishing this foundation and also for some time being a member of its Management Board. These days, it has been five years since we witnessed the establishment of the Civil Society Development Foundation as one of the greatest steps forward in mutual understanding of the public state sector and the space of civil society. We note and remember what happened in the 1990s on the social valorisation plan of associations, NGOs, civil society associations, and we do not remember that time happy and satisfied but rather concerned that it could have been, which could have happened in a country that has a relatively long tradition of civil society associations since the old brotherhood and even in the age of socialism, that infrastructure existed, was strong and in its own way valorized the social capital of society by opposing the totalitarian system. But fortunately, it's time behind us. In the 1990s, the government, in the late 1990s, the government made a very good move, which is the establishment of an Office for Associations of the Government of Croatia which opened a new page in the country's dialogue and the NGO's civil sector over the years. The work of the then Office of Associations can be called pioneering in many ways. On the one hand, it was worth changing the position of the state representatives themselves and understanding the highest state officials, the ministry's representatives for the social benefit of civil society's role. On the other hand, in the civil sector, it was also necessary to encourage confidence that a change could occur in this dialogue. The document, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia formulated in cooperation with the civil sector in 2001, is a famous declaration that actually opened a new chapter in the mutual cooperation of the civil sector with the state but also indicated very important topics of cooperation and with the business sector which also plays a very large role in the activation of social capital, social capital as a third. There was a time when new models of functioning were to be considered both state, public and civil society in some new circumstances and possibilities of cooperation and, above all, financial monitoring of those programmes that could lead to the development of civil society. The activities of the Association Office and then continued in a very positive atmosphere, continued with the initiative to set up advice on civil society development. I had the honour of being the first president of this council, and I am proud at a time in which in a little less than two years we have established new patterns of functioning, we have launched new initiatives, we have developed a strategy for civil society development and we have raised civil and public sector dialogue to a much higher level than it was before. One of the products of such a new approach was the idea of establishing a public foundation in the Republic of Croatia which will trace the experiences and needs of civil society on the one hand, the ability of the state on the other hand, the responsibility of the state as well as the experiences that similar foundations have in many other countries, and this idea, in late 2003, thanks to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government, has been covered by a special law, and for five years now we have a foundation with which we can be proud. Unfortunately, no similar development has occurred in other segments that have followed or are still following the development of civil society in the public sector, and when I say so, I mean, first of all, the Office for Associations that went through a major crisis and their identity but also their public influence, so if you want a reputation in 2004 and 2005. Fortunately, and it's time behind us, so the rhetoric we still remember from the mouth of the then head of the office isn't something we'd remember with pride but well that it went away and that the sooner we forget. But what concerns me is another detail about the functioning of the state administration, which is how individual ministries behave in dialogue, in cooperation and in their commitments to the NGO sector. This cannot, of course, be generalised but there are many examples from which it is evident that the ministries have not learned anything from the model by which the foundation works or which it has offered as a public standard of public money availability. So believe it or not last week or last weekend, you have a contest from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to grant funds for programmes to promote friendship among the peoples. Translated in Croatian, this means financing associations of friendships between Croatia and other countries. This is thus announced the day before the beginning of the last month of the year and is related to the financing of the programme in 2008. It is simply something that is inadmissible, that the ministry distributes funds in late December for the current year. So in 2002, we were able to move that deadline to summer and in 2003 somewhere on March or April because there is absolutely no point in sharing budgets in December for the work of associations that, by law, by the end of March, must bring their final financial plan for that year. That's underestimation, and if you want to mock the work of all those activists and volunteers who work in those organizations. It can't work like that, the more we've known the state budget since January of this year. So we knew very well what resources would be available to the ministries and when it comes to variable means such as money from gambling that can be higher and can be lower, depending on how many people play, how it is earned. Then you go on average planning so these things are corrected in the last quarter of the year, as was the case so far. Therefore, why the deadline is re-routed and why NGOs are not allowed to finance their programmes normally during the current year. This is the way it's supposed to be. It will receive programming for 2008 probably in early January, and how it will then implement them in 2009. The Civil Society Development Fund played a major role in setting models that would strengthen public sector responsibility towards the distribution of funds and I am sorry that the Foreign Ministry is not working in a way that has been developed and has shown a whole series of positive effects so far. Furthermore, developing a wide range of competitions for different programming areas and organisational institutional support to the Foundation's organisations in four operational years has significantly contributed not only to the empowerment of associations, sectoral integration and networking, the development of volunteerism, social affirmation of volunteer work, the emergence of civil society associations, the education of activists and volunteers, the strengthening of the model of self-sustainability of associations, but also international cooperation between NGOs, where channels and bridges are opened to associations operating in the Republic of Croatia, achieving cooperation with similar associations abroad, conveying positive experiences from both Croatia and abroad. It's been a while since foreign donations, so it's gone and hard to be. In the 1990s, unfortunately, the non-governmental sector depended on financial support from international foundations and international elections. By the end of the '90s, it was clear that these sources would be dried up sooner or later, and today they may be a small part of the total funds that are being strengthened by civil society. In this sense, the role of the foundation is irreplaceable, it is one that has managed to compensate in many cases and in many sectors foreign donors, introducing entirely new models of valorizing their work. Because as you know many international organisations are nominally instructed large amounts that have invested in the development of civil society in Croatia, and in fact if you were to draw a line then you would realize that more than half of the money was actually spent by the organization for its cold drives and its own needs and only half transferred further. It's different in the trust. Today, a stable institution, established under special law, is teamed by professionals, has built a high degree of understanding and coordination and co-operation with civil society sectors. She also owns properties that guarantee her stable functioning. It has also started on its regionalisation project, i.e. decentralisation, to promote regional, regional foundations, for years it has been encouraging institutional strengthening of regional centres, the development of civil society, regional players that can be much closer to that whole set of small associations and initiatives that work to develop different civil initiatives. We hope that the government will realize that the foundation can act even more successfully if it has stable financial revenues, if not every little bit of cake and gambling is taken for other purposes, and reduces all others and includes the trust. If it is not going to radicalise relations with some initiatives, as is the case these days when citizens' initiatives are being persecuted in a way to bring in different social activity initiators and the police. I hope that the bad atmosphere that once ruled between the government and civil society will not return. I hope that it will understand the role of the Civil Society Development Council, that it will strengthen it and restore the opportunities and tools that were available to make public and civil sector relations work better. In this regard, I congratulate all the employees of the foundation, professionals and all those who participate in the management of its system on the results achieved so far and wish you happy next 55 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21226	Nice. Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations that my colleague made in his debate, which is that the ministries had their budget in January this year. I don't know if we're sitting in the same Parliament, we just built a Parliament in January, formed a new government, a new ministry, only if our colleagues know some other facts that are not clear to us from the other parliamentarians. And it is certain that in January they could not even know exactly, the budget was not, they could not know the exact revenues from gambling, and better now than never, because I am sure that the civil society associations also consider that the funds intended to support their programmes were allocated and divided and to come into the right hands, rather than to be left out in 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21228	HDSSB Representatives' Club. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21229	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the foundation, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, a little previous debate and correction of an incorrect quote is just one of the problems I want to talk about here, and I thought I'd start with that motto of this annual report on the work of the National Foundation, it's important to have support. Supporting the development of civil society, after all those I say, the birth pains mentioned here, which are spoken of here by previous speakers, deserves our support here in the Parliament. Especially since civil society clearly recognises the signs of time and the needs of Croatian citizens. Especially the need for dialogue, debate, democracy and the right to information. According to a survey called the Assessment of the State of Development, a civil society organisation in the Republic of Croatia from 2007 which was conducted on 745 surveyed, therefore, associations, even... % of them have a form of cooperation with each other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most common motive for this cooperation, therefore, was the common interest among associations, the integration of available capacities, and the assistance of one association to another. In this material here, we see, in some sense, that it decentralised the model of financing development, which is to say hello, and that's where it recognized the sign of time. So there are foundations in Split, Osijek, Pula and Zagreb, along with infrastructure and other cities throughout Croatia. The issue is co-operation with the state, therefore, except for the cooperation between each other, associations. A quarter of the surveyed associations in the Republic of Croatia believe the state is uninterested in the civil sector and even assesses the importance of the civil sector. A small number believe the state supports the civil sector, but because of pressure from the outside. Interesting. While the same number states it has good co-operation with, and the state thus supports the financial development of these associations and is recognised as partners. When it comes to local self-government, local and regional self-government, then dissatisfaction with the co-operation of civil associations with those communities expressed 20% of the civil sector organisations surveyed. In the survey or survey, one of the problems is in co-operation that is recognised by a quarter of the associations that perform public relations with the public sector, with the state, the high role of informal contacts is cited. It is this problem, therefore, that there are no institutionalised forms and frameworks for co-operation, so those frameworks that would somehow be given are actually cited as a problem of the absence of such an institutionalised form of cooperation. When it comes to the very ministries in which the programmes and programming areas of civil associations are run, then these days and personally I was given a place in which I live, in a city where I live in Slavonski Brod, is not an appeal, but a regrettable one with precisely inefficiencies and intransparentity of work on the resolution of competitions in these ministries. The programme of an association that deals with assistance, so volunteering for disabled children, children with development problems is that the competition was held at the end of August, the other day they received notice, so here is the end of the year, another month, and the funds are intended for 2008. Furthermore, if it is the means and funding of gambling, then I must say, first of all, the lottery funds are available to the state. What belongs to people with disabilities, they do not have direct financial reports and distribution, but it goes clearly across the state, which is why there is another interconnection, and then something is lost to both quality and direct transaction, so according to associations. The percentage was reduced from 30% to 27% for associations, the percentage of Croatian lottery profits was 30, reduced to 27%. I've already pointed out that the competitions that are being debated are running late, here's almost a year. Competitions should start for next year, and now they're only actually only in the process of realising and transferring money to associations, and here's the December of this year. Commissions or distribution committees work fairly non-transparently, so they are slightly and untouchable, they are difficult to communicate with. I also got one question the other day that there's a model, only here's a convenient opportunity, that's what's going on, that because of this same association has been running for 4 years and getting funding from the Ministry of Education, so Mr. Primorac, our minister, and this year with the same paperwork that she's been missing, so they're not clear and they're wondering how they've been getting that on the same asset file for three years, they're missing something formally this year. So they're bitter and sad about it. And it's about volunteers helping children with developmental disturbances. There are no notices in the results and there are no arguments on the results of the competitions. Furthermore, it is not only the Croatian lottery that is the only form or organisation that implements gambling. There's a lot of bookies, prize games starting with the media and on and on and on and on. Is it even that we are here in the Parliament, whether the government has taken into account that part of it can be allocated part of the funds for civil sector associations. I think that we should consider all of this here together, and the foundation to propose that the Croatian Government, and clearly I think that there is a positive relationship to, as far as I can see from this debate, so that we should include it in order to increase the amount of money that could then be available to the civil sector associations for their work, which is indeed to be commended, given that it is a volunteer and large part, and since it contributes to the common community and makes a clear contribution to our reputation, to our image, here is this last phase, the final stage of our country's accession to the European Union, which is certainly taking care of civil society associations. Here, it is clear from that that to support the work of your foundation and in the hope that all that the parliamentary representatives today in the debate will say that you will also take into account in your work, and we see that this work, to say more and better, to respect yourself more and more, and then we will work together on the development of civil society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21230	Thank you. For the club IDS, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21231	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. Clearly, as everyone more or less pointed out, civil society is not, nor can it be, nor can anyone experience it with some remethylative factor. I'd be the last one to say that. I won the HHO award in 2000 when there weren't some people there, when there was another time and I really care about it. I think that civil society has contributed to democracy, it has contributed to change, there is no society without that system, I would almost dare say that in some way the conscience of society, civil society is just as desperately needed. They must be absolutely autonomous in all of this. They dared to talk about what was not to be spoken of here at the Assembly speaker. Therefore, if anyone needs them, Croatia needs them at this time, if they need to speak somewhere they should speak in Croatia. If there is somewhere to fight behind freedom of expression, even for a higher level of some of the latest developments around facebooks, etc. then they should perform in Croatia. But there's also one but. Nor are these civil associations the same if we want to be honest, they are not always and at all sinless. It is clear what my predecessors said, civil society must be autonomous and this autonomy of civil society should also be fought by this Parliament. To make a joke, this is where their autonomy should be kept as a pupil of their own eye, for example. The autonomy of the media, but if they e.g. They talk about us in some way, then they also have to be ready to talk about them. That would be legitimate, that would be fair, that would be clear only to be honest. It is no intimidation, because he would dare say that their power at this time is far greater than the Croatian Parliament itself. As with all things, and when it comes to associations, much comes down to not only the idea but also the money. I will not talk about what may be the most popular or unpopular thing in this country today about saving, but I will say that the one who gives money to the associations is clear that he can often expect and expect some service back. Who does our associations or largely finance that civil society? It is funded by the Government by those who receive that service or money, clearly expecting one correctly under quotes, behavior. The money is granted by local self-government, and she expects the same thing. Sometimes, as it seems to me, a little before someone told me, a lot of money to finance civil society came from strangers. It's enough to mention Soros. It is clear that they too had certain intentions in these areas, today Croatia is not controlled under quotes. Today it is controlled by, say, privatised banks, the EU and so on, but today, to a large extent, more and more the civil society of the association is funding large capital, and these last or fourth ones are dared to say the worst of all, because none of their investments, and we can call it investment, are blind. By yesterday they invested I'd say in these projects that they wouldn't be called, and today they might have some political moments for them. When it connects to the media, it turns into a political project. The public is often called out to each other, we call out political parties, ok. with full right. Why? Because those in power control two-thirds of gross social product. But when it was the last report on the work of parliamentary parties, Ms. Šima Krasic, she said one dared I say an anthological sentence which the media did not convey, and she literally said that these reports were better than any other where the review first entered. The total budget of 2007 of all parties was 180 million kuna. That's about five times more than this National Foundation for Civil Society Development won in 2007. I argue that associations today in the Republic of Croatia are getting through various channels and three, maybe four, maybe five times more money than political parties are getting. B.a.b.e., GONG, Green Istria, etc. So they all have calculations bigger than IDS. Some have, but a man asks himself a question when, for example, The audit goes in and we call them that, associations. What I would like to welcome in this report is this kind of decentralisation of the financing of associations, so the fabric is said on page 2 that the National Foundation for Civil Society Development after years of preparation in 2007 started a decentralised model of granting financial support, a decentralised model of providing financial support to civil initiatives to local associations, other non-profit organisations, the financing of their citizens' initiatives at their nearest regional level, etc. and this is happening in Split, Osijek, Pula, Zagreb. It's all right, it's absolutely welcome. However, on the other hand, it is said that these projects, as I read them, weigh everything here on this page 4, based on a decentralised tender for civic initiatives, are our contribution to the community, or perhaps only one of them, are funded 23 initiatives totalling only 180 thousand kuna. So these funds are still largely centralized. However, what is certainly a key part of this report, these are financial support approved in 2007 tenders, so we have together for a better million and 740 thousand kuna, democracy and the development of civil society 3.9 million kuna. So we have institutional support in the development or stabilisation of the association 4.7 million kuna. Well, I don't know, 2004, 2005, 2006, a whole series of these projects, for example. 89 institutional support for the stabilisation and development of the Association approved in 2004, 2006 to continue financing in 2007 totalling 15.8 million kuna. So we have 13 multi-annual and three-year programmes in the area of democracy and the development of civil society, 991 thousand kuna. So then we have 16 non-profit media projects in the amount of a million and 429 thousand kuna. Five association-connection programmes on the subject of European integrations million and 491 thousand kunas and now I'm not counting anything further, but I'm going to read one piece of information so you can simply see in which order is the size of the word. The National Foundation for the first four years of its operation in 2004-2007 has 86.2 million kunas invested in civil initiatives, projects, programmes and institutional support of civil society organisations, cooperation programmes and decentralisation and regional development programmes. I repeat once again it's about 86.2 million kuna, and everyone will agree with me that 86.2 million kuna is this one respectable money. And that's why I think the state's audit of these funds is kind of "need to act." Once again, I have absolutely nothing against civil society, but I repeat, often are associations or civil society I would say the conscience of this society. Sometimes I get distracted when it comes to it, just plantings that we keep track of every day. It bothers me when, for example, you know. These shows can block almost every investment. LNG, Gas, the Adria Society, oil, the exit of the pipeline to the Istrian mainland, gas, the Adria Society, and this unfortunate Rockwool, etc. Okay, the location there isn't the happiest choice, I admit it. But if 90 percent of the problems caused by Rockwool a year ago, 90 percent of the problems today are caused by others. And when he does, and there will be a wave of layoffs, and in Labin, Buzet is on his way, I dare say that he will be a happy mother who will have his son there employed because in the first year of his work he will have about 0.5% of Croatian exports. It is also true that local self-government wanted them, but some activists who are in various organizations today who are up against them, and the only one who was against them and that was the truth was Jakovcic. But now, let's let it go. And that's how I'm going to end up. It cannot be absolutely against almost any industrial project that is happening in the Republic of Croatia. The same association should take care of it or civil society. Without industry, Istria would be hungry. Only in Istria is industry's first economic branch. Others in Croatia will simply understand what it means to be without industry. We're going to have a major blow in this crisis, but what to say for one River, 3. May, for the Queen who is a coat, Jadran, Crikvenica, for Gorski Kotar, for Split, for Metkovic who lives only from Mandarins, for Slavonia etc. Here, here I was just going to tell a little truth about the Rockwool so urgently. What happened, they invested 85m euros. I don't see who's gonna drive them away today, so I'm saying it, but I need it, this Rockwool makes them respect everything the law requires of them, what they respected in one Paris where they work, in Muenchen, etc., etc. And finally, isn't there a problem when it comes to industry in my Buzet, in Kanfanar, in Pula, etc. I'm not going to say that this is a report, when it comes to these 86 million kunas, but for a moment I have the impression that it works on my hand system. I, you, to me, therefore what I stand for, we need an audit of a whole series of projects that are being discussed here and allocated funds. As for the IDS Club, the IDS Club will also accept this report. Where all the Turks, there's little Mujo, but there's always a clear one. The idea of the foundation, like everyone said before me, is not bad. It should be absolutely supported because it functions as, for example, the functioning of political parties, parliamentary from the budget. Only that guarantees the autonomy of parties as well as one foundation can guarantee the autonomy of associations, but why not talk to me about a trust in a different one, but also believe it, a correct way? Not that I'm here right now trying to disrupt one harmony that's being achieved among clubs, but to talk about maybe that other side of civil society that's not usually spoken of in public. We have a whole series of associations. Many came after the Homeland War. Just before someone said, a representative of the HNS Club, associations in third countries are funded, etc., Green. I argue that they make two or three times the revenues of political parties and that message, among other things, should be sent to the Croatian public and to them. But once again, the foundation is a good idea. She's still in some way, at some stage of trial work to express myself, experimenting. She needs autonomy both in performance and in finance, but clearly she needs a proper supervision, both parliamentary and auditary.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21232	Thank you. At 10.36, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21233	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Director of the Foundation with a co-worker, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So here it is to be said that it is, in fact, once again, that the foundation was founded in 2003, and its actual purpose is the development of civil society in Croatia. The programmes promote the importance of the non-profit sector, inter-resorship cooperation, civic initiatives, philanthropy, volunteering and the improvement of the overall democratic system, or the institutions of society. The vision of the foundation is actually the realization of active citizenship in the development of a modern society that seeks to establish social justice, equal opportunities for all citizens, tolerance, participation democracy, better conditions and ultimately better quality of life. Multi-annual work in the model of strengthening the ability of associations at local and regional level has been brought into practice, we can say in full scope during 2007. In 2007, the National Foundation started with professional and quality education of registered and unregistered local associations. Regional networks, such as five, with which the Foundation has signed cooperation agreements, will provide information, education and counselling services according to established criteria, ultimately free of charge for all end-users in the local community and thus strengthen capacity, their total capacity. The main achievements of the foundation in 2007 are the decentralisation of financial support, even if it is already said, but I believe it is necessary to reiterate that. Then, the establishment of a model for fostering regional development, civil society organisations and confirming ISO quality of action certificates became the first public institution in Croatia to manage the system of grant and support, in fact, civil society organisations with such certificates. It is important and also already said, I will repeat, actively working with the European Union funds. Publishing that is also important for the development of civil society, and the citizens' initiatives carried out in the first half of 2007 are particularly important because they include citizens and citizens who are in their voluntary work, knowledge or material giving in a concrete way wanted to help communities or communities in which they live. One such example is the inclusion, i.e. the inclusion of persons and their familiarity with disability and with the existing legal framework and legal system. In particular, in my town, Sibenik, similar activities are being carried out, and one example I will also quote the arrangement of old wells in the historical core of the city. It is important to point out that the Foundation is very good at implementing the measures of the national strategy to create an incentive environment for the development of civil society. So I will support the report on the work of this foundation for 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21234	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Anitcevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21235	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. Here, as you heard from our club's representative, the club will support the report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. However, this is certainly also an opportunity for us to talk about both the essence and how much our associations in general how much civil participation can be waved in today's society and today's conditions. That's first of all a question, what is the political environment? And that's what's dominant, what's ruling and what the ruling thinks. Not about associations, not about citizens' associations, but about citizens only. His place in society. Does he understand him as a subject or generally as a citizen with all the rights that he has the right to bother the authorities, ask her, criticize her, not just say something every four years in the elections, when she needs to deceive them, here's maybe what's left of that voice. That's the real question. Under these conditions, however, the new civil society is certainly growing unconstitutional and nothing will scare or stop it. It's simple because we're in a situation like this. In one situation of establishment, the tyranny of financial capital, advanced the monitoring of human relations, the persecution of values. New public surveillance mechanisms are more necessary than ever, because capitalism is more savage than ever. And it is the civil sector that is the area, the force that is about to preserve those human values that cannot and must not be monetaryized and thrown out of the market. For the invisible hand of the market decides every day, who shall prosper, who shall perish, who shall live, who shall die. The predators are obviously triumphant, so the state is proving powerless, or it doesn't want to contain it all. And that is the role of civil society that must experience a spectacular rebirth. It is a framework where they are created right in civil life, in the civil sector, and new social movements are created and developed. That's what the government needs to know. If the government doesn't know that, then she's had a fight with reality. This confirms so far the unaffirmed roles and structures that will emerge with us only on the social scene, with their demands, with their voice. Namely, Croatia is coming out of silence. It must be understood simply by this authority. And don't see anything observant about it. And even when it's being criticized. So, as the government loves it, almost every government likes to create atomized individuals. For God's sake, glorifying man's freedom. However, these isolated individuals were then left alone to face a large and economic, administrative and legal order, and there they are powerless. And there's the role of the civil sector. Today the real individual in these conditions, almost light years away from the values that have been declared in the French Revolution. But what is the task of civil society is just restoring the strength of an individual and his power and the power to join. However, I repeat that the environment in which the civil sector is taking place is very important. The government must learn to endure that freedom, if not to support it. However, what is happening in Croatia recently, recently, yesterday, the day before yesterday, these last days, and occasionally over and over again. It's something that we here would violate the duty of our speeches and reactions if we didn't. It's about defending democracy, it's about defending fundamental human rights. I can't send police forces to young men and girls. It can't be done by the government, it can't be done by the government. First of all, he's doing his own reputation, then he's doing the elemental freedoms and the rights of man and citizen. I cannot fear others to feed and encourage the government. What we have had the opportunity to see and hear and about what is going on here is almost world media, something that is causing serious concern. Namely, Face Group "Step your belt, gang thief", which has just invited citizens to protest 5. The 12th in the main squares in Zagreb, Rijeka, Pula, Zadar, has caused obvious unrest in the ruling circles resulting in the arrests of young people, i.e. by bringing them in. So just yesterday, the day before yesterday, young Ivana Loko, who is the local co-ordinator of the protest rally in Zadar, police detained her while last week in the city square she was putting posters for the protest. Although the protest was, she wanted to explain to the officers who came to bring her in that the meeting had been reported neatly and there was no reason. However, she had to go with them. Later, of course, when the matter broke out in public then the justification was that she was not brought in, that it was not even an informed conversation but, I quote, "an equal conversation on certain aspects of the protest without any repressive elements". So this today has the name of such detention of freedom, they have the name of an equal conversation on certain aspects of the protest. These are serious things to talk about here, to react and to protest because this power that is safe in itself, which is certain of what it does, does not bring young people in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21236	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21237	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague put out a whole series of incorrect allegations. I'll quote a few. Can't rule over young men and girls sending police forces. Perhaps a colleague followed the news in Thailand rather than Croatia. The Croatian police don't send any force on any young men, on any girls. He enforces the law in case a fascist symbol appears. And another false truth. The lady from Zadar has not been detained, please read the Internet and the other truth. You know, colleagues, everyone has the right to their own truth. And you have it on you, I respect it. But believe me, the police also have the right to their truth when they say that a young lady has entered the police station herself to obtain permission for a meeting they plan to hold. So, don't misinformed the Croatian public, there's plenty of such false information. Let us respect each other's right to the truth. Your truth wasn't true today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21238	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21239	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Let's start by asking what civil society is. It's a space between family, government and market. And not only are civil society associations registered but the informal gathering of citizens on some issue is the civil sector. Let us remember 1996 and that big gathering in Zagreb in Ban Jelačić Square, a protest against the confiscation of the concession Radio 101, all organised in one day, from about 9 a.m. until the evening of the big protest event. There was no time to start a defense association called Radio 101, to register it and start operating. Citizens are therefore informally joined around a goal. At that time, the goal was to remain Radio 101 and another equally important goal to stop the silence of those who dared speak publicly against any move by the current government, as the move at the time was an attempt to abolish the 101st concession. The protest was a success, despite the fact that the then president of the Republic had already clearly been sick, asking the interior minister to disable the protest. The protest was still held and he won success, Radio 101 remained. And that example actually shows us how important civil society is and when it is not formally organised. The attitude towards civil society cannot only be assessed through this national foundation report. It should also be observed through the government's relationship to and such informal associations of citizens. So how much is created is one stimulating environment for the civil sector and how much is the repression applied to it, or if it is not desirable for the government. At the time of those first ten years of HDZ rule, the attitude towards the civil sector was not special. The late President Tudjman called them the devils green and yellow, enemies of Croatia and Croatia, sold to souls, Januaryes, etc. Unfortunately, we must conclude that even in the last five years since HDZ's return to power, this relationship has not changed significantly. That's the example we've had for the last few days. Technology progresses, people connect faster and simpler than it was in 1996, the role of the Internet here today is irreplaceable. And now let's see what's going on. When an informal group is formed that does not like President Sanader because such a goal is to bring people together, 5,000 people who do not love President Sanader are followed by repression. I don't see any reason for such repression because I don't really see why we would love Prime Minister Sanader. They live worse and worse, announced wage freeze, introduction of new taxes like this for cigarettes, new contributions for pensioners, prices for all products, inflation is growing. Why would they love Prime Minister Sanader? Any reason? Not a single one. So when they say it publicly, and it makes sense that they say it because they speak in their own interest, then there's the repression. They are called on for informed talks, or as my colleague Ingrid said, a new police formulation for equal talks. Someone is invited to the police station to speak to him equally. The excuse is to disrupt public order and peace, to disturb the public. But I don't see that the public is upset, I'm just the opposite. I can see that a large number of people with the enthusiasm to approach that group that doesn't like Sanader. No one here is upset, except maybe Prime Minister Sanader, because they don't like him. But that's still his problem. It can't be that Prime Minister Sanader's upset about it can't be a guide to the behavior of the repressive organs towards those who don't love him. And who, imagine more, dares publicly and say so. What's the effect? The consequence is that fear enters the citizens. They take off these blogs, they take off those portals, they delete their posts. Why? They're upset by the state's action, by the action of the state's repressive apparatus, completely unnecessary. It's completely incomprehensible. And we as a state, or you as a government, show what your relationship to civil society is really like. It's not the attitude towards civil society that you wrote here just sharing money, different decisions, so it's, and it's, but it seems far more important to me than what the environment is, it's the environment. Whether it's stimulating or not. Whether it is an invitation to the civil sector to report, to engage in a debate or to intimidate the civil sector. I'm afraid we're currently witnessing this other one. And it will not be beneficial to the development of civil society. This is certainly a major setback compared to the short four-year period from 2000 to 2004. When citizens were organised, they publicly voiced their opinions and even threatened to rip out the authorities when they collected chestnuts, when they organised with the support of politics on the Split coast, when they held fire talks there. The government didn't react then. She didn't react. She allowed such protests, allowed lies, allowed meals, insulted, against herself. Why? Well, because she had a very different attitude towards the civil sector. Even when he was not only a civil sector, when he was politically instrumentalised and politically organised by a political party. Well, that kind of attitude towards civil society, not like that, we can't even dream of what it was like in those four years, but a little better than it is today, we have the right to expect on behalf of those citizens. We have a right to expect it. And here, from this place in this House, words of encouragement should come to all those bloggers, for all those people who are involved in the Internet, in this public debate about whether or not Prime Minister Sanader should be loved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21240	Thank you. Two corrections to an incorrect quote. First Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Stazic incorrectly states that the facebook is an informal association. And we know that citizens know that it's a very formal association and a forum of young SDPs that does it and whose fingers are probably flooded by a lot of clicks there. A similar situation as was a civil association or as an informal association to monitor elections based on Iblero Square and SDP finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21242	Second correction, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21243	Thank you very much. There were ten allegations incorrectly, so I'll try the red signal. First. He says, "HDZ's government is conducting a repression, so it can be seen from the news."I read, the Internet is quite the opposite news, that it was not about repression, that it was about pranks, that it was about directing, that it was about one political group that insinuated it all. Well, I don't know who to trust, Mr. Stazic or this news. I don't think such untrues should be uncritical. They don't like Sanader for 5,000 people, and that's why he's doing the repression. That's not true. Prime Minister Sanader is very pleased when he is not loved by 5,000 people, because it means that 4 million 426 thousand and 850 love him, hence the most successful politician because they didn't give you the signature on those 5 grand, so I don't see why he would be nervous. In fact, only 5 grand if he doesn't like you as a politician, that's an excellent sign for the upcoming election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21244	Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21245	You are talking about public harassment, so it is certain that the citizens are upset because "Let's start Croatia" turned into a frozen Croatia, and the Croatian dream is slowly turning into a Croatian sea. And when someone wants to say it, it's now imputed to be a youth of the SDP, and then the government gets upset because it's being talked about. And let's also remember Minister Kirin, the Minister of the Interior who said his words too, because he said so graciously what he must have heard at home, i.e. at the political house, "be careful what we do to them then", that's what he said publicly. So, when, there's a little people, the mole joked,... And so, it was then, that time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those were his words, "Be careful what we do to them then.". And it's now this intimidation, it's attributed to the youth of the SDP, so it's not just the youth of the SDP that is aware, in general the young are very, very well aware, so you have to count on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21246	Replicate response, agent Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21247	You mention the youth of the SDP and say she's not the organizer of this. As far as I've seen on that facebook, some 60 thousand citizens have registered for this gathering so far, the SDP would be overjoyed if it had a mole numbering 60 thousand members. We don't, it's not like it's a youth of the SDP, it's a citizen. That's them and not everyone, of course, is just those on the facebook, who have access to the Internet, who aren't afraid to show their opinion. Those who fear, those who don't dare say that, who are afraid of being invited to an informed conversation, equal conversations with the police, at the police station, are far more.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21248	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21249	So we're talking about really important topics, and it seems to me that right now, these answers to the replicas and so on and asking the question of correcting the incorrect quotes were seeing what's actually scary here, and that's that it's still a political background. This is where you're looking. Yeah, yeah. [[That's what we're saying.]] This is where he deals with people because of political belongings. You're not talking about the problem, you're saying who it is, who belongs to which party? Except it's rude, it's in conflict with some of our laws. So what does it have to do with what political beliefs, what faith, weight, weight, sex, number, gender, who writes something? Whether he's writing the truth or not or what it's about. We're going to go over who's from which party on the Internet? If that's the case, it's actually more dangerous than I thought. And as for the harassment of the public, I'm, I'm being charged with criminal charges to the State's Attorney's office for disturbing the public because I asked where did the money go in Split's bootleggery? The truth about the will of the State Attorney's Office has rejected it. But what's the message? The message is: You are afraid to ask! You must be afraid. Because anyone who asks will reach you with a long hand of someone else's. By the way, I was thinking now that I'm looking at the chairman, I was the one who picked up the line and it looks like you read me for the discussion, right? Is this a discussion or a replica? ... This was a replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I answered the line just so you know That's right, there's the secretary. [[Intruder: The debate is this.]] This was a replica, so you can call me for discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21250	It was a replica. Did you get it? [[/Intruder: This was a replica. I've answered neatly there's a man who'll confirm it to you.]] Then why aren't you watching the secretaries? You thought, don't think, but check it out, yeah. [[I was thinking that...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21251	For the sake of time, for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21252	It's the secretary's fault. It was a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21253	Is it a discussion now?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21254	Now it's a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21255	I would like to warmly welcome you to the esteemed Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed representatives of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, fellow Members and colleagues. I personally accept this, this report, and I think it should be accepted because it's good. Indeed, we are the principles of an important topic and this topic concerns the space of democratic freedoms in Croatia, which is certainly one of the most sensitive terrains, and here it looks like from what is happening and the most recent areas in Croatia. I'd just say a few words here, and if I can afford to say so, I don't know how to call myself a member of a coloquial online community or a blogging community because I'm a blogger like many of them here amongst the MPs and I'd like them to have something more to do with what's more. I am convinced that the Internet, that internet portals have expanded the real space of democracy everywhere in the world and so on in Croatia to spread it. Information has become more accessible, communication has gained quality but also the confrontation of very different opinions. And that is why I think what is happening and yet we are talking about civil society that is happening in Croatia these days is not good for Croatia. It's not good. We can talk here because we belong to different political options. One way or another, try to justify this or that, but my dear friends, my colleagues, this has the aroma, the taste, the smell of attack, the attack on the Internet community. We've already had that on different shows. I think of a popular show that was on Croatian TV where some candidates face each other. One based his attacks on the Internet. That would be best, it would be best if he was banned and abolished because there's a lot of writing in there. See, that's exactly why I think we're asking some basic questions here. Who does that protect the state from this way? Who are the guards of the state? Who are the guardians of the state's interest? Who are the guardians of democracy? Or why democracy exists? If we call on that demos... Well, the rule of the people and so on would have turned out to be because of the people, because of the citizens in our case. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not because of some people who should look after those citizens so they don't stray. I'm not saying here that it's clear to be the last one alone and I believe we all think the same thing that would propagate any kind of don't give God a profissistic or right-wing idea. I'm a convinced left-handed man and I'm the last one to agree to this, but let's not hide behind the slide defense floor, such phenomena by suspending a certain kind of freedom and reaching free communication on the Internet that exists in the world. I listened to you this morning to our Prime Minister on that morning show at 8:00 on the first Radio Zagreb programme where he also said in defense the fight against any kind of promotion, I don't know, totalitarian, fascist and so on, the symbols that can't be with the symbols of fascism, that there can be no word about anything but naked propaganda. So there can't even be sarcasm, there can't be satire, there can't be none of it. I would direct him to see the movie Charlie Chaplin "The Great Dictator". It's a great movie. In my opinion, my personal favorite director, the biggest and here's to surprise perhaps many and deepest. It's the biggest criticism of fascism that ever appeared in the seventh art of me. And it was recorded during the time, just to remind you just to strengthen fascism. He needs to set it up when he shows up. So imagine someone thinking of accusing Charlie Chaplin that he's propagating fascism because he's walking there with Mussolini, Hitler and so on. I mean, it's possible for Mr. Prime Minister, here if he's not here, but it's possible he's satiating on these topics and with those symbols. And I argue that what is happening around Facebook is counterproductive to Croatia, to its image in the world and in some way to strengthen fear in Croatia that there is a hypertrophy of those who would like to suspend exactly what is the essence of civil society, and that is the individual's freedom to organize and when considered endangered by the state of repressive apparatus, because if the state appears as some kind of new age or I don't know of a divinity that is not on the other hand, but it's very foreign,... You can't take him by the head or by the tail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the institutions that are following you, who are punishing you, who are not punishing you, who are scaring you, enough to bring you in, you're talking about young people who are begging to come here, over there, so do you know what it means to someone from 17, 18, 20 years just to talk to him from the position of members of the repression service. I think it's bad, it's counterproductive, even if you want political authority in Croatia right now, and it's getting more and more instantaneous as it comes to these methods. So I'm even surprised the genes came up with that kind of reaction to this situation. I would even have to say that as a member of the opposition to rejoice. Look at the way things work. Well, that goes hand in hand, but I'm not looking forward to it because they're deeply questioning some of the fundamental values of this society, all of us. Will someone tomorrow ask my child as Mr. Markovanovic asks who wrote it at school when he was answering math and where your dad's strangers? These questions are dangerous. They're dangerous, I assure you, no matter how productive it seems to you for the very short term, I would say I don't think the suicide goals of those who think it will provide them with anything other than the faster they leave the authorities' positions and I think and call on all the members of the Internet, blogging and I don't know which communities, regardless of their political beliefs that they're not giving.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21256	I think we're a little too far away from the subject, that we've spread it a little too far. It's my fault. So now let's give the bar and through these replicas or incorrect allegations that we are getting as close as possible to the debate on the report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2007. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21257	Well, there he is, my colleague, insists the police are scaring the poor young men there. Well, clearly, based on one example from Dubrovnik. As far as I know, this poor young man according to the press, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, Congratulations, yes, indeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21258	Replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21259	You see, colleague Jurjevic, when this young man, who now wants to be blacked out from some newspaper articles, is not known what and whose, called for an informed conversation because someone in his writing has posted this cartoon by Prime Minister Sanader. I thought the police made an unintentional mistake. Such mistakes happen, and they will happen, and they shouldn't be made by a bogeyman. But when Prime Minister Sanader found an excuse to act, that kind of police action, then I was worried. Then I'm convinced it's not about any police error or misreading the law. Well, it's clear that you're absolutely right that some appearance of Nazi symbols should be looked at in context, is that in the context of satire. Because then what will the police do? Someone will publish a historical study, a historical paper on the period of Nazism, there will publish a cowardly cross to see what he looked like, and the police will go to arrest him because, behold, he makes fascist symbols available to the public. Well, of course it's a stupid interpretation of the law. But it could be a police mistake and I expected Prime Minister Sanader to say sorry, the police made a mistake. We will try to apply the future law in the spirit of the law, not just by letter, and everything will be fine. But when Prime Minister Sanader claims it's okay and will continue to act like that, then the thing stops being... Then the thing gets much, much more serious. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21260	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21261	Well, that's why I think it's important that it's serious and without, if it's possible without great passion, but with deep seriousness I'm talking about this subject and Mr. Chairman, I think it fits very well, no matter what the report for 2007, but it's also about civil society. Here's the fate of this individual who, in this way, can't realize this at all that there, that one representative is declaring a young man Al Capone I don't know what. It's even, as much as it can break into a man's bones, it's not the most important thing, it's the problem. What is important is what my colleague Stazic has now said, which many speak of in Croatia. What matters is what kind of atmosphere is created, and, you know, violence is different. Someone says that's how it prevents violence. It can be violence by the state, let's not forget it, it's the worst violence there is because it's the most organized, the strongest and the only one behind it has the power and the only one has the right. That later in history will prove that they were wrong and right, so my people, by various laws, are the most disgusting things made in the history of the human race, which we are today ashamed of as part of human civilization. So anything can be done on behalf of the godless interests of the state. That is why civil society should be defended, even from the tree and above all, if it acts aggressively towards the individual because it does not have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21262	Next replica, Vice-President Ingird Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21263	Well, my colleague Jurjevic, it is clear that this affair is not about, in fact, about one satire, and that it is not about any concern of the state that is due to the emphasis of some Nazi features, because in 2003, in the novel, we were just proposing a criminal act of excelling fascist and other totalitarian systems, HDZ then rejected it as an opposition, so in 2004, as an opposition, we proposed the same thing, and then HDZ refused it. But you see, in Zadar wearing Ustasha uniform is considered a common suit, almost daily. It is still used on such a small occasion and no one ever bothers them. This government pays 27 thousand domber pensions and members of Ustasha troops, 27 thousand, and sees nothing observable or worth mentioning at all. And when you talk about how power is and worst, danger is national violence. But what is for power and should be clear, that it is with its false security that the government seeks to scare, frighten others, and encourage itself. But people, that's what the problem is now for hair, which is no longer to be intimidated, they don't want to be in a hostage crisis anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21264	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21265	Since it's been said a lot on this subject, I wouldn't be much longer, I would only appeal to all of us, and I think we'll all get the brains and the strength to pass laws, laws that will be precise. Which will also be precise in the context of this very sensitive problem so that it will not be as stretchy as the gum chewer so that it can be applied like this, and so on, and so on, and living both right and center, and ours, and theirs or theirs I don't know who.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21266	And Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21267	You pointed out several times how counterproductive everything that happened with Facebook where it actually tried as it used to yell stop Reuters, stop Facebook. I hope that at least something productive will come out of all of this, and that the same zealous state authorities will call on the conversation on an equal basis for a number of group makers who celebrate the constitution and all those in the stadiums to yell "Serbs on willows" and "Kill, killing Serbs".
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21268	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21269	Now you're talking about the equality of citizens in front of the law. The normal thing that is the foundation of everything and the normal thing that the government as far as it's concerned or the laws, must...... It's a theme. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The theme is that it's not a topic, because we've put my dear, dear gentlemen all together in charge of this power that led us to this that we need to talk here. You know, it would be unforgivable if we didn't talk about this today in the Parliament. Unforgivable. I'm one of those guys who'd ask for other ways to talk then, but let's talk. The best thing to do is to stop us from speaking here in the Parliament or it's not a subject, but the topic is that it's raining today. This is the topic. This is the topic we need to discuss. Forget all political... if we don't solve this issue, we won't solve anything. We're not gonna solve anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21270	There's some order, some rules fellow Jurevic. I don't mind opening up and discussing this subject, but it should be put in one procedural way, you can't open a debate about anything once. That's not how it works. ... Because to prepare for such a debate, one documentedly valid basis, a template, can then, that everyone can evenly debate in this debate, not turn into political bickering. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Answer now, there are now allegations and claims that the government supports police arrests, arrests, etc. That's not true. I know it's not true that Prime Minister Sanader is neither encouraging nor taking it and saying it's against him. I have information that today and made a statement earlier, that the statement has already been made, that Prime Minister Sanader is opposed to any police arrest, the arrest of any activists in all these cases, and that responsibility is sought, to investigate the police's responsibility for this act. And then let's not implode ahead and prejudge and put the prime minister's responsibility on the scale as if he encouraged or ordered or ordered the police to bring in the informed conversations of those on these Facebooks. ... Not after a reaction from foreign media counterpart Anticevic, it is a completely autonomous reaction by Prime Minister Sanader. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And a 5-minute debate, the SDP club, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21271	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, here I am in the end to recapture. We support the National Foundation for Civil Society Development Report, and we think it's a beacon that some things in this country need to work and how it should work. However, the fact that civil society has played a significant role in the development of democracy, in the development of the economy, in the development of the civil sector and in the development of all that Croatia today makes better than it is. However, we also express concern that the state is not using this instrument of civil society enough, and that is something that will have to be worked on in the future if we want to be more competitive and better and strive for European integration as an equal rather than as a lateral element. But I must also say that Facebook, My space and all forms of Internet communication is also civil society. It's about expressing civil freedoms at a time when people, when children, when citizenship slowly slow down and I won't say that they're losing confidence, but it's losing confidence and all relevant statistics show in the standard media because of their marketing orientation, because of their orientation by sensations, and not by real information. And this is one way these citizens develop civil society, as they convey both good and bad information by communicating with each other, and this is how they are their own medium. And Facebook and MySpace and Youtube, it's all civil society, and that's not the issue that matters. It has been mentioned and rested here that the Youth Forum has collected 60,000 signatures. Well, I wish the Youth Forum had, as president, 60,000 members. No, we have six thousand members who are high-quality and well-organized in my court. But I would also like the HDZ youth who has 40,000 members to have managed to raise 40,000 signatures to support the prime minister. Unfortunately, those signatures for support in the parallel group that was launched were just a little over a thousand. And it should also be kept in mind, it's the same statistics that can't be intonated. Unfortunately, we've now established this at the press conference, yesterday's case of an activist who's glued posters, doesn't contribute to the development of civil society, and everyone in this hall must be aware. Because if Reuters announces today that police are bringing in those who oppose the government, then it is not good information to foreign media, then it is not a good message sent to Europe, which is being sent to the world, and especially knowing and keeping in mind that the same world, the same Europe has reported that security has been violated in Croatia. In Croatia, trust in security has been lifted, and it is precisely in the return of this trust that it cannot serve to bring in people who are engaged in their own interest on the Internet. And that should be the government's message. And in this country, police have to fight criminals, murderers, thugs, and not children who express freedom of speech or on the Internet. Because I really don't see the reasons and I don't know who felt called in the words "bando Thief." Who felt called? Do I, if I do it again now, risk perhaps being arrested for it? And that's what's not good. That's what's not good. Not even a selective approach to the glory of Nazism. Well, of course we should deal with Nazism and fascism. And of course everyone is reasonable in this country to support it, but not in a way selective but systematic and complete. Not because of political satire, I would put it this way, processes a specific case. The first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, no matter what anyone says about him, no matter what cartoons were published in the 1990s, no one was ever arrested because of these cartoons. And that's what I'm trying to say right now and that's what we need to be worried about, because what I want to say at the end is to all those who use freedom of expression on the Internet, don't be afraid, the Internet is your medium and personal freedom is guaranteed by the Constitution. And no one can take personal freedom from the citizens of this country. And I appeal to all the institutions of the state to do their job, why? So that our international reputation, the already spoiled international reputation precisely because of the latest events, would not be affected by these events that are happening, but are connected to the Internet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21272	Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is completely incorrect that a colleague has stated online that he is being arrested in Croatia. If a colleague were a contemporary representative...... If a co-worker were a contemporary representative and were to follow the Internet, he would have seen that a statement published by President Sanader just minutes ago: "In this country no one will be arrested for words, in this country no one will be arrested because he thinks otherwise. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm ordering the minister of police to file a report on what happened." That's the truth, buddy. And you have your own Internet... [[Everyone's talking in a voice, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21274	Peace, so don't... Gentlemen...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21275	May I continue, colleagues from the SDP? Thank you very much. You have your truth, it's called Facebook. We have our truth here this time it's called public.hr, it's called even the index, they all share this news. So please inform the Croatian public truthfully. Also, if someone had been arrested for fascism, of course he was, because if he hadn't, they'd have called us why he wasn't in custody.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21276	The second amendment. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm reporting for the correction of an allegation, no matter how it can be understood. Speaking in the Croatian Parliament is also sending messages, so something that happens in society can be recognized, but what we are saying in the Croatian Parliament is also sending messages out and I think that some of the speeches here and outside can get the wrong messages out. And the next is, what I want to say is in the next. It is certainly an internal one reflection of civil society, a chance for every citizen to appear and say what he thinks. However, when a political activist appears, it is no longer civil speaking but political engagement. So... with a colleague, especially Marina Jurevic, who says let's not count, but if someone politically engaged uses public space, then it seems to me that this is no longer so much a question of civil society but political engagement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21278	Final review, Foundation Manager, Mrs. Tsvetana Plavša-Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21279	Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. In fact, I would like to thank you for the exhibitions we have heard in these almost two hours and for the support that these exhibitions have given to our annual report, but it seems to me that the debate has shown how much it has been done, how much further it needs to be done in creating a stimulating environment for the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia, which, in any case, as in any other country, is based on civic activation and on participating democracy. So I think the debate was in the spirit of everything else to be done, and a good part of it has certainly been done in these last 15 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21280	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21281	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to vote on the agenda points we discussed and concluded, so please engage to determine the quorum first. Please turn yourself on, see if there's any light on to three? Let's see how many MPs there are? A total of 96 is present, so we can decide. We move on to the Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2007. The applicant is the National Foundation for Civil Society Development and I am voting in line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: "The Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2007. a year." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? We've been informed by the technical service that there are some technical difficulties, so please vote today by raising your hands. Here I am voting on the report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2007. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I'm trying to determine that it is. ... I hear an observation that it was against the vote. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Maras. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Were you against it? So 109 votes for and 1 against this annual report has been accepted. [[You were against it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21282	We are going to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 196 The Proposer is Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, European Integration and Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections. You received the reports at the sessions. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Branko Bačić will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code with the draft Final Proposal of the Law. The maritime code is a complete systematic Croatian maritime code, which regulates almost all major public-law and property-law relations related to the sea, maritime shipping activities and maritime ships. In December 2004, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Maritime Code, and later last year it was amended and updated primarily to regulate the issue of the inclusion of all Croatian seamen in the health and pension system in the Republic of Croatia, which laid the foundation of so-called Social reform of Croatian sailors. At the time of the entry into force of this novel and the amendments and additions to the Maritime Code last year, and it entered into force on 1 January 2008, in the Croatian Health Pension System, only 800 Croatian seamen sailing in international navigation were included. In all, 11 months in the Croatian Health and Pension System, 13,000 seamen were registered, according to the social reform that was implemented by amendments and amendments to the Maritime Code. So, in just 11 months of implementation of the Maritime Code into the Croatian labour legal social system, nearly 12.5 thousand sailors were involved. And in this way, we can say that their social and health system has been resolved not only by them, but by their families, which has practically shown the very justified and large number of Croatian sailors who have been registered by then or as unemployed or who have been health and pension insurance in various ways, practically since 1 January 2008 they have been allowed to be able to normally be health and pensioners, based on contracts signed with shipowners, owners of ships on which they sail in international navigation. This amendment, proposed by the Maritime Code, came from the need in the first order of resolving the jurisdiction of Croatian courts for disputes for damages caused by the death or physical injury of the seamen on one side. The second reason is the process of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The third reason is to enable the implementation and development of a new system of management and navigation control of the Adriatic Sea, and the fourth reason is the need for increased concern for the protection of the marine environment. What is the need for this Maritime Code to be amended in the section relating to the jurisdiction of the courts? I think the provisions that address the matters of jurisdiction of Croatian courts are very important for the status of Croatian sailors sailing in international navigation. Namely, the current provisions of the Maritime Code are prescribed only in cases of exclusive jurisdiction of Croatian courts for relations with international features. In previous court practice, Croatian courts were in principle declaring themselves to be internationally competent when they decided in disputes about the compensation caused by the death or physical injuries of Croatian sailors, although the event that caused the damage was abroad, so on ships of foreign held in their territorial seas or on the high seas. In doing so, the Croatian courts called for the provisions of Article 55. The law on resolving the conflict of laws with the regulations of other countries in certain relations, under which the provision of this article in disputes outside contractual responsibility for damages exists international jurisdiction of Croatian courts when damage occurs in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, in these proceedings, our courts interpreted the concept of damage extensively in the way that the site of damage was considered a place where material and immaterial damage was not manifested, and since the seaman lives in the Republic of Croatia, it was considered a damage to the damaged appearance in the Republic of Croatia. Last year, however, on 27 February 2007. The Supreme Court declared the jurisdiction of Croatian courts for disputes outside the contractual responsibility for the damage caused by the death or physical injury of the seamen on a foreign ship. And this practice in which Croatian courts advertised to the authorities for compensation for damages to Croatian sailors was no longer possible. In order to provide the necessary legal protection for Croatian seamen in such cases, this bill prescribes the international jurisdiction of Croatian courts on the basis of the prosecutor's residence. I believe that if the Croatian Parliament clearly adopts such an amendment to the Maritime Code, we will make a significant contribution to facilitating the process of compensation to Croatian seamen who will now file claims for damages to the Croatian judiciary. The second reason for amending and supplementing the Maritime Code stems from the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. Namely, in the negotiating position, the joint negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union in Chapter 14. – Transport, the Republic of Croatia should remove all obstacles to the admission of ships to the corresponding registers in the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments to the Maritime Code further liberalised conditions for the registration of water facilities owned by citizens of the European Union and legal persons established in the Member States of the European Union. Equally, it was necessary to amend the provisions of the Maritime Code on the mandatory registration of Croatian ships and yachts and boats in the Croatian register. Therefore, for all natural and legal persons who have their seat or residence in the Republic of Croatia, there is no longer any mandatory water facilities in Croatian registers of ships, boats and yachts. The third reason for amending and supplementing the Maritime Code is the institutional and organisational arrangement of the maritime traffic control and management service. In fact, in the already mentioned and shortly mentioned negotiating position, the European Commission encourages the Republic of Croatia to rapidly establish an integrated maritime traffic control and management system in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of the relevant European Commission directives, in accordance with the recommendations of the International Maritime Organisation, and this system should be introduced and desirable in the Republic of Croatia on the Adriatic Sea until the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Otherwise, the maritime traffic control and management system is complex and technical, information, organisational and institutional system designed to monitor and organise all maritime transport in the Adriatic. The construction of a system is under way, the acquisition of radar equipment that will enable Croatian maritime authorities to control at any moment, in real time they will have a real picture of all maritime transport in the Adriatic and how it is now in the technical sense of the establishment of this system, I hope that by the end of 2010 we will be able to manage and monitor the entire maritime transport in the inner sea waters, in the territorial sea and in the protected ecological and fisheries belt. Finally, the fourth reason for the amendments to the Maritime Code is in the further and increased concern of the Republic of Croatia against the pollution of the marine environment and the implementation of possible damages in cases where pollution of the marine environment occurs. In the application of the existing provisions of the Maritime Code, namely, the need to create a legal basis for more detailed regulation of the issue of protection of the marine environment was firstly clearly identified from maritime facilities, so from ships, to investigate pollution, and to identify and sanction the perpetrators. In accordance with the International Convention on Civil Responsibility for the damage caused by the pollution of the sea, the power plant that has recently entered into force is prescribed to provide mandatory insurance for the coverage of liability for damage caused by pollution by fuelling oil for Croatian ships greater than a thousand gross tonnes and for foreign ships flying to Croatian ports. Furthermore, mandatory insurance for all ships of more than 300 gross tonnes shall be prescribed to cover the costs of the location, marking and removal of the crashes. In particular, mandatory insurance for all ships is greater than 300 gross tonnes that sail to Croatian ports and Croatian territorial seas and ZERP, which cover the costs of the location, marking and removal of the floods. In fact, we have witnessed that in recent years ships have, as a rule, been leaving a ship in Croatian territorial waters after the damage to the ship, due to the technical failure of the ship or because of an unskilled crew, because the costs of resuscitating the ship are generally higher than those of the Republic of Croatia at the recovery of the marine environment and to the prevention of such events which, as I said earlier, are often happening in the Croatian Adriatic. The damages themselves from the owners of these ships are often very difficult and almost impossible since the owners of these ships have entered their companies in remote and specific countries such as the Cayman Islands, Panama, Liberia, etc. and thus, it is almost difficult for Croatian maritime authorities to charge the costs caused by such ships sailing to the Croatian part of the Adriatic. And therefore, with this mandatory insurance that these shipmen and ships must present to Croatian maritime authorities, we are practically preventing this possibility and facilitating Croatian maritime authorities that these costs resulting from sea pollution, as a result of the hararium of a particular ship can be better charged clearly and then refunded to all those who work to protect the Adriatic. At the session of the Legislatives Committee, several amendments were made, first of all, to the nomotechnical arrangements of the amendments and additions to the Maritime Code, so I would like to say immediately that the Government accepts such amendments as have been made by the Legislative Committee. From all of this, and primarily clearly from the process of harmonising our legislation with the acquis of the European Union, we would therefore like to propose that the Parliament adopt such an urgent proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21284	Thank you. Committees, legislation, European integration? Chairman of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21285	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Captain Babic, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison at the 17th session of 27 November discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Sea submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a home working body. The opening presentation was given by a representative of the promoter who said that the Maritime Code, which was adopted in 2004, had all the more significant public-law and property-law relations related to the sea, maritime navigation and activities and maritime ships, and that it had been amended and updated in 2007 to regulate the issue of inclusion of all Croatian seamen in the health and pension system. He stressed that the proposed amendments and additions introduce a new auxiliary criterion of the international jurisdiction of Croatian courts for disputes on compensation for death, physical injury or disturbance of the health of the seamen when the prosecutor has residence in the Republic of Croatia, thus improving the legal position of Croatian sailors and their families. The amendment of the conditions for the entry of ships into the Croatian Register of Ships shall be completed by the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. It is pointed out that this proposal for a law is created and based on the establishment of a full maritime traffic surveillance and management service in accordance with Directive 2002/59 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 on the establishment of a Community maritime traffic surveillance system. The debate also expressed the view that the proposal for a law should be supported and was specifically pointed out in the provisions of Article 47 which set out that the provisions of this law are applicable to all proceedings for damages which, until the date of entry into force of this law, have not been adopted. It is also pointed out in the debate that, given the solutions offered in Article 2 of the Law, it would be good to have joint thematic session to discuss the application of applicable regulations governing coastal guard matter, i.e. to find quality solutions in a way that rationally and qualitatively divides jobs between the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the MORH and the MUP. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code in the text as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21286	I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club. Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21287	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A law that regulates maritime affairs is not called the Maritime Code by chance, instead of the usual law. It is a rich and complex matter, and it is good that when we in practice notice that something is not well solved or that has not been resolved at all, the Ministry of Resolution, Government and Parliament react quickly and in quality. This is happening right now with this proposal to amend the Maritime Code. Perhaps most importantly, and I would like to point out this in particular, by proposing these amendments, we will address the issue of judicial jurisdiction to resolve disputes for the damage caused by the death or the physical injury of our seaman on a foreign ship. Namely, the position of our Supreme Court is that, according to the current resolution of the Maritime Code, our... The damages should be sought in the land and in front of their courts from which the shipowner is for which they sail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's for our sailors and there are about two-thirds of them on foreign ships disastrously. Therefore, by proposing these amendments, we introduce the jurisdiction of our courts in these situations. And of course before that, a shipowner must have an adequate contract with our sailor and an insurance company that in such cases is obliged to compensate for the damage. I dare say this is a capital and crucial solution for our sailors on numerous foreign ships. Furthermore, what we consider important to point out in the proposal for these changes is that so far it has happened that a foreign shipowner in the event of a calvary in our sea had no commercial interest to spend his money on the extraction of that wreck and would not do so. We therefore impose these amendments on a foreign shipowner to have insurance in such cases from which we can then charge damage and the cost incurred by cleaning our sea from such wrecks or greater pollution by fuel oil. Our concern for the environment and this is what we show is our permanent task. It is also important to point out that these changes formally give the Coast Guard the right to prosecute law enforcement officers and regulations at our sea. In addition to these most important, about small but very important and necessary changes in the Maritime Code that mean a lot to the safety of our seamen on foreign ships, but also the safety of sailing to our Adriatic, we have several new articles and items that we are harmonising with European legislation that are also important, but we wanted to highlight these previously. And, of course, this proposal changes the HDZ Club's air support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21288	Thank you. For the SDP club, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21289	I would like to thank Mr Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues, fellow MPs, it is a little symbolic that we are discussing the Maritime Code three days before St. Nicole, or what in my neighborhood would you say about the patron saint of sailors and passengers and three days after returning to Croatia Captain Christ Laptal after a year and a half who spent innocently in prison in Greece. Confirming one more time that already told the story of a 7-core bread. But that symbolism is about to cease. And so the boaters hit the crisis because in the year when the ship's market was peaked, almost overnight, there was a ghastly fall. In just a few months, train fares for scattered cargo fell by as much as 95%. Although almost all of our shipmen claim that for a good start of the year they can endure another year and do not seek state intervention, it is clear that they count on it if the blackest screenplays come true. In order to further explain the depth of the crisis, it should be said that the construction of around a thousand already ordered ships has been suspended in the past few months, and as a curiosity, it is stated that in one... At the end of his life, he's waiting for about 100 ships. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I purposely used this formulation of the end of the life of the ship, leading to that verse by Tom Baby: "The ships are the same as the people.". And just a year ago, this is how the situation was described, and I quote, "Blessed 2007, there was a year of boating professions that considered the year in which they had the best business conditions in their working life, and perhaps even at all...", says economist. "Trainers enjoyed the well-being thanks to China's huge raw materials needs as well as container liners who carried finished products to the Western markets, but then began at the beginning of the year. Share prices have begun to drop, ship orders have begun to cancel, boat space demand is decreasing and the offer has increased by 60% over the last three years." But here's what's good, if the shipers were the first to feel the crisis, they'd be the first to feel the recovery. To be a little cynical, this crisis has not hit some of our shipmen such as Croatia's line, Sibenik navigation, Dalmatian sailing and others, because apparently the conversion in Croatian was more devastating than this global crisis, so the boaters "in bananas" ended a long time ago. When we want to describe Croatia and its relationship to the sea, we usually use the following formulations as mandatory characters. Croatia has, according to its natural resources, not sufficiently valorised the comparative advantages of the sea, a highly maritime country. Croatia has also developed in a world of recognised maritime education. Unfortunately, lately, with the reduced interest of our youth in maritime occupation. For example, Minister Kalmeta said last year that we are missing about 2,000 maritime officers. Croatian sailors, some 32,000 of whom only 6 thousand sail on Croatian ships in the world are recognised by their maritime skills and education. And now a little bit about the amendments and the code. This code was amended and updated in July last year to edit the issues, including all Croatian sailors in the health and pension system. But looking at the Internet, by forums, what sailors write about this solution I saw great discontent with the current solution, and they call it part of even absurd. Also, there is still no solution to the question of the benefits of the internship, and the issue needs to be resolved as quickly as possible, which is what the marine union has been asking for for for for 10 and 11 years. I remind the Ministry of the Sea supports the introduction of a certified internship for all Croatian sailors and 13. 2nd of this year, it announced that, during the second quarter of this year, amendments to the Maritime Code and the Law on Interrogation with increased duration will be submitted to the parliamentary procedure and, if necessary, amendments to the sublaws of this ministry. The ministry was even more optimistic when it signed the National collective contract for Croatian seamen in international navigation. Amendments to the Maritime Code, which will also allow for the return of the benefits of a maritime training, were announced for March 2008. As a reason for this year's changes and additions, the promoter cited the first need for better regulation of Croatian courts' jurisdiction for damages to Croatian sailors on foreign ships. As this provision refers to the protection of our sailors, the opportunity also focuses on two other things that we cannot regulate by this law, but still must remind us of everything that the seamen are experiencing. One thing is to criminalize sailors. Currently, more than 300 sailors are imprisoned in prisons of the world, he pointed out yesterday and the Federation of Marines of Croatia and encouraged the adoption of a resolution containing rules on fair treatment with sailors around the world. Another situation is when a seaman is held captive by pirates, which has been an even more pronounced problem lately. It has now begun to be called the eighth crust on the bread of the seamen. It should be said that more than 50% of the pirate attacks are waste of Adele Bay, and even though this is known, it is still not done enough to prevent pirates. This of course does not go to the Croatian government, this is going to be a global situation. Of course, this is not about the last two cases, it's not about getting compensation, it's about fighting for the naked life and for the freedom of the seamen. And here's the bigger problem, and it's a public interest in the problem. We therefore support these changes in order to make it easier for the seamen to conclude a fair trial before Croatian courts and not for the courts of some of us, as we like to call them in the jargon "banana republic". But it still has to be said, and there's still no such thing as an unfettered internship. There is no change to what you are unhappy with in the pension and health system either. The second part of the amendment concerns liberalising the entry of foreign ships from EU countries into the register of ships in Croatia. This means that we can simplify the future for concessions on domestic railways to be able to compete with foreigners. Logic says that increasing competition can also increase the quality of passenger shipping to the satisfaction of islanders and their guests. Logic also says that a domestic shipman and we primarily think of Jadrolini as competitive to the sides, that it should be invested in ferry and fleet restoration. And contrary to being a logical newspaper, they say that next year they'll be saving themselves on the islands and on the renewal of the fleet. Then what's going on? Before these provisions enter into force, we will open concessions for 10 years, so the foreigners won't compete with our locals for another 10 years, which is good. But we're not going to invest enough in homework so that in the end, only the islanders will go badly. The domestics will receive concessions with an unrenewed fleet. The foreigners will register and will not be able to drive, and the islanders will ride with some foreign and unrenewed ships. But we hope that's not the scenario. The third part of the amendments concerns the rapid establishment of a complete maritime traffic control and management system and the establishment of a service of the same name. What's interesting is that service will monitor maritime traffic in ZERP. And since we know that ZERP is very pleased to mention clearly that we remember the government of HSS that they spoke before the election. The fourth part of the amendments more specifically addresses the issue of protection of the marine environment from maritime facilities, pollution research and some technical and legal changes. In the draft amending the law, it is possible to empower certain inspection tasks and officials of the Coast Guard, which we in the SDP think has not yet produced the necessary results. That, instead of uniting certain surveillance services, the situation must be further complicated so that the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee has unanimously decided to hold a thematic session together with the Coast Guard Defence Committee. Finally, as part of legal folklore, it should already be noted that under the cover of compliance with the provisions of the Criminal Law, fines for acts of pollution of the marine environment have increased. We hope, however, that this is not because of the poor state of charge of the budget, but because of the increased environmental awareness of the government. And to conclude the SDP club supports these changes, but we do not think they are enough. For this reason, we will propose a conclusion that obliges the government to propose legal solutions to the Assembly within 2 months that will also regulate the benefits of the maritime work experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21290	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21291	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law that is before us contains several important amendments which, in the opinion of the Proposer, should be introduced into the current text of the Maritime Code to bring the acquis into line with the acquis of the European Union or the international contracts that the Republic of Croatia is a member of. And as a result of its modernisation or correction of certain technical details. The amendment I wish to talk about is totaling only two articles but are important, referred to Articles 37 and 47. It is an issue of the international jurisdiction of Croatian courts for the trial in disputes over the damage caused by deaths, physical injuries or health disturbances during or in connection with the work on board. The proposed provisions address a burning issue that is truly and potentially dependent on the fate of some 30,000 Croatian sailors as well as their families. So what's this about? It is known that Croatian sailors work on ships of all world flags and large majority in international navigation. It is also known that in the modern conditions of shipping operations due to the increasing speedy operation and the increasing pressure of the crew’s work and work tasks on board is very easily affected and the injuries are severe, often fatal. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that the ship is normally owned by foreign so-called "foreign". Single Sheap Company i.e. companies owned by only one ship registered in some flag states such as Liberia, St. Vincent and... And so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then the ship in management or under the management of another foreign company is also registered in one of those countries sometimes leased by a third foreign company. While the contract of employment was concluded with the fourth foreign company. All of these are already in themselves complicated and make it difficult for the way of legal protection in the event of an injury or death of crew members. In addition, it should be borne in mind that injury can occur in virtually any and even the most distant corner of the world including the open sea. If an injury or death occurs on board Croatian sailors and their families sometimes encounter reluctant and often discriminatory views of shipowners and their insurance undertakings where sickness benefits are paid unsettledly or in no way but the payment of contractual fees or compensations conditional upon the conclusion of final agreements in amounts significantly less than the amounts that would be borne by the seamen or families on the basis of the relevant criteria. As a result of all of this, the injured sailor or members of the family of the deceased seafarer, who does not have a different path than the protection of his rights to seek before the court. Given the highly expressed international character of such disputes, the first question raised in each issue is the question of the international jurisdiction of the court before which the proceedings were brought. Croatian trade courts, both those of the first degree and the High Court of Commerce, and courts whose jurisdiction is the trial in disputes for damages caused by the death or physical injury of the seamen for years have systematically and carefully accepted international jurisdiction by calling, inter alia, on Article 53(1) of the Treaty on European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on behalf of the European Union, on behalf of the European Union, on behalf of the European Union, on behalf of the European Union, on behalf of the European Union, on behalf of the European Union, and on behalf of the European Union, on behalf of the European Union, on behalf of the European Union, and on behalf of the European Union, and on behalf of the European Union, The law on resolving the conflict of laws with the regulations of other countries in certain relations that prescribes that the international jurisdiction of the Croatian court in disputes outside contractual responsibility for damages exists, including if the damage occurred on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Commercial courts interpreted the provision in a way that, even in cases of injury or death outside Croatia, damages occurred in the Republic of Croatia. Since the adverse consequences, i.e. the property implications of injury, i.e. death on board, are, for example, loss of earnings or loss of restraint are suffered in the Republic of Croatia as a country where the seafarer, or his family, lives. However, such a practice has been interrupted by a decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in February 2007 in which that court took the view that damage would take place within the meaning of Article 53(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the resolution of the conflict of laws involves exclusively harming the body, i.e. damage to health, and not the property-legal consequences of these events. The Supreme Court concludes, in turn, that under the jurisdiction of Article 53. The law on resolving the conflict of laws does not have the jurisdiction of the Croatian court in a situation where a Croatian seaman resident in Croatia is injured abroad on a flag-side ship. In the Supreme Court's position, Croatian sailors, or their families, were brought into an unspeakable position for reasons of legal protection in the event of injury, disease or death, could no longer be addressed to the Croatian court, but can only be sued in the state of the ship's headquarters or other indictees, or in a country where injury or death occurred. What kind of countries all can be concerned about and what level of availability or quality of legal protection, it was already in advance. This means that one category of Croatian population has been deprived of the possibility of available and reliable legal protection at times when protection is most needed, i.e. when the injuries of professional illness or death go through a personal trauma, and they are left without a source of existence. In the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, this issue seeks to address the introduction of explicit legal provisions which would be entered into the Maritime Code as Article 988a, which stipulates that in disputes for damages, violations of the health or death of a member of the crew, Croatian courts have jurisdiction if they are the residence of prosecutors in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, regardless of whether a certain sailor or a family of a deceased seafarer is present in the capacity of the prosecutor, and no matter where injury or death occurred, the damages will have the opportunity to bring their property rights in Croatia into motion as a country of their residence. I think this issue is being resolved in a better way than it has ever been resolved because the availability of legal protection against domestic courts will no longer depend on a favourable interpretation of a general rule by the courts, but will be based on an explicit and unequivocal legal provision relating to this particular issue. I think this is the best way to prove our concern for the interests of Croatian sailors and their families. Given that the Supreme Court's decision of February 2007 has already resulted in a number of court disputes being rejected due to a lack of jurisdiction in order to remove to a maximum extent negative after such a situation, the provision of Article 47 of the proposed law under which the rule of international jurisdiction of Croatian courts applies to all proceedings pending at the time of the law's entry into force, I will therefore support this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21292	Thank you. And before we move on to an individual debate, we have two notices. The tenth session of the Education, Science and Culture Committee of the Croatian Parliament will be held today on 3 December at 13:30 in the hall "Stepan Radić 133". The second notice, the 18th session of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, will be held on Wednesday 3 December at 13:30 at the Josipa Jelačić Hall, so I would like to ask the members to respond nicely. And now we continue the debate, distinguished representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The maritime law adopted at the end of 2004, it was for the first time that it was presented in one place a full and systematic legislature to which all the more significant public-legal property-legal relations related to the sea, navigation activities and maritime ships were arranged. The aim of the adoption of the Maritime Law was to launch a wide change in maritime law whose task is to equalise maritime law with developed maritime countries so as to enable Croatian shipmen to compete on the world maritime market, restore the fleet and return ships under our flag. The amendments and additions to this law in 2007 aimed to complete this process in a way that regulates the basic issues of the shipowner's business on the one hand and includes all Croatian seamen in a single tax and pension system appropriate to the specificities of maritime calling and occupation. What may best be the results of the proposals for these amendments and additions to the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links to the Data of the Tax Administration. Only some 2,000 of them, therefore, were reported to the pension, health and tax system of the Republic of Croatia. And if that number, as the rapporteurs tell us today is over 12,000, then I think we're on the right track with these amendments and amendments to the law so far. Given that today is almost 2/3 of our sailors sailing on foreign ships, that fact should make us change the situation by improving both the laws and conditions for our sailors and strengthening our fleet and returning ships under the Croatian flag. These changes and additions that we have received are also going in this direction and that the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is being changed on the issue of jurisdiction to resolve disputes for damages caused by the death or physical injury of the seamen. In so far's case-law, Croatian courts have declared themselves competent to decide in disputes over the damage caused by the death or physical injuries of Croatian sailors, calling for the provision of Article 53. Law on resolving the conflict of laws with the regulations of other countries in certain relations. Such a provision allowed seamen and their families to start the compensation procedure against a foreign shipowner in the Republic of Croatia even though a harmful event occurred abroad, as a rule, on a ship side of the flag that was in foreign territorial waters or on the open sea at the time of the accident. By decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia as of 27 February 2007, that Croatian courts are incompetent, as a result of such a decision, the inability of Croatian sailors and their families to initiate compensation proceedings against foreign companies as in the Republic of Croatia has created a sea of problems for Croatian sailors, i.e. their families and has brought them into a very unfavourable position, and they have often found it impossible to carry out their rights. Therefore, and for a number of other reasons, it is justified to find a new procedural solution which will restore disputes about the death and bodily injuries of Croatian sailors to Croatian courts. This would be to ensure the application of minimum safety standards that accepts Croatian maritime law in the area of shipowners against seamen. The best proposed amendments to the Law of the Sea are amended as further proposed amendments change the conditions for the entry of ships and yachts into Croatian registers as they hold in the European Union that the registration of ships and yachts if they are citizens of the European Union, in the existing law are very restrictive and it is agreed that the conditions of registration should be changed. This amendment allows the entry into the Croatian registers of ships owned by citizens of the Member States of the European Union or companies established in a Member State of the European Union provided that they have a branch in the Republic of Croatia. The actual link between ships and flags shall be maintained by the prescribed obligation to operate the ship directly from the branch and through the Institute of Technical Control over the ship carrying out the recognised organisation. The amendment for enrolment in the Croatian register of ships completes the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal property of the European Union that needs to be implemented through the legal regulation. This proposal also creates the basis for the establishment of a full maritime service and for the management of maritime transport under the 2002 European Parliament and Council Directive on the establishment of surveillance from maritime transport, which will result in a reduction in the number of accidents at sea, improving the results of the search and rescue action at sea and reducing sea pollution from ships. It will also allow the mandatory exchange of data with the relevant European Union bodies. Of course, all of this takes time to train personnel and equipment supplies. In that sense, I think that these amendments and additions to the Maritime Law are progressing and I will therefore support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21294	Thank you. Dear Representative Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of exhibitors, colleagues and colleagues. The maritime code, as the applicable law of the Republic of Croatia, is a complete and systematic Croatian maritime code, which regulates all major public and property legal relations related to the sea, maritime navigation activities and maritime ships. As the representative of the exhibitors, State Secretary Branko Bačić said, after his adoption in 2004, the code was amended and completed in 2007 primarily to regulate the issue of including all Croatian seamen in the health and pension system, which laid the foundation of so-called. Social reform for seamen. Today we are discussing the final proposal of the Law amending the Maritime Code in the form of P.Z.E., more specifically the law under regular number 196 in the form of compliance with the acquiss of the European Union. The materials we have received as a basis for discussion on this bill states that the need for new amendments and additions to the Maritime Code stemmed from several important circumstances, which is the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the issue of jurisdiction to resolve disputes for damages caused by the death or physical injury to the seamen, as well as the process of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, of course, and the development of a new system of management and control of navigation of the Adriatic Sea, as well as the need for enhanced care of the marine environment. Of course, none of these four items are exclusive or less important than the others, and in practice they are very often overlapping with each other. In any event today, I would like, in the context of my debate on this final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, to say and to support the adoption of an amendment, more specifically to Article 36, in relation to the added Article 823.b. I propose that in Article 823.b in the third sentence, the words "unquestionably and irrevocably" should be replaced with the words "in the form generally accepted in maritime practice". The reason for this amendment is that by the time the International Convention on the Elimination of Depletions was adopted in Nairobi in 2007,... clubs and other insurance companies will not provide unconditional and irrevocable guarantees and are therefore proposed to prescribe a form of guarantee that is so far common in maritime practice. Here, of course, is the problem of substandardized ships in Croatian ports. The diplomatic conference, which carried out the long-awaited and developed international Convention on the Elimination of Podlins, was held in 2007 at the United Nations office in Nairobi, Kenya. International so-called The poorest conference was adopted under the auspices of the international maritime organisation, namely the International Merttitine Organization, a specialised organisation that has so successfully passed key international agreements in the field of safety at sea and prevention of maritime pollution over the past decades. It is precisely thanks to the legal achievements of the IMO, hence the international maritime organisation, that the statistical picture of maritime accidents in recent years has been greatly improved, more specifically the safety of maritime navigation has been raised to a noticeably higher level. However, there remains a clear problem of abandoned shipbeds as a source of permanent concerns and problems of coastal states such as the Republic of Croatia itself, as well as safety of maritime navigation in general. It is almost an amazing piece of information that I have found that today, in the world’s seas, nearly 1,300 ship’s wrecks appear to be helpless, many of which are not just some sad relics of maritime ventures, but a real and lasting danger of sailing. The information on the increasing number of threatening ship wrecks is, of course, a direct link to the fact that, until this Nairobi turn, there was no international convention that would systematically and entirely solve a problem that potentially opens up to key IMO documents, it seems to be of planetary importance. Already in the preamble, the Convention on the Elimination of Deforestations highlights the double danger posed by the unsecured ruins. With the threat of sea navigation... It also mentions the dangers that the maritime environment is exposed to from the floods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, the Convention highlights the need to adopt uniform international rules and procedures to ensure the rapid and effective removal of the infringements and to pay compensation for costs incurred. It may also be important to say that the definition of the submersible means a submersible or saturated ship or any part of such a ship, including any object located or on such a ship, any object which has disappeared in the sea from the ship and which has been overrun, sinked or even floated, and the ship that will soon sink or fall, or of course can reasonably expect it, even when effective measures help the ship or property have not yet been taken. I would also like to say that it is clear that in the definition of the danger that you have classified the compensation of the creators of the Convention to cover both the threats to maritime navigation and the threats to the adverse consequences of the marine environment and the coastal area or some related interests of one or more states. These related interests shall indicate the direct impact of the coastal state by subsidisation or threat. For example, maritime, coastal and port activities with a sign of coverage of fishing activities are listed. There must therefore be important sources of income for those persons because for the first time, in one international compensation convention, tourist attractions and other economic interests of that area are also mentioned. Then also the health of the coastal population and the well-being of the area, including, of course, the conservation of marine living resources, as well as coastal and underwater infrastructure. Finally, I would also like to submit another amendment, in fact it is only one nomotechnical correction in the form of amendments to Article 48, in which in order to correct the wrong call number 7 it is necessary to replace it with number 8. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21296	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21297	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Captain, colleagues and colleagues. I think this is a good, solid proposal and that this variant can be accepted. I'd like to join what my colleague Bauk was saying to consider. We'll go with that proposal, therefore, for what we would call the benefits of a seaman's training. Croatia is a maritime country. Sometimes it seems to me, it neglects, generally somehow in the social consciousness. The fact is, we lack an officer on board, the fact is it's an extremely difficult job, so if this initiative could be accepted, it would be better. I would ask the Secretary of State or Captain Babic to answer me one thing that is also related to the Maritime Code. In January 2007, the government signed the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, decided to extend concessions to 30 years. The decision individually introduces 2.5% of the variable concession fees for gross turnover in these marinas in some environments. It's kind of weird to me that it's individually regulated that somewhere, somewhere no, somewhere it's being introduced, somewhere it's not being introduced. It seems quite logical to be introduced into everything. I'd like to point out that out of those 2.5% of the city's population, less goes to the county. Here's the data for Milna, there's a loss if it doesn't apply to them, depending on the season between 500 thousand and 700 thousand kuna. Although the current Maritime Code, as far as I know, should apply to everything, and since it causes some doubt, people are asking us MPs, too, that's how they came to me. I think it would be a good idea if you gave an explanation or if it would really get into anything that would make sense to me, not that... I think such promises existed on your part, from the ministry, I think that would be good. There's only that much. I'd like to ask if you can when you say yes and answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21298	Thank you. And distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Namely, the maritime code of the Republic of Croatia, which was in force for 10 years as the first and full and systematic Croatian maritime legislature, was in fact editing the increasingly significant public-legal property-legal relations of course related to the sea. However, when a new Maritime Code and amendments and amendments have been adopted after 10 years and are complemented by it, according to the proposer, assumptions have yet to be made for the full harmonisation of our maritime legislation with the legal gains of the European Union. Namely, the definitions of basic concepts have been harmonised, and the sublaws of technical nature as explained by the applicant will carry out further compliance with European rules. Furthermore, what is important with the aspect of nautical tourism. The new Maritime Code sets out yachts as special vessels other than standard ships and boats and prohibits cabotage and thus perform charters of activity in the Republic of Croatia to vessels under a foreign flag, except in exceptional cases where this requires economic interest. In itself, the question arises and raises the question why the opportunity was not then used and the full harmonisation of our new Maritime Code with European maritime law is carried out, but we are some new solutions in this new Maritime Code as a result of the convergence of the Euro-Atlantic Union. The non-compliance of our legal system, i.e. only partial compliance with the reason why the share of the total grey economy in the Republic of Croatia is illegal use of foreign vessels of nautical tourism, etc. The black charter continues to be represented in a major procedure which causes huge and serious damage to the state budget from year to year. Although the competent ministry must point out that new regulations, and in particular by introducing wine for foreign vessels, order has been introduced in nautical tourism. The question, however, is whether it can be reached by the Black Charter. The new Maritime Code did not stipulate that the entry of a yacht or boats purchased abroad must also be accompanied by proof that a legal customs procedure has been carried out. And the question is, why is that? It would then further refer to Articles 202 to 207 of the new Code. It actually refers to the registration and erasure of boats, where the solutions to the previous text of the former Code have been accepted. In addition to the mandatory registration of the vessel Article 203(2), it is prescribed that the vessel may be entered in the vessel register if it is wholly or partly owned by a natural or legal person, a stateless person or a non-citizen of the Republic of Croatia who does not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, provided that the boat is mostly located in the sea of the Republic of Croatia. Why is this condition retained in this legal provision when it comes to the boat and not the yacht? In addition to the given argument, it does not mean that it is not supervised. In particular, if it is taken into account that according to the provisions of this Code, i.e. the desire of the owner, each vessel may be entered in the register of yachts and thus become a yacht in respect of the actual rights. As the provisions of the Maritime Code define a foreign yacht as a water object for sport and entertainment that has a foreign nationality and which is thus considered according to the regulations of the State whose nationality has, the port captains of each side of the mega yacht, authorised to carry more than 12 passengers, should in no case be treated as a passenger ship. If that is the case, it shall be considered according to the rules of its nationality. All this creates, of course, great difficulties in detecting and processing the illegal rental of foreign vessels of nautical tourism in our sea, so-called sea. "The Black Charter" with foreign mega yachts that in our part of the Adriatic are growing year after year. Namely, the grey economy, which includes the "Black Charter" and which causes huge and difficult estimated damage to the state budget year after year, depends on the method of determination between 10% and 30% of gross domestic product. The struggle with the gray economy certainly needs to be seen in a normative approach that stands out first, but sometimes, unfortunately, and as the only rule, because just by piling up a variety of laws, sublegal regulations, it won't mean much if they break down like waves on the rocks of the power of the gray economic market. And I'm going to submit one amendment, and that's on Article 190. The maritime code, which I propose to amend and read: "The registration of ships and yachts referred to in Articles 187 and 188 of the new Code, which have been purchased, or obtained abroad, cannot be carried out without applying evidence of the customs procedure carried out." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21300	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Branko Bačić, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21301	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. I also thank the clubs, as well as the respected representatives who supported in the individual debate the adoption of amendments and additions to the Maritime Code, primarily for the reasons that this amendment and the addition of the Maritime Code pursues further social security, contributes to better and better quality social security of Croatian sailors, and primarily those who sail in international navigation and even more those who sail in international navigation on ships by state-owned. In that sense, our amendment to the Maritime Code, which was in July 2007, and this today's proposal, goes therefore to make the heavy bread, as previously said, with seven crusts, easier and safer for Croatian sailors. And that their families too have significantly better social security than the times before the adoption of the Maritime Code. I must therefore say that in a certain way I am surprised that such reform, a social reform for Croatian seamen, which I said in just 12 months, not 12 months, 11 months, has already included more than 12 thousand Croatian sailors in the Croatian working social system, can be considered a failure or say that it is not best done when it comes to the social and health system of Croatian sailors. The fact that it is likely that Croatian sailors who are not satisfied with the situation will have to pay certain obligations, i.e. pension and health insurance, but it is also the fact that the Croatian Maritime Union is firmly behind this social reform. He supports it and practically this social reform was made together with Croatian sailors. The more Croatian sailors sailing in international navigation, the more they pay their obligations on the basis of pension and health insurance in the Republic of Croatia at the amounts they would pay if ships on ships such as "Jadrolinia", and the salary they would pay on ships of "Jadrolinia" several times smaller than those made in international navigation, the basis of contracts signed with Croatian or foreign boaters. Therefore, at the moment we proposed this social reform for the seamen last year, we said that we would be pleased if the entire corps of Croatian seamen sailing in international navigation, and according to the maritime unions, there are about 26 thousand of them involved in the work and social system of the Republic of Croatia in the next 3 to 4 years. So in the first year, and not yet full, we included almost 50% of Croatian sailors. So, I believe that this reform has certainly won its success. And we will continue to clearly improve the text of the law if we see the shortcomings of this reform in the implementation over the next year. As for the observations or suggestions that the Government be in charge, therefore the amendment proposed to be in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to deliver to the Croatian Parliament in the next 60 days for the adoption of the text of the law that would introduce an unfettered training for seamen. I must say, in such a text, the Government cannot accept this amendment. For what? Because it has already been announced through an amendment to the Maritime Code, which has already been announced here on your benches today, and already in the text are the provisions which define the introduction of an unfettered work experience. Through the procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the course of amending and supplementing the amendments, or proposing amendments to the Maritime Code, it has been established that the resolution of the benefits of the work experience through this law, or the Maritime Code, would cover only one segment of Croatian seamen and those seafaring in international navigation, because their legal status in the Republic of Croatia is not identical to those on board ships in national navigation, so we will be able to amend the law that will introduce the benefits of the Benefied Work Stall through the Insurance Interval Act with the increased duration they use and that applies to all Croatian citizens who have the right to an unfetteed working period. So, we gave up because it would lead to legal uncertainty, we gave up the solution and the introduction of the benefits of a work experience through the Maritime Code, and that change along with the Ministry of Economy will be regulated through the Insurance Statutory Act with an increase in duration. When it comes to the decriminalisation of sailors, the ministry will also hold a roundtable in January 2009 along with the Maritime Union and Croatian lawyers who are experts in the maritime law. And on that round table, we will invite representatives of the International Maritime Organisation and the International Association of Maritime Unions to discuss the protection of Croatian seamen not only in cases such as the one with Captain Laptal when it comes to possible legal violations and criminal acts in a drug-related act, but also other cases related to maritime operations. After this round table, in which we will include international legal experts, we will submit to the International Maritime Law Association a proposal to move towards international instruments, international conventions to amend such provisions that define criminal liability in the first order for commanders, as well as for other responsible persons in navigation. Furthermore, what was still said in the debate was the possibility of introducing cabotage for both mega yachts and yachts in the Republic of Croatia. On the contrary, in our negotiating position, the Government of the Republic of Croatia wanted to keep for a certain time the charter of activities in the Republic of Croatia only ships under the Croatian flag and only for shipowners who have headquarters or owners of charter companies based in the Republic of Croatia. We therefore hold that we can still and want to help Croatian companies, small companies that have one, two or yachts that can still carry out this activity without competition from foreign yachts in the Republic of Croatia. Will we be able to provide through the negotiation process a transitional period for yacht cabotage and shipowners providing services in excursion and passenger tourism, we will see about this in field tourism, but in any case we did not want to see it before we joined the European Union the possibility of providing these types of services in tourism, in nautical tourism and others other than companies that have their headquarters in the Republic of Croatia and whose ships hold a Croatian flag. As for the issue asked by Mr Jurjevic, it concerns a concession extended in January last year in all marinas in the ACI system. I mean, it's not true. No extended concession for all marinas in the ACI system until 2030 for all marinas. Namely, those marinas that were already marinas of national importance at the time, which are those marinas that have more than 200 berths on them, the concession deadline by 2030 had already been applied. This government decision extended eleven marinas in the ACI system, which until then were marinas of county importance to them to 2030, and for all marinas in the ACI system, the same concession is the same concession that applies to the surface of the aquarium and the mainland part of the marina on the one hand and that is the fixed part of the fee. And the second part is the variable relating to business, the total income that a single marina achieves in its space. Therefore, the situation is such and it is not true that the revenue from the concession fee is greater or more in favour of the state and less in favour of local self-government or regional self-government. However, the concession fee made by paying for the use of maritime goods at the same amount as 33%, so in one third of the income is the state budget, the county's budget is the income and the unit's budget is the local self-government. As for the registration of boats or yachts, I must also say that it is not possible for a yacht to treat a vessel with more than 12 passengers. For what? Since a vessel carrying more than 12 passengers is considered to be a ship and the basis of the SOLAS Convention, it is then subject to significantly greater safety, meeting the safe conditions for passengers sailing on board and, in that case, those vessels must be considered as vessels and registered in Croatia or in another register of ships. Therefore, when it comes to mega yachts and yachts in the Republic of Croatia, a special register was prescribed for them, which was introduced by the 2004 Maritime Code. So, let me finish. I thank all those who participated in the debate. I also accept the amendments, two amendments proposed by the esteemed representative Kalaš, which relate to insurance which must be provided by shipowners who sail to the Croatian ports and relate to the subjugations and amendments which are actually nootechnic amendment number 7 in this article, which should have been number 8. Therefore, here I accept both these amendments. And as for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I say that there is no need, we cannot accept it because I have already said that we are in the process of making the law itself, which will amend and introduce an unfettered working internship through another law rather than amendments to the Maritime Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21302	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that, in our proposal for a conclusion, we propose that the amendment of this law regulate an unfettered work experience. We have just suggested what you have said, therefore, to pass the law, we have not stated that this is a law which, within 60 days, the Government is obliged to deliver this proposal to the Parliament. And we think that 60 days is an appropriate deadline because in February of this year you announced that it would be the bill. Therefore, not this law, any law only to resolve the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21304	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21305	Let's move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, it's an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.: No. 196. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and MP Zeljana Kalaš. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted these amendments. In accordance with Article 165 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, they become an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This bill unanimously with 112 votes. I am voting on the proposal tabled by the Legislative Committee, a proposal for a conclusion of the Legislative Committee, which reads: "The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to publish a revision of the text of this law before its publication in the "National Journals". Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? This conclusion was adopted unanimously with 112 votes. We also have a proposal for the conclusion of the SDP Representatives' Club, which the proposing representative did not accept. Who is behind the conclusion of the SDP Representatives' Club, which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit within 60 days to the Croatian Assembly the bill, which regulates the right to the benefits of the maritime work experience." Please, who is this conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This proposal was not adopted because it was voted by 37 MPs and MPs, 75 against. The abstentions? ... So 37 for, and 75 for abstentions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21306	We're moving to the third item of the agenda. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Attorney's Office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 197. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant to discuss its legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Marina Dujmovic-Vukovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Law on State's Attorney's Office was passed in 2001 and amended in 2007. However, during the application and for reasons of rationalisation and the need to participate in peacekeeping missions, certain provisions should be updated and amended. Thus, although certain provisions of the Law on State Attorneyship result in the fact that the Deputy State Attorney is independent in the work and decision-making of the case given to him in the work, it was necessary to introduce it in the law and the saying, since in practice, the provision relating to the responsibility of the State Attorney for Labour, the State's Attorney General, was often misread in practice. In view of this and the objections that arose during the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, that the deputies of the State's attorney were not independent and independent in making a decision in the specific case, this is Article 13 amended to avoid any doubt. It is, of course, important to stress here that the independence and independence of the deputy state attorney is not equal to the independence and independence of the judge, and not only because the state's attorney can give him a more mandatory guideline for acting in a specific case, but also because of responsibility for the work of the state's attorneyship as a whole. In addition, Article 61 of the Treaty on the Functioning The law on the State's Attorney's Office provides that when the first entry into the State's attorney's office, State's attorneys shall be appointed for a period of five years and that only after the appointment of the Deputy State's Attorney shall they perform their duties on a permanent basis. This provision shall apply from 2008 from the beginning of the procedure for the re-nomination of the Deputy State Attorney. A deputy state attorney who has not been re-appointed ends his state's attorney's duty under the law. In the current Article 68 of this Law, it was not prescribed that a deputy state attorney who was not re-appointed would cease to be a state attorney by force of the law. Article 68 of this Act should therefore be completed in order to resolve who in this case makes a decision determining the occurrence of this situation. Further changes concern the possibility of the involvement of state attorneys, i.e. deputy state attorneys in international judicial bodies and international missions. The proposed amendments propose to add a new item in Article 107a which stipulates that if a State lawyer or deputy State attorney fails to carry out the obligation to report on his or her assets, on permanent incomes, and on the property of a spouse and minor children within 30 days of entering the state's attorney's office, that the attorney general will invite them to submit the requested information within 15 days. And if the attorney general or deputy attorney of the state does not supply the requested information within this time limit, the attorney general or the minister in charge of the affairs of the judiciary will launch a case against such a state attorney or a protagonist. Article 22 The Constitutional Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities provides for the obligation of judicial authorities to take care of national structures and national minorities in judicial bodies in the employment of officials and deputies. Article 123 has therefore been brought into line with this provision of constitutional law. Finally, the rationalisation of the judicial network, the network of courts is under way, and therefore changes are needed in relation to the rationalisation of the network of state attorneys. It is proposed that state attorneys in the state's attorneys who join together on the day of the merger cease their duties and continue to work as deputy state attorneys in the joint state's attorney's office. When state attorneys cease to act on their duty to join state attorneys, the State Attorney's Attorney General will appoint a Deputy State Attorney. That's briefly on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21308	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? I see you don't. I'm opening a debate. And first they're clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21309	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship. Here, as we have seen in this assessment of the situation, since 2001, this fundamental law that we are now changing has been passed. So it's been over seven years. I must say, it's one of the crucial laws that founded the state's attorney's office just like that, starting with the constitutional principles of independence and independence of the state's attorney's office. However, the independence of both state attorneys and judicial authorities, both in the broadest sense and in the broadest sense, as well as in the sense of other services which, in order to obtain the successes of their constitution and to achieve the tasks that they have done by law and by the Constitution of days, is a very important political climate in which these constitutional rights and legislative solutions are achieved. It is also to be noted precisely to strengthen the state's attorney's office we've already equated the salaries of the state's attorneys and judges of the same rank in 2002. Until then, we had one, a whole, a decade or so in our entire legal history, the state's attorneys were paid less than judges by 2002. It was then considered somehow normal because there's a state's attorney just a party to the proceedings and it's the judge who makes the decisions. However, in a largely inquisition system where the burden of evidence lies on the court, and not only the judgments or decisions taken by courts under the law may have been understandable. But given the fact that the new role of the State's Attorney's Office in the new system was also inconclusive in 2002, which unfortunately did not happen until today, and we just passed the first reading of the Criminal Procedure Act, there is a new role of the State's Attorney's Office, under which courts release the inquisitor elements to seek evidence themselves. Namely, the state's attorney's office needs a burden of evidence, and unless the defendant proves guilty, the defendant is released. This is one of the cleanest accounts that, as well as such, prevails in Europe, with major or minor changes almost worldwide. So the State's Attorney's Office, the state's attorney, will be absolutely responsible for the success, for the finals that have to happen before the court. However, the amendments to the Law on the State Attorney's Office, those which are only small and small now but which are large, need to be made together with amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure but also the announced amendments to the Law on Police Powers because it is one package that must lead this elaborate new procedure until we have seen it. Therefore, it would be good to have these two new laws and amendments in the procedure of this second reading, the new amendments to the Law on State's Attorneyy but also the Law on Police Powers. What's already clear now is that the role of a state's attorney is that he's gathering all the evidence, that he's starting an investigation, not an investigative judge. That the investigative judge is turning into a controller. However, here and already on the occasion of these changes, one important and important thing should be warned. To whom responsibility is given, it must be defined to the end but thus set up in the system. We can no longer have two lines of command and today we have it even though those last amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act were a bypass to what is about to happen, what should have happened a long time ago, which is that the outcome of the proceedings is in line with the state's attorney and that he commands these investigative actions in the detection and collection, in the detection of perpetrators of crime and insurance, fixation, obtaining the evidence necessary for the prosecution and then later and for the conviction. In this new system, we will see and now with the latest changes to the State's Attorney's Office, the state's attorney has the right to issue binding orders to the police. But then the police should answer. Who? Well, I guess whoever gave him the warrants. We have seen in our first reading that this line is being interrupted and that the regular forces will therefore continue to be subject to binding orders, as is the case with the existing changes, the last changes have been resolved, but unfortunately, the government has not been able to force some of its executive powers, such as the police and, in this sense, the regular forces involved in this repressive part and, therefore, the detection and processing of the perpetrators, to correspond to the judicial authority in the broadest sense, i.e. The state's attorney's office will, however, be ordered by him, the state's attorney will command but the responsibility, these police officers, whether or not they did something, whether they acted on such a binding order not to answer to a state's attorney, but to a police director or a minister. So we have that double role again. We have essentially politicizing then, the objection really stands then by politicizing the conduct of criminal proceedings. In order to avoid this, it is therefore necessary to remain with the basic idea that the police forces are accountable to the one who issued the warrant. If we don't want to, then the whole situation will be divorced again, and again we won't know who's responsible for the success? Either we transfer or it's very easy to transfer responsibility to the judicial authority and even to the state's attorney's office without someone from the police obstructing. It doesn't have to happen, but with a system like this, it can happen. But after all, we also have a negative experience in practice. Until today, when the public is distracted by some decisions or unfortunately not quite, unfortunately not very rarely with decisions that simply do not, which defuse the public or mildly do not reflect or cause public approval, then the transfer of responsibility from one body to another or all those participants from the process of discovery to trial. In order for this to happen or to avoid that happening, it is necessary to amend that one provision that we had in that first reading. We have seen great promises from the new minister that certain changes will be made in this regard. So there are these changes and such improvements with impatience we look forward to. And to come back very specifically now, given that this is about urgent changes to what I can also say on behalf of the SDP Club that these changes that are now happening here in order to better define the role and independence and the exact jobs that the deputy in the State's Attorney's Office performs in each level for us, and it has not been too reluctant. I don't think that anyone in the service has been challenged because the deputies have always had their own independence but of course the State's Attorney's Office is not a pandemic to the judiciary, nor can the state's attorney at any level, nor can his deputy be absolutely independent as it is, such as the judge or even the judge of the municipal court compared to judges even the Supreme Court. However, to better define their roles as he himself does, which are things that go to one college and when a college needs to be avoided after that, it is all settled in the existing Law on State Attorneyship. However, if this is necessary to make changes here in Article 13 that may not be clear, or who does not know what our system is, we have nothing against such changes or we have no such changes. However, here I am using the opportunity for judicial officials who are first on duty, and these are both judges and state lawyers to have one trial, to have that one probationary period of five years, but that does not mean that after the deadline has passed, if they have done their job well, which must not be missed by one volunteer assessment whether someone likes it or not, here is enough to objectiveize the work of each official, and above all, those who are first on duty. Therefore, this should simply be resolved without a public ad, without a public tender that does not simply cause one disturbance, one disturbance in those who think it is only a competition, or an ad for the first entry into the judicial bodies, whether it is a court or a state attorney's office. Once again, I draw attention to the fact that otherwise the admission and entry into the judicial bodies must be transparent from the very beginning. It wasn't that long ago, it seems to me that it was back in 2004, in the beginning we had that famous case of reception, it seems to me that they were judicial practitioners. This fortunately did not happen in the state's attorney's office, people who were admitted without criteria, or grades meant nothing. It is good that this law is now going on and on the trainees in which the judicial exam is first and foremost being passed, but equally, here is to be objectiveized to the limits, so the work of the judicial officers whether it is the judges or the state's attorneys, and even then much earlier when they are only trainees, and then when they pass this five-year probationary period, and throughout their careers, so that those who truly are the best progresses, in order to preserve themselves in the system. We also have an almost inexplicable phenomenon that although the state lawyers are evenly paid in salary with judges of the same rank, there is an outflow of staff and we see through these public ads that many state lawyers compete in the vacant court seats. What it means and how it can only be interpreted as clearly wanting to be independent in the sense that no one asks them anything, and that is not the case in the state's attorney's office. You see, if such freedom or this vision of freedom would not be understood so, we need to introduce it, and I believe that, these are the amendments to the Penal Code that have been declared, we must again and again, for the protection of our citizens, to protect the judicial officials who honor the work and to protect the chicane conduct, but also to get away from the system of those who cannot deserve and who cannot stand the high standards of this profession, which is the criminal act of breaking the law by a judicial official. To note, we had this crime in our criminal law until 1996, so in 1997, those famous years when most of it happened in Croatia, and then it had to be decriminalized, that is, to get this crime out of the law, and I believe that it did not happen by accident, but that is why we deliberately see what is going on in this next amendment of the Criminal Code, it is precisely to fight corruption, in order to protect our citizens better, but for the sake of the more transparent work of the judicial officials necessary to introduce our criminal legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21310	Thank you. Dear representative Ana Lovrin on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, today we are discussing a final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on State's Attorney's Office. That's the second amendment to this law that was passed, as a colleague said in 2001. It was a year and it was a time after constitutional changes and after a special constitutional provision in relation to the state's attorney's office. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this second amendment of the law, for the most part because we believe that further improvement is being made, i.e. filling legal gaps and resolving the ambiguities that will surely contribute to a more efficient organisation of the work of the state's attorney. The first amendments and additions to the Law on State Attorney's Office were adopted at the very beginning of 2007 and resolved the observed deficiencies after then five years of application. First of all, these amendments were then arranged for the demarcation and jurisdiction of civil and administrative departments of municipal and county state attorneys and the State's attorney's office of the Republic of Croatia in terms of full release of representation of units of local and regional self-government by the State's attorneys and for clear reasons for leaving the State's attorney's capacity and time to fully respond to his constitutional task in that civic and administrative part, which was to protect the state's ownership and the general good, and the issue was to be resolved both in relation to the possible conflict of interest and in relation to the release of the capacity of the State's attorney to fulfil his basic task. These changes were also the first to introduce a series of improvements compared to internal supervision of the work of state attorneys. A system of quality and objective evaluation of state attorneys has been created, the process of appointment and resolution of state lawyers has been improved, and as we have heard necessary, I fully agree, transparency and objectiveization of the criteria for admission to the State Attorney's Office or in the circle of judicial officials at all. The security verification system for state lawyers who agree to this, of course, was then introduced because of the work on complex cases, very often significant for national security. It was then introduced the obligation of property, the submission of property cards to state attorneys, and provisions on the confidentiality of the State's attorney's office's information were laid down. The amendments and additions to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office which we are discussing today are certainly further improving this law and forming the State's Attorney's Office, and relate above all to the clarification of Article 13 and the resolution of its various interpretations in practice. The need for a clear definition of the independence and independence of the deputy state attorney has been pointed out, both in the work on the assigned cases and in the ad hoc taken over in exchange. There have been interpretations in practice on the ground as it is said, that the deputy state attorney is not independent, that all procedures of the State's Attorney's Office are being held by a state attorney and that the deputy does not make decisions on its own. So it was in practice and the situation that in some state attorneys, in fact, all decisions applied to colleges and there were objections in the screening process, was observed by experts from the European Commission and an objection was made to the possible lack of independence of deputy state attorneys. Although this has been defined by the law so far, Article 26 of the current law, the saying is when and in what way the State's attorney has the right to give the deputy instructions for action, and the procedure and method of giving the instruction is also prescribed and the procedure in which the deputy may react unless it agrees with the instructions. However, this is now further clarified in a way that Article 3 of Article 13 provides that the cases are to be given to deputies in a manner prescribed by the Internal Affairs Regulation, and paragraph 4 is to be given to deputies when replacing a State lawyer. But, of course, that's already said, and the position of a state attorney, the deputy state attorney, is different from that of a judge, that the deputy state attorney has no independence as a judge, given however the possibility of giving mandatory guidance by a state attorney clearly in accordance with the procedure provided for by law. Furthermore, these amendments are regulated and the situation where, i.e., the reasons for the termination of the state's attorney's office under the law in the event of non-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no, or the date after the first appointment and the procedure has been laid down and who determines that. In relation to the question of the re-election after the first appointment after five years, we note that the procedure should be regulated in the way that it was arranged for judges by the Law on the State Judicial Council where the re-election is carried out without the calling of an ad, and therefore it is not possible for potential candidates to be wronged to be involved in a new judicial post. The situation has also been resolved because, as we have heard from previous amendments, the obligation to submit property cards has been imposed, so the situation is resolved if the State Attorney, or the Deputy State Attorney, does not make that legal commitment then such treatment has been found to be a strict responsibility and has been given by the authority of the State Attorney and the Minister of Justice to be able to initiate a tight procedure. The situation has also been resolved as well as in the Law on Courts, given that it will be very soon on our benches to find the Amendments and Supplements Act on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers or Colloquialized on the rationalisation of the state's attorney network which is necessarily followed by the Law on Areas and Seats of the Courts or the streamlining of the judicial network, so the question of the status of a state attorney, deputy state attorney, officials and subsistence in such joint state attorneys has been resolved. These amendments and additions are also clearly determined by the Croatian Government's intention to confirm its commitment to full application and implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and also by a special provision relating to attention here, the representation of national minorities when they are admitted to the service, regardless of the fact that officials in courts are therefore received under the Law on State Employees, is once again stressed by a special provision that the reception of officials and deputies in the State Attorney's Office will take into account the representation of members of national minorities. All these changes are, as we have said, further improvement, a normative basis for further improvement and efficiency of the work of state attorneys. I must say that we are of the opinion that these amendments and additions may have to be addressed and some other provisions of this law, particularly in relation to the provisions of the reelection of the state's attorney's office after five years, so that it is not necessary to re-advertise, but rather that the State's Attorney-General can nominate without advertising, to specify the obligation to inform the State's attorney of particularly complex cases and cases, as well as the regulation or possible finding of a better term that the Deputy Attorney General is obliged to notify the State's attorney if it is a case or case of special state interest. But bearing in mind that the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which will also be very soon on our benches, which sets out a whole new role for the state’s attorneyship, will play a more active role in which the State’s attorney will be responsible for the burden of proving the conduct of the crime. In any case, the adoption of this law will also require a brand-new Law on State Attorney's Office, and then we believe that these suggestions in which the current amendments and additions should be extended will also find their place in the new Law on State Attorney's Office. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this proposal as a further normative improvement, and everything else we expect to see in the new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21312	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21313	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what the law's name is saying about amendments and additions to the State's Attorney's Law, it's somehow suggested that it's about major and significant changes. However, I don't think the content itself points to that. The motionor probably won't agree with this opinion, but here I will give a few reasons for such an opinion. In this regard, the main point of this law is, as can be seen from the reasons, this disputed Article 13 and the reasoning states, as the State Secretary pointed out, that although certain provisions of the Law on the State's Attorneyship result in the fact that the Deputy State's Attorney is independent in the work and decision-making in the matter given to him. Therefore, it was necessary to introduce it in this law with a saying so that it would not be disputed whether the deputy was truly independent in the work or not. It is also argued that paragraph 2 of that law that it can be interpreted that way, and also because they appeared during the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia, the objections that the deputy state attorneys are not independent and independent in their work and that this article should be amended. Such interpretation, in the opinion of the HNS Representatives Club, is unnecessary and wrong because in Article 26. The law accurately states how a state attorney has the right to give instructions to a deputy for work and conduct in a particular case. And Article 26 is also prescribed the way in which the instructions and the rights of the deputy who considers that the instruction is wrong. Thus, such a text is almost the same, almost in those words and in the light of this law, so that we believe that there is no specific law that this article is dedicated to more than half of the reasoning in this bill. So there's no need to change. It seems to me that it repeats the practice that when the law is not applied or, as in this case, when it is interpreted differently, it is then going to pass a new law and then it will be as if it were going to be all right. However, I remind you that the Croatian Parliament is also responsible for the credible interpretation of the law so that I do not see why the Proposer did not ask the Parliament for a credible interpretation rather than for amendments and additions to the law itself. Well, that's it. Furthermore, in addition to a few compliances with other laws, the obligation to submit a property card within 30 days is added and a tight procedure is prescribed unless it is done. We believe that it is absolutely in the place of such a provision and it would be good to introduce it into other laws that require the submission of such a report. However, the strict procedure under the bill of law is being initiated on the proposal of the Attorney General or the Minister of Justice in charge of the affairs of the judiciary. However, I don't see any reason for the minister to take all of his obligations, to take care and to initiate a strict procedure against a state's attorney or his deputy, and I think that would be enough to do so himself as a top state attorney. Therefore, all in all, I do not think that the adoption of this law will significantly enrich Croatian legislation and that there is no special need for its adoption by emergency procedure, even for the reasons set out in Article 3 that state lawyers and their deputies can be referred to international judicial bodies and international missions. I also warn that there is no prescribed time limit in this article for the Minister of Justice to adopt a Regulation on the criteria for sending state lawyers and their deputies to international missions. However, regardless of all this, the Club of HNS Representatives will support the adoption of this law with one well-intentioned remark that there are probably more important things that should be amended and brought into line with some other laws, and then we expect that within a certain period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21314	Thank you. And so we interrupt now the first part of the session in the morning. We will continue at 3 p.m. and the first in a single debate will be the distinguished representative Ivo Grbić. I wish you all a good time. Thank you very much. We're going back to work. As I announced, an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21316	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyy shall amend the provision of Article 13 of the applicable law adopted in 2001 and completed in 2007. Indeed, the existing provision creates difficulties in the application of its different interpretation and indeterminateness, which conditioned the need to amend and unequivocally determine its content, in particular with regard to matters carried out by a state lawyer, responsibilities for the work of representation, management of the state's attorney, as well as matters carried out by a deputy state attorney and the very relationship of the State Attorney-General. The proposed amendment is just reaching that goal. In addition, Article 68 of the Law is complemented and provides for the termination of a state-level attorney's office under the law of a deputy State lawyer and in the event that he is not re-appointed, which entails a solution which determines the occurrence of the circumstances. In accordance with Article 21(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, it is therefore The laws of state lawyers and deputy state attorneys may be applied to international judicial bodies and international missions, and a special regulation will lay down the conditions when this can be realised. In the final draft of the law, it shall be possible for the Chief State Attorney or the Minister of Justice to initiate a strict procedure against a State Attorney or a Deputy State Attorney who does not fulfil the obligation to report on his or her assets, the incomes and assets of a spouse and minor children within 30 days of the entry into the State's attorney's office and after calling on the Attorney General to provide the requested information within a further 15 days. In accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities, this law complements the provision that, in the case of the admission of officials and subsistences to the State Attorney's Office, consideration must be taken of the representation of officials and subsistence members of national minorities. As part of the reform of the judicial system, the rationalisation of the judicial network requires rationalisation and networks of state lawyers to be implemented by the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. Therefore, it is proposed that state attorneys in the state's attorneys who are joined, on the day of the merger, cease their duties and continue to work as deputy state attorneys in the joint state's attorney. Of course, in this case, the State Attorney's Attorney-General will appoint a Deputy State Attorney to perform the affairs of the State's Attorney until the appointment of a new State Attorney-General of the Joint State Attorney-General. For this reason, I support the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21317	Thank you. And distinguished representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21318	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, before us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship, which is proposed to be adopted as stated, by an urgent procedure. In the opening statement of the State Secretary and the debate so far, I think that the reasons for its adoption and the issues they want to settle are more or less said, so in my debate, I will only touch myself very briefly and repeat what I hold most important to this bill. As it is said, due to the awkward interpretations in the accession negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union, the opinion has emerged that the deputies of the state's attorney are not independent and independent in decision-making in a particular case. In order to remove such doubts and wrong interpretations, it is proposed to specify more precisely the expression and content of Article 13 of this Act governing the responsibility and conduct of the deputy state attorney for the work in the case which was assigned to him. The independence of the Deputy State Attorney shall be limited only in some cases, for example when giving mandatory instructions for compliance in accordance with Article 26. The state's attorney's law when the responsibility for the decision is taken by the state's attorney. Since the State Attorney is responsible for the overall work and decisions of the State Attorney's Office, it is proposed to prescribe that, at the request of a State Attorney, he is required to introduce him to the work in a particular case and the decision he intends to make, and in particular on the state of affairs of particular state interest or of a case in which complex factual and legal issues arise. Furthermore, these laws stipulate that the reason for the termination of the State's attorney's office is for the deputy state's attorney by force of the law and his name after the expiry of the five-year period after the first entry into force of the law. The possibility of sending state lawyers and their deputies to international judicial authorities and international missions is regulated. It shall be governed by the procedure in the event of a failure to report on its property, the property of a spouse, as well as the underage children of a State lawyer or his deputy and shall also be subject to the obligation to take account of the national structure and representation of members of national minorities in respect of admissions to the Service of State Attorneys in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Therefore, given the reasons and content of this law, I will support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21319	Thank you. Does the government want a representative? Yeah. Dear Marina Dujmović Vukovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21320	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, it is precisely in line with the expectations set out in this debate, and creating a more quality structure in the fight against crime, particularly organised crime and corruption, after the new CAP has been adopted, that will be fully regulated and harmonised by the Law on the State's Attorney's Office in order to strengthen and speed up and do an effective anti-crime procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21321	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21322	Third, Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorney's Office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 197. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office. Who's in favor of this bill, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that this proposal has been voted unanimously by 110 MPs and MPs in favour of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21323	We move to the 4th item of the agenda - Annual State aid report for 2007 Carrier of the Competition Protection Agency. This report was submitted by the Competition Protection Agency pursuant to Article 20. State aid laws. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered the following opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honored Olga Spevec, President of the Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21324	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. As Mr Jarnjak said, you have before you the Annual Report on State aid for 2007 which according to the law, the agency is obliged to deliver to the Croatian Assembly for adoption. The Annual Report contains a review of State aid for 2007 but also final data on the support granted during 2005 and 2006 for all economic sectors, including agriculture and fisheries for whose control is otherwise not the competent agency. You will also find information in the report on individual categories and forms of support. Just to remind you what is considered to support this law. Therefore, in order to qualify the aid as support in accordance with the State aid law, State resources granted by the State in the state budget must be involved, whether at the level of the central state or local self-government units or the funds from the budget of state-owned enterprises, funds and the like. These funds must give a certain economic advantage to a particular entrepreneur, a group of entrepreneurs, a region and therefore on a selective basis. And what is also one of the essential conditions for us to conclude whether a certain state transfer refers to support because it is a transfer that can affect trade between Croatia and European communities in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Therefore, State support within the meaning of this law is not considered to be all the support that the state grants directly to citizens, is not considered to be transfers from the state budget to local self-government units, are not considered to be funds for the construction of infrastructure, or are also not considered measures of economic policy that lower taxes, contributions or other taxes at the general level. In 2007, total state aid amounting to 8 billion and 947 million kuna was granted. This represents 13% growth compared to the previous 2006. The share of support in the gross domestic product was 3.3%. Also, an important indicator of the real level of state support is that, according to employee state support, last year, nearly 6 thousand kuna and per capita slightly above 2,000 kuna. In other words, each employee of the Republic of Croatia gave little more than his monthly net salary for state support. So he gave it to another entrepreneur or a group of entrepreneurs. In which economic sectors do Croatian taxpayers and employees provide the highest means of survival or growth through the budget? So according to data, industry and services are participating in aids of 5 billion and 737 million kuna. Agriculture and fishing 3 billion and 210 million kuna. In relation to the total amount of aid granted, therefore, to sectoral support, about 83% of the total aid granted and to others, such as support for regional development and the horizontal objectives of only 17% of the support. Support to the industry and services sector grew in the last year at an annual rate of 6.8% and in agriculture at 27%. As part of the support for industry and services, the largest amount of approximately 2 billion and 300 million kuna or about 40% of the support is for shipbuilding, 1.4 billion kuna for transport support, mostly for Croatian railways, then the iron and steel and tourism industry. A little more than 800 million kuna or 14% of the support granted to this sector refers to horizontal objectives, therefore, to a greater number of entrepreneurs and these horizontal objectives are, as we know, research and development, innovation, environmental protection, employee training, employment of small and medium-sized enterprises. Some 480 million support, county, municipalities and cities were granted around 195 million kuna of support to entrepreneurs in their local self-government units for regional development. The share of support for industry and services, hence, and without transport in Croatia's GDP, is around 1.57%. As I said, the annual report also contains an overview of support according to forms, so whether it is guarantees, subsidies, tax exemptions. Last year, therefore, 2007 is characterised by subsidies and then by state guarantees, and gradually increases the share of tax exemptions and exemptions, as one of the most qualitative forms of support specifically for horizontal objectives. Only a few words of comparison work with the EU 27. Last year, 60 billion euros in support was allocated to the European Union. However, in their GDP it is 0.53%. Without the support of agriculture, that share is 0.4%. At the same time, almost all support Member States target the largest part for horizontal objectives, so that the share of support for horizontal objectives, total support in this year is about 60 to 80%, closer to 80 than 60. Some countries such as the Czech Republic, Estonia, Sweden, grant up to 100% of the budget support for horizontal support, so total support. And mostly to protect the environment and save energy, regional development, again research and development. And especially for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. In Croatia, for each of the targets mentioned, it is individually set between 0.5% and cca. 2% of last year's support. It is therefore clear from the above mentioned data that only certain entrepreneurs and certain economic sectors, particularly when it comes to the area of industry and services, still benefit from the aid, i.e. taxpayers' money. There is also an answer to the question, why support in our country, although high compared to the share in gross domestic product, but of course also compared with other EU Member States, have no significant impact on increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, as measured by increasing exports or changing the structure of Croatian exports. Which, as we know, has been unchanged for decades. In order to achieve this, through support affecting the strength of the Croatian economy and achieving their more effective impact on competitiveness, it is necessary to change the approach of support policy with greater determination. In other words, the necessary reform procedures should be carried out which will result in the restructuring of those sectors of industry, which, despite the support and support of the state, are unable to provide assumptions for long-term sustainable business, but are necessary for them to ensure their current business. If this is not done, not only will we be in the current state support system of problems related to obtaining formal conditions for membership in the European Union, but we will be seen in the long term, increasingly lagging behind competition and global players, which in itself will necessarily lead to the shutting down or disappearance of these industries. Therefore, the continuation of the reform process, the synequanon of future economic growth, particularly in these crisis and uncertain times when appropriate measures will have to encourage more than ever investments in those economic activities that contribute to the conservation and further development of small and medium-sized enterprises, energy savings, the development of knowledge-based industries. On the need for reform procedures, it is necessary to strengthen awareness and obtain support for all directly involved in these processes, but also beyond, from employees, professional public, units of local self-government. I am convinced that it will make a constructive contribution to this House. In order to be able to make changes to the support system, it demonstrates the progress made through the continued growth of horizontal support and regional support, resulting from the growing awareness of the support providers of the need to change the approach of support policy and the rerouting of state resources for purposes that involve more users and deliver better effects on the longer term. Consistent implementation of this approach will gradually replace sectoral support for those intended to encourage new investments, research in development, regional development and other similar purposes. At the same time, this will also demonstrate in practice the willingness to accept attitudes towards support in the European Union, less and better targeted state support. In other words, several horizontal support for business activities that are addressed to new or improved products and services, modern technologies, improvement and already mentioned environmental protection, development research, etc. Even in times of crisis as we are now, we should not succumb to general psychosis, fear, and atmosphere at all costs. We already have the strength and will to distinguish those who need help to overcome the negative effects of the global crisis from those who will also want to use this situation in order to avoid the necessary and inevitable structural reforms, regardless of the sector. The Competition Protection Agency has drawn up this report. However, its task is not just to keep statistics and support records. It is our role to introduce you to the real situation in the area of support, the purposes of support and its effects, about how the taxpayers' funds have been spent. Since the formulation and implementation of the State aid policy are in the jurisdiction of the state authorities, the supporter is intended to point out the results of the policy implemented, the weaknesses and the policy as well as the positive developments observed. I therefore hope that this report will be a given indication and help in designing a future support policy. Starting with national interest, increasing the competitiveness of the domestic economy on the one hand, and limited resources on the other, it is evident that the future support policy must be clearly defined and targeted at the pre-defined objectives and priorities with effective implementation and control and ultimately, it must be a less burden for taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21325	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Economy, the Honorable Representative, Kreso Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21326	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Competition Protection Agency, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament held at the 18th session on 19 November 2008, discussed the 2007 Annual Report on State aid to the President of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 20(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The aid law, National Novine No. 140, was submitted by the Competition Protection Agency by an act of 13 November 2008. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the above annual report as a parent working body. The opening presentation was submitted by the proposing representative, reporting that state support in the Republic of Croatia amounted to 8 billion 947 million kuna for 2007, which is 3.3% of gross domestic product. The most significant forms of support are state guarantees, followed by subsidies and tax exemptions, and loans under favourable conditions and equity shares. When it comes to types of support, it should be pointed out that horizontal support is significantly less likely to distort competition from sectoral support, and the following would be desirable to increase horizontal support in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and even regional development. State aid control is important not only to ensure that all entrepreneurs have a level playing field, but is one of the important factors in increasing the competitiveness of entrepreneurs, as well as attracting and encouraging domestic and foreign investors. Following the introduction of the representative of the applicant, the issue of shipbuilding guarantees subject to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been raised. In its reply to the proposaler's representatives, the Republic of Croatia explained that the obligation to coordinate support with European Union legislation had been taken over by the Republic of Croatia in a way that individual support should be coordinated immediately and support programmes within 4 years. In the opinion of the proposer's representative, it is not possible to seek back the support provided for the programmes found, noting that this is certainly a matter of negotiations. The question is also asked, will the Republic of Croatia be able to pay support in accordance with its national economic policy with the support it will receive from the common budget of the European Union or will be centralised. The applicant's representative pointed out that Member States are free to establish a support policy but that the European Commission's approval is necessary for the same. It noted that in accordance with European Union legislation, the Republic of Croatia will be established a coordinating body for granting support. After the discussion, the Committee on Economy unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "The Annual Report on State aid for 2007 is accepted. A year.". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21327	Thank you. We're moving on to a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21328	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Competition Protection Council, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. The annual State aid report provides a review of state aid in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2005 to 2007 at the level of the total allocations, as well as at the level of State aid granted to agriculture and fisheries, as well as industry and services. This report also points to the effectiveness of certain economic branches in view of the amount of support received and economic growth achieved. Furthermore, this report also allows comparison of the level of state aid granted in Croatia with the reference average of the European Union countries, as well as the comparison with each member individually. In 2007 state support in Croatia amounted to 8 million 950 thousand kuna, which is 13% more than in 2006. The share of total support in the gross domestic product was 3.3%, which is 2.8% higher than in 2006. The growth of total support in 2007 compared to 2006 is due to a significant increase in support granted to agriculture and fisheries, shipbuilding, transport, steel sector, recovery, restructuring, etc. A significant increase in support began in 2006 when the biggest impact on overall support growth was on the increase in shipbuilding support that followed the approval of support for the recovery of this sector. In September 2006, a package of guarantees for the rehabilitation of the shipyard was approved as a first step in the shipbuilding restructuring process. By the end of 2006, 4.2 billion kunas of state guarantees were granted to resuscitate the shipyard by the end of 2006 and 1.7 billion kuna. Supports in 2007 without agriculture, fisheries and transport were allocated through different instruments. Thus, the most significant form of support is state guarantees with a share of 50.1%, followed by subsidies of 23.9% and tax exemptions with a share of 20.6% while loans under more favourable conditions and equity shares in support instruments participate with 5.4%. One of the three categories of State aid is horizontal state support. They aim to address certain problems that are common to all entrepreneurs, sectors and areas, i.e. to eliminate or reduce the effects of market failures, i.e. a situation where market mechanisms do not work and the market itself does not produce economically efficient results and entrepreneurs cannot successfully address these problems by relying solely on their own experience. This category includes support which encourages research and innovation, environmental protection and energy savings, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and then investment in risk capital, employment and training of employees. Horizontal support amounted to 822.2 million kuna in 2007. In the structure of these horizontal support in 2007, the largest part, which means about 44% and 363.2 million kuna respectively, was allocated for employment where the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity granted 7.1 million kuna support for the recruitment and improvement of Croatian defenders. Then there is support for 22.2% improvement, support for research, development and innovation 19.6%, culture 6.7%, small and medium entrepreneurs 5.2% and for environmental protection and energy savings 2.5%. Under these aids, 42.2 million kuna aid was granted to small and medium-sized enterprises in 2007. In addition to this category, small-value support was granted in 2007 through the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship programmes, the Croatian Small Economy and Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with an estimated amount of approximately 100 million kuna. Regional aid in 2007 amounted to 480.2 million kuna and was granted in the form of tax reliefs and exemptions for areas of special state care of 193 million kuna, for mountain and mountain areas of 15.3 million kuna, for the area of the city of Vukovar of 36.7 million kuna and for users of free zones of 57.2 million kuna. At the same time, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development granted regional support in 2007 through more favourable loans of EUR 178 million and the basis for the allocation of these supports were the Programme of Crediting to Encouraging Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Development where direct lending is involved, then the Programme for Crediting Development of Economic Activities and the Crediting Programme for Encouraging the Founding of Small Entrepreneurship. Between 2005 and 2007, there was a trend in regional support growth, and they were 70.3% higher in 2007 than in 2006. At the same time, their share of the total support increased from around 3% in 2005 to 3.6% in 2006 and to 5.4% in 2007. Regional support over all three years has been granted in the form of subsidies, tax reliefs and more favourable loans. Tax reliefs based on various incentives have a significant share and point to a trend in growth throughout the three-year period. Small-value support in 2007 amounted to HRK 250 million and was largely granted through subsidies. Here, among other things, I would particularly point out the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which through subsidies allocated 80 million kunas through the operational plan for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, it is also important to point out that when the data on amounts, assistance granted in the Republic of Croatia with data for individual Member States of the European Union is compared, the Republic of Croatia shall grant support at the level of Finland, Ireland and the Czech Republic. However, the share of support in the gross domestic product of the Republic of Croatia exceeds significantly the shares in the Member States of the European Union. After all, I would like to finally say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community accepts an annual report on state aid for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21329	On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21330	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Mrs. Spevec, well-respected gentlemen of MPs, it is also good to talk about state aids, we can often ignore all state aids, state guarantees and how much money is given for the recovery of one or another company, and so on for shipbuilding. I'm going to look back on shipbuilding at this point, perhaps. But first, to mention that in 2007, 8.9 billion kuna was paid for support, that's cca. One tenth of the budget, or per employee, as stated here by 5 thousand 898 kuna, means almost 6 thousand kuna or 804 euros or 2 thousand 33.5 kuna per citizen, so per citizen only goes 300 euros for support, that's some equivalent. For what these support mainly or as they apply, it is primarily agriculture and fishing, then the rehabilitation of shipbuilding, three Croatian railways, four steels, or that went for the rehabilitation of ironworks in Split or rolling stock in Sisak, and the clear rehabilitation and reconstruction of some others, let us call it so smaller Croatian companies or companies. On page 11 of this report, it is literally said that a significant increase in support began to quote in 2006 at the time the biggest impact on the overall growth of support had an increase in shipbuilding support following the approval of support for the recovery of this sector. In September 2006, a package of guarantees for the rehabilitation of the shipyard was approved as a first step in the shipbuilding restructuring process. In this regard, 4.2 billion kuna in state guarantees were granted for the rehabilitation of the shipyard by the end of 2006, with a further billion and 700 million kuna in 2007 of state guarantees. As far as I'm aware, the Oilman has not received a single kuna on that basis. But let's let it go now. On page 14, it literally states here that there are 3.2 billion kuna for agriculture and fishing, for industry and services of 5.7 billion kuna, then for some specific sectors such as steel production, transport, shipbuilding, tourism, etc., meaning for these branches there are 4.2 billion kuna, regional needs of 480 million kuna, etc., etc. When it comes to the other side of Croatia's shipbuilding, I would say that the situation is much more serious than these notes, or the hint that this report speaks of among other things. With all this support, except probably the Oilers at this time, the Oiler certainly does not, Croatian shipbuilding is, it can be said freely, almost before bankruptcy if it has not already bankrupted, except the Oilers. Every employee per year according to Mrs. Olgica Spevec, according to the national budget, read it in one of our newspapers, means every worker working in Croatian shipyards, which means that 19 thousand kuna is each month allocated from the state budget, which will say that it is at an annual level per worker from the state budget working in the shipbuilding sector, about 30,000 euros is allocated. Normally, a man has to ask himself a question when it will change. Many wonder how many will actually work for each other. On no basis, I almost dare say, the economy of the citizens of Istria County when it comes to these aids is almost getting nothing, but before I say, from 2000 to today, the state has given or approved 44 billion kuna guarantees. And that, guarantees, out of these 44 billion kunas on the charge of the state by the end of this year, amounts to 4.6 billion kuna for Brodosplit 1.9 billion kuna for third May billion and 400 million kuna for Brodotrogir 800 million kuna for the Queen 450 million kuna for the pulsary Oiler zero kuna or better said nothing. If the state doesn't extend these claims from our banks to shipyards, we'll be unable, I don't know the service of external debt and imports due to the inability to secure foreign exchanges and these shipbuilding debts, I won't say bankruptcy, but we'll miss it. In addition, it should be said that since 2000, up to today, shipbuilding has been given 2.8 billion kuna subsidies, 5.8 billion kuna support, 6.3 billion kunas for the recovery of losses, and the state will be obliged not only to 4.6.9 billion kuna next year for the shipbuilding process, but to over 8.5.9 billion kuna. As you know, there is a loss of 2.7 billion kuna above the core capital today, and for ships with 100 million kuna losses, third May is in an even worse position, unfortunately there is only one ship on the overpasses and shipyards other than the Oilies at this point I can't get a single kuna for any credit or for the payment of a clear salary. However, it seems to be the only salvation in privatisation, but on the horizon I don't see who at this time of recession could even enter Croatian shipbuilding, better put in that adventure of ours. Of the 3600 ordered ships around the world at this time, the orderers have written off more than 30% of the orders, I'm afraid some orders will not also be written off to Croatian shipyards. However, the debate on shipbuilding needs to be opened and a higher level of this report on State aid for 2007, I just want to say that some local self-government like that. The city of Pula, there in '97, '98. They themselves had to sign the claims of the Pulic Oilic in the amount of about 80% of their budget and it is time to tell citizens the truth about this state of Croatian shipbuilding and that someone higher than that assumes responsibility. To be honest, we're in the IDS behind two laws when it comes to shipbuilding. One law that would regulate status 3. Maja, Kraljevica, Trogir, Brodoplita and a special law for Oil and to stop at Uljanik with privatisation until the shipping market recovers, and then we can privatise the oil ourselves. I mean boaters, workers, the city of Pula, co-operatives and for that Istria won't need anyone outside, I would say, Istria or Croatia. We will need neither Brussels nor Strasbourg nor Zagreb. We can do it with employees, former employees and those who ran that company. And will be able to remain what is most important - the Croatian company. And if I were right, let me just say it, so I won't talk about it anymore, this year an Oilman will finish his business year with 35 to 40 million kunas. In the book of orders there are 13 ships totaling $1 billion and 300 million and after the drop of oil, steel, growth of dollars, well-run shipbuilding can be a lucrative business again, but should have clear orders, neatly serviced and be made of banks and should survive in 2009. What do we do? Can Croatia pay these 4.6 billion kuna in 2009 for our shipbuilding? Clearly, it can't, and it should know that the support per ship, like this or one, on a ship worth about $50 million, if we are counting subsidies, support, guarantees, etc., taking over debt, de facto amounts not 8% as much as it should by some logic be de facto 100%. So at the value of one boat that pays $50 million de facto someone has to give another de facto $50 million. I'm talking about shipyards from Rijeka to Split. I'm not talking about Uljanik, because the Uljanik can do business and positively, and therefore, gentlemen, let's not do that shipyard, only successfully privatize in Croatia, so whatever anyone thinks or asks for in Strasbourg, Brussels or I don't know which other European metropolis. Otherwise, according to this report, agriculture is seen to have received 3.2 billion kuna, the railways have received a billion and 400 million kuna. Otherwise, I say that 102 unionists have management contracts on the railways, which brings them a monthly salary of $12,500, which is not what unions are talking about. Just by the way, every unionist in Central has more than a minister's salary. Of course he has a driver, car, card, parking, apartment in Zagreb, if he doesn't have his own apartment-office, diary, secretary. Responsibility has one, etc., etc. It is clear that these support, if we exclude agriculture, go mainly to state-owned companies, but at a time when the crisis started to speak openly in Croatia about intervention funds, although I don't know from which funds, we can form one such fund. We will have to in particular, in a way follow the financial exporters and tourism and this small and medium entrepreneurship. Once worded, one turn should be made to save these most vital economic branches, mainly those located on the international market, and which provide us with foreign exchanges. On the 65th, 66th pages, many types of support are given horizontally, for research and development, environmental protection, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, employment, culture, savings, energy etc., etc., but I think next time we should get users of these support so that we can control who gets them and what the money is actually for in Croatia, when it comes to support, spends. For shipbuilding, we have this in particular, but I think we should get one precise report for other economic activities as well. 10% of the support that de facto comes from the budget or for support from the budget will hardly go any higher. The budget part looks to be shrinking. This 2007 report was a good business, economic year. For 2007, we know exactly how much was spent. Unfortunately, we do not know who has received these funds so that some abuses may be avoided then users should be announced, because there are nine billion kunas in the game that only such a report cannot control. But it's about nine billion kuna. That's why we're proposing, we're not going to write the conclusion, but that as soon as possible, it's short notice to the delivery agents and the users. We absolutely support this report, but in some ways we also need to speak openly as long as so much money is constantly being sucked into some activities that question whether or not it will survive. Croatia can no longer, clearly, spend as it has spent so far. You need to know what the priorities are, what you need to follow, you need to say clearly that's a minimum of who the money goes to. Although, for the record, that's what we heard about agriculture, for example. Europe provides 20% support, Croatia gives 36% support from this amount. Europe for environmental protection gives 25%, Croatia nothing. I said something about shipbuilding and not counting any further. All in all, the IDS Club supports this State Support Report, but it would be good to see which are the biggest users of state aid and how many large companies of which are privatised and actually getting money.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21331	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21332	I'm correcting, come on, I could say too prominently, it can be said and it's not incorrect. I'm thinking 20 times, 20 times he said our shipyards are in the bananas except for the oil. A little cynical all that together. You were supposed to say then are we against it? Tell your colleague: We're against this shipbuilding talk going on in any way, so it's over. We've got the Oilman, we'll have the Oilman, and that's it. So this creates the impression that you now have some sort of reserve and actually with this emphasis 20 times that it's just an oil that shouldn't support you didn't have the courage to say your position, yourself and your party to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21333	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21334	A little tense will be this one. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: No strain. He's got injuries or no injuries.]] Nothing, let's move on. But how, it corrects me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21335	We're starting an individual discussion, nothing, thank you very much, Damier. An individual debate. The first in line is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's not here? Then the second in a row is the esteemed representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam President of the Agency, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The State aid control was granted to the Agency for the Protection of Competition in 2003 by the State Aid Act. In particular, jurisdiction is reflected in the approval of State aid subject to obligations with the Agency as well as... the return of State aid granted contrary to the State aid Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have already heard that we share state support in: horizontal, sectoral and regional. Support for agriculture and fisheries in 2007 amounted to 3 billion 210.2 million kuna, which is 26.6% more than in 2006 and 51.1% more than in 2005. Support for this sector in 2007 has increased by slightly more than 1.1 billion kuna compared to 2005. Support for agriculture and fisheries shall be granted in the largest part in the form of subsidies and in the smaller part and in the form of State guarantees. It is necessary, however, to bear in mind that undertakings operating in the agriculture sector including the food industry and the production of beverages and the support sector are also granted in the form of tax reliefs governed by specific fiscal measures, for example by the Law on Areas of Specific State Care or the Law on Investment Encouragement but not covered by the tables shown above. The horizontal support in 2007 amounted to 822, 2 million kuna and, in the structure of horizontal support, the largest part of 43,8 and 360,2 million kuna respectively was allocated for employment. The following support for 22.2%, support for research, development and innovation 19.6 for culture 6.7, for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs 5.2 and for environmental protection and energy savings 2.5%. Sectoral support. In accordance with the rules on aids which are in line with the legal acquis of the European Community for certain economic sectors, private rules apply to the granting of support relating in particular to the production of steel, land traffic, for example rail, road, river, maritime transport and air transport and shipbuilding. There are no specific sectoral aid rules for the activity of tourism. However, due to the great importance of tourism for the Croatian economy, the report also shows particular support for the sector. In 2007, sectoral aids that amounted to more than 4.2 billion kuna were continued, which is 5.2% higher than in 2006. The largest part of the sectoral support in 2007 focused on the shipbuilding sector, 54.4 and the transport sector 33.2%. Regional aid in 2007 amounted to 480.2 million kuna and was granted in the form of tax reliefs and exemptions for areas of special state care of 192.8 million kuna, for mountain and mountain areas of 15.3 million kuna, for the area of the city of Vukovar of 36.7 million kuna and for users of free zones of 57.2 million kuna. According to data obtained from units of local and regional self-government in 2007, 194.8 million kuna of support was allocated. Small-value support in 2007 amounted to HRK 250.2 million and was largely granted through subsidies. Out of the total small-value support issued, 41.2% of the support was granted locally, and 58.8 of the support was granted at national level to different, through different support programmes. Nearly two-thirds of the European Union Member States responded positively to the European Council's call for rerouting support towards horizontal targets and today more than 90% of their support is granted for horizontal objectives. In these Member States, the largest increase was in support in the form of tax exemptions for environmental protection and energy savings, which account for 29% of total aid granted without support for agriculture, fisheries and transport. Support for research and development is 14%, for regional development 19%, for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs 11, employment 7th and for the improvement of 1%. If a comparison of the absolute amounts of support granted in the Republic of Croatia to data for individual Member States of the European Union is made out of the data presented, Croatia shall grant support at approximately Finland, Ireland and the Czech Republic. Here's why I'm going to support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21337	Thank you. In an individual debate, distinguished representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21338	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. I will support the 2007 State Aid Report of the Competition Protection Agency, which has been properly prepared, analytically and includes comparative data with previous years in 2006 and 2005. The report shows that state support amounted to 8.9 billion kuna in 2007 which was 13% higher than in 2006 and 56% higher in 2006 compared to 2005. As regards the share in GDP in 2007, state support amounted to 3.3 GDP and 3.2% in 2006. The rise in state aid in 2007 is due to a significant increase in aid for agriculture and fisheries, the recovery of the steel shipbuilding sector, which is essentially waste and most of the support not only in 2007 but also in previous years. When it comes to support the so-called. horizontal objectives, they remained practically at the same level as in previous years and ranged from 820 to 930 million kuna, but it is a good thing that regional support from 150 million kuna in 2005 reached a level of 480 million kuna in 2007, and this will certainly be a trend in the coming period, given that their nature of horizontal support significantly disrupts competition and significantly strengthens the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and contributes to a balanced regional development. When supporting support is compared with support from the Member States of the European Union in 2006, it is found that Croatia grants support approximately as much as Ireland, the Czech Republic or Finland, however, the share of support in the GDP of the Republic of Croatia exceeds the amounts in the Member States of the European Union and the difference in the support structure is important. But the question is how realistic it is at this point to draw such parallels in view of specific Croatian problems, such as the shipbuilding problem to which a significant part of the total state support is waste. However, one thing is certain is that the structure of State aid will have to be significantly changed over the coming years in favour of support towards horizontal objectives, and significantly less for support granted by sectors, which is also practice in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21339	Thank you. Dear Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21340	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, I have to say in the beginning that we have nothing against the report and that it is correctly written, it is one set of statistics that is the same as it is, and I think it is a key sentence that is contained in the introduction itself, which says, "However, a high share of state support in the gross domestic product as well as the structure of state support in which sectoral support predominates indicate the need for structural reforms, namely leaving the incentive system of certain economic sectors. This too can be seen in concrete examples and in concrete figures how support, not only in agriculture and fisheries, but also in shipbuilding and industry grew in 2007, respectively. So the growth trend may be slightly smaller than last year, but it's total growth. So, every year since 2004, that share of support has increased. So the share of support at the level of 9 billion kuna, which is 3.3 according to this data is the percentage of gross domestic product, which I dare say alarmingly. We had the opportunity to listen here six months ago in a special but prepared exhibition of Deputy Prime Minister and Economy Minister Damir Polancec, who announced certain directions in the restructuring of the shipyards themselves, in the rehabilitation of the shipyard and announcements about the privatisation of certain sectors. Otherwise, the shipyard is a sector that in one way or another indirectly, means through companies that are associated with the sector employs 40,000 people. It's about 40,000 people, 40,000 human fates, 40,000 families, and it can't be easily crossed over, and I expected that some of the actions on the restructuring and rehabilitation of the shipyard would be presented in the autumn, not that we had to wait for winter here in this House of Commons. The only thing that's come now is this state aid report. Also, one worrying sector that we must take care of is the Croatian railway sector, i.e. large detachments for the Croatian railway sector. We also had in the 6th month of this year a strategy called a strategy for the development of railway infrastructure where there is a number of wish lists and what is meant to be done, less with European, more with state money in the next five-year period. At that time, we were also announced an action plan for individual procedures in the railway sector. Unfortunately, we didn't get that action plan until today. We also received this report on state aid, and I also have to refer again to this sentence, which says that abandoning the incentive system of certain economic sectors is necessary. Railway and shipbuilding. Only those two branches work together, i.e. They give the bread of 50,000 Croatian citizens who work directly related to the industry, and if we add up their families, they say over 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live only from that industry. And it is therefore very important at the moment when, I would dare say that it is alarming to offer an action plan for the rescue of the shipyard and the restructuring of the railway that has not occurred so far. What the European Union also does not recognise as classical support are these support to railways, shipyards that are supporting losers. There is no such thing in the European Union, the European Union does not recognise it and therefore requires, before joining the European Union, a solution to the problem in these sectors. What will happen to us on our way to the European Union, and how will we have to solve this subsidy problem when the European Union says a lot of such subsidies? We'll be forced to sell the national property cheaply. Cheaply sell national property, cheaply sell shipyards to sort of rehabilitate these things and that's what worries, and shipbuilding is also a historic Croatian industry, so it's done and through history, shipbuilding in Croatia and Croatia is recognizable by shipbuilding in the world, but not only that, but also strategic because there is no other product that is so complicated and that has so many parts as the shipbuilding itself has. What you should also say here is about agriculture. 3.2 billion incentives, as far as we can see here in 2007, were allocated to agriculture by quoting the text here which says: "In most parts these funds are allocated in the form of subsidies, and in the smaller part in the form of state guarantees." This means that we are subsidising small rural households, which should definitely be supported, and that is why I am very sorry that there is no one from the HSS in this debate because last time we talked about the report from the agency, the Croatian Small Economy Agency, I mentioned the following. If we have 3.2 billion support in agriculture, and only 5 billion kuna of agricultural exports, then it's ringing red that we need to change the model of agriculture and I have to say it. It seems to me that the last agriculture minister was more successful than the last one, and I think he'll be more successful than the current one, unfortunately. Because you need to leave the model of small rural households and turn to the model of rounding and competitiveness in agriculture, that's our comparative advantage. The comparative advantage of Croatia is food production, some countries cannot afford it, and due to an increase in the number of world population. Because of the changes in food habits from Asians to Africans, it happens that food prices on the world market are only rising and so will be in the future. They may come next year because of the economic crisis, but food will in any case achieve a higher price than energy. So energy and food are two branches that will mean the price of which will grow and therefore it is necessary for Croatia to define its own energy policy, I will say something about when the report of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency will be, that although it is a little late, it becomes as energy independent as possible and that as much as possible focuses on food production as a comparative advantage and that is what I said in the last debate. I would like by the end of the term of office that the amount of imports and exports of food to be at the same level, not twice as much food, or 60%, so 2.3 is the coefficient, we import than we export. This last part of which all my fellow MPs are also talking about, which is added quietly, as regards horizontal state support, which the European Union in some way supports because they do not significantly threaten competition, because in one segment they are good, because in one segment they also encourage innovation and creativity are definitely something to continue, but also increase resources. What may in some ways be small and worrying is that these assets are about the same amount year by year. When we had the Croatian Small Economy Report, I said, and now I will repeat, and that is the position of the SDP club, that it is necessary to strengthen the financing of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. At these difficult times when capital is difficult due to lack of money and on the world's money markets, it is especially necessary to strengthen the financial capacity of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which will enable our entrepreneurs especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are the most sensitive, but are the backbone of the Croatian economy, to invest, enable investment and ultimately make it possible to develop in Croatia because no one will give us money if we just don't give it. It is a policy to trust in and in its beaks, but the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development can do so if it has sufficient capacity. What I have to say for the end is...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21341	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21342	I'm just saying that I'd like to get these two key issues that employ 50,000 people as soon as possible, and indirectly...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21343	Thank you. You're out of time. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate, distinguished representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21344	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected council presidents and respected colleagues and colleagues. Let me say in my debate that this report, as such on state aids, has been done in such a good way with a large number of data. But what prompts me to this debate is this part of that report, the report says is therefore an analytical instrument to monitor the allocation of state support towards strategic economic objectives. It also points to the effectiveness of certain economic branches in view of the amount of support received and economic growth achieved. So as part of this part of what I read from this report, I would say something about support in agriculture and fisheries, support that I do not repeat here, and it is very well seen from this report that they are significant and supportive, that they as such are also rising, increasing in absolute and relative terms, and that it should normally be from what I read, that the result of these support is also a better work of a particular sector, branch economy. We also see that as far as these aids in agriculture and fisheries are concerned, we are quite high in relation to the European Union, because the European Union is 24% in the agricultural sector, while let's say some countries such as Estonia, Latvia, Finland are over 60%. Normally, this should lead to our farming and fishing beings being in a way that I don't have to say much better than they are. But in this segment, we see that we have big problems, that we have problems especially with this much resources that we invest and give in these support, which are non-refundable, which are stimulating to make production in certain agricultural branches better, better quality, to be more competitive on the market, to have enough food in the first place for us, for our population, for the tourists that we feed when they come here. But from the data that points to 9 months of imports-exports, we see that I have a feeling that we sometimes give someone else, not to our people, to our producers, but to someone who has an external product here in the form of our product, here selling it, which is actually an import product. Often here, especially by colleagues from HSS and vice president Fristic, it is mentioned that 2% has been imported in tonnes in the past nine months alone. It's 2% if we add up all of these items. However, 17% more in tonnes was imported into meat and meat products, and in dollars it was 37% or an index 137 or milk and eggs 149 index in tonnes or 140 index in import dollars. And cereal not to say that even in tonnes imported from last year's index 168% or even in the money index 230 dollars. What does that indicate? Well, it's just that meat, milk, cereal, and exactly the most support goes into that part. So where did these support end, where is this product that we produced and for which we gave money? The state of this, we see, did not give a little bit of 6%, 35%, 9th, 36% almost means of total support, and at the same time this imports are clearly getting bigger and bigger. So the question is, what is the policy of agricultural policy? Where do these funds end? And if we still have to import that much, is that groovy, I repeat that support is just going into these products that I said. I think it would be much more normal if instead of recalculating this meat of those 500 thousand pig pieces, we produced ourselves here, fed it to our own food, etc. if we had already given these support, but that we had imported them. So, one word that this is a matter of supporting and adequate realization of these aids through production is not adequate. We need to get to the point where we actually see, it would be very interesting to see just how much these importers who have imported that food, as much as they have received and as much as they are users of that support. I think I support this proposal, which was, that it would be good in those reports to see who gets those support and what amounts you and where you get those support. And if they were compared to how much more they imported the same food for which they were supported, it would be very interesting to solve the issue as such. I therefore end up thinking that these aids which, in agriculture and fisheries, have a steady trend of growth, which is visible and in order to be able, however, to receive such branches as they receive and adequately, have more adequate development and that this is exactly what we aim to do to produce this food with our food, our food, we use it, not to use imported food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21345	Thank you. And as the last individual, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21346	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Competition Protection Agency, and in fact there should be no competition, because support in some way under its structure and others actually lead to it. So when something is supported, and like these examples that have been cited by colleagues in terms of agriculture, then it's not really competition, but vice versa, is it, on the market maybe laziness. But from the report, we find out where the support went. We see that and we know it from the report. But who'd they go to? We can't see that. There was talk here of not being able to tell how much support the importers received. There are no reports here either, clearly it was not an obligation, to be seen possibly by regional self-government, as there were support for 20 Croatian counties and the City of Zagreb. According to the 2007 State aid report, total state support has reached nearly nine billion kuna. That they increased by 13% compared to 2006, compared to 2005 by as much as 77%. It is also evident that in the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia, it is 3.3% support. Which is considerably more than in the countries of the European Union, and it is visible and visible from the tables that you have attached here in the report. Therefore, in the European Union, the average share of state aid is only about 0.6% in Croatia 3.3%. If we compare the structure of state aid in Croatia with the support structure in the European Union countries, then we can also see large differences. In fact, the share of horizontal support, i.e. support for research, development, innovation, environmental protection, energy efficiency, small and medium entrepreneurship, and employment in Croatia, is when all of this is summed up from all these support, 9.2%. While the share of these support in European Union countries is climbing up to 90%. What does that tell us? This tells us that state support in our country still has a more prominent social than developmental component, which Mr. Cain confirmed with his presentation on aiding shipyards and investments, i.e. providing support would therefore be said in a bottomless bag, which is here, and the charge comes next year, already in February or March at 4.4 billion, and the rest of us have as many debts as we want. Well, then we've got to tighten the belt or the belt. So, since we're a country in transition it's kind of, sort of logical. The share of sectoral support of nearly 50%, and support for agriculture and fisheries, 36% therefore speaks about where our problems are, as the speakers said before me. It is inevitable that, in the near future, on the road to Europe that we are all looking for, we will have to change the structure of state aid, in a way that we will have to reduce sectoral support, especially for those in the shipbuilding which is being wastes by a quarter of all state support. But also in other sectors like traffic. So we will certainly determine the level of support ourselves, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Agency, but we can change the structure of the support so that in fact this is what a colleague from the SDP was talking about that the European Union will not be able to clearly fix that structural part of the support that is now structured as I have just said. In some ways we can look forward to what is a positive growth in regional support but very little and in the last two years there are something I say in a more sensitive increase and the share in total support is 5.4% of these support. This is positive because these are actually support that we can call developmental because they favour investors and contribute to reducing regional differences that are still very large in the Republic of Croatia. However, these days are precisely on the agenda of our county assemblies and budgets for the following year, showing the fiscal capacity of each of them and parallel to the rest in the Republic of Croatia. From these fiscal calculations, therefore, the capacity to receive profits is clearly evident that there are visible differences in the provision of support to certain regions or regional self-governments, so there are very large differences in this sense that certain counties have significantly more support than others. And then it is clear that Croatia is developing unevenly. This is also contributed by the support that Djuro Djakovic, the metal industry in Slavonski Brod, also had a tenth of the support that the shipyards had then would certainly not be in this state in which he is today and in which he and that the number of workers was reduced by 80% compared to 91 or 90. Local self-government and regional self-government also take certain steps and should not be ignored and also in providing support in their area, in the area of municipalities, cities and counties, and they were also increased in 2007 by 47% compared to 2006. Although most of these support wastes in the city of Zagreb, I certainly know that in other smaller areas, it is also trying to stimulate certain segments and sectors in the economy. For example, in the Brod-Posavina County from which I have been coming for several years, significant appropriations are allocated as subsidies for innovation, innovative creation and certification of systems and products and all in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the local economy. The report as a report, the statistical report is clearly unacceptable but these indications that I was talking about we would like to get a year at this same time to see how much support the importers get. And anyway, now in this crisis, it's going to be financially and economically, that these support will probably be more modest but clearly we see the structure in some other way, not only on this one that's written here, although it says it's the way and the calculation of how Europe does it, but we have our specifics that we could respect and see then a little bit as I said and who the support went and not just where they went. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21347	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21348	Fourthly, the Annual Report on State aid for 2007 is the applicant of the Competition Protection Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: "The Annual Report on State aid for 2007 is accepted by the applicant of the Competition Protection Agency." Please, who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? This Annual Report was accepted by the majority with 111 votes in favour and 2 against. ... Abstained, not against. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's against nothing. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21349	We're moving to agenda five. - Report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Law on HR and HTV programmes during the period from 3 September 2007 to 14 October 2008. - Report by the HRT Directorate on HRT's operations for 2007 Carrier: Croatian Programme Council Proposes the Report Board of the HRT Programme on the basis of Article 19. HRT law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Zdenko Leviak president of the HRT Programme Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21350	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The report you have on your benches is drawn up in agreement or made in such a way that all members of the council have participated in it and that by consensus this report is present, with this consensus of the council such a report lies before you. Since we have members of the Parliament here who, for the first time, are likely to have such a report in their hand, and the public is doing the same, I will say something in the opening of the Council session, as well as how it is organised. Council meetings are open to the public. The Rules of Procedure of the HRT Council have established the possibility of a session or part of it being closed to the public when discussing issues declared in the interest of the HRT as a business secret. Every company, every house and institution has its own business secrets and so does Croatian radio-television. During this reporting period, the Council twice took advantage of the business opportunity to close part of the session when discussing the proposal for the appointment of the director of the programme, the editor-in-chief of the information programme Croatian Television, the reasons for the resignation of the director of the Croatian Television branch. This was about information that had the status of business secrets and the council took advantage of that possibility. The meetings of the HRT Council are regularly attended by media representatives, as well as international organisations and institutions of the OSCE and the European Commission. Journals from the Council's meeting are available to the public on HRT's website. In order for the public to receive full information on the position of members of the Council on the Croatian Radio and Croatian Television programme, an integral part of the minutes from the sessions and excerpts from the phonograms when discussing the HRT and HTV programme and the adoption of programme orientations are going to the websites and they are already available tomorrow to all interested in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Since all the records of the councils and extracts on the web pages are this report, which does not contain details for which the Council has decided, discussed and so on because these details are actually on the pages that can be included and commented on. Something general about council work. At each meeting of the Council, as shown by the agendas of the Council as part of the debate on the broadcast programme between the two meetings of the Council, it discusses monitoring the programme principles. The Council analyses the programme of Croatian Radio and Television and, in addition to individual reviews of individual emissions and their quality, professionalism and assessments of whether these emissions violated the programme principles and obligations and warned those responsible for HRT according to the results. The Council of the HRT also examined, within the framework of its legislative powers in its supervisory capacity, the report of the programme directors and editors-in-chief of the Croatian Radio and Television Information Programme on the implementation of programme orientations between 30 June and 31 December 2007 and 1 January 2008 until 30 June 2008. And according to the obligations of the director of the programme and the editor-in-chief of the Croatian Radio Television programme. The law does not provide for this, but by amending and supplementing the Statutes, the Council insisted that such reports be given to monitor the Croatian Radio Television programme more regularly. As part of its legal powers during this period, the Council gave an opinion on the proposal for HTV programme orientations for the period of 10 September 2007 to 31 December 2007 and for the first time the programme orientation of HTV for the whole of 2008 containing both the winter and summer schemes and on the programme orientations of the Croatian Radio in 2008. For the first time in the Council's term of office, these opinions were accompanied by planning documents, and the council also gave a positive opinion on the rebalancing of the 2007 financial plan as well as on the proposal for a financial plan for 2008. Something about monitoring the implementation of programming principles. Despite the objections made to the HTV programme sent by members of the council, the General Council's findings are that Croatian Radio and Croatian Television have fulfilled their basic mission because they have satisfied the public's interest at national and local level in their programmes and have maintained the responsibility of representation of informative, cultural, educational and other content. The progress made by HTV in some of its programmes over the past year has been evident, and as it mainly refers to public content shows that they found their place on the 1st HTV programme, which also received its final concept and which, according to viewers' reactions, proved to be very successful. The 2nd HTV programme still examines the best options that would satisfy commercial and public interest. The remarks of the council members show that despite the improvements in HTV, it must work further, further improving the programme in a substantive sense by raising civilization and cultural levels and not rising in the fight with competition. There is also a obligation to raise professional levels of journalists and editors, respect for the programming principles and obligations set out in this law. As part of the control of the HTV implementation principles and obligations during the reporting period, the Council paid particular attention and further criticised the programme in a way that it said that there was insufficient concern in the programme for the language and speech of journalists and editors and, in that sense, did not implement the conclusion of the HRT Council of 13 April 2006. There is still not enough space for university professors, scientists and public workers outside Zagreb to participate in HTV shows in which they would have something to say as well as guests in our shows within the city of Zagreb. The programmes of scientific and educational content as well as cultural emissions are further disregarded for the recommendations of the HRT Council shall be broadcast in unused periods. That's one I'd say from the council's general grudges because it's one thing to bring the programming orientation that we bring at the beginning of the year and it's as successful as the programming scheme adapts to the programming orientation. Within the programme scheme, the Council must not be affected and it must not be affected, but it is rightly for the purpose of recommending or detecting the problems that are then encountered after such broadcasts and presence. The Council regularly insists that more attention is being taken to the cultural and civilizational level of the HTV programme, and we have had several criticisms there and I think that our observations are correctly accepted. Something about other council activities I want to highlight here, which is the implementation of Article 12. The law on Croatian broadcasting. In its powers, the Council continued to exercise and monitor the implementation of Article 12. HRT which determines the permitted duration of the promotional messages as well as the interruption of emissions by promotional messages. As already reported, you have a report on the implementation of Article 12 of the Law with the HRT Council every 3 months. Unfortunately, so far there has been no record of an excess of the permitted time. The duration of the promotional messages. The Council considers that the sanctions carried out by HRT in the implementation of those which are the cause of such overruns are not and cannot finally be resolved so that, despite the fact that, in the overall view of the overruns shown, the report for the period from February to May 2008 did not accept the addition and clarification of why these incidents took place. And something about the programme council's initiative. Members of the council noticed that, in the realisation of the HTV programme, there are so-called "HTV". Grey zones, and they refer to the use of voice machines with so-called "species". the additional value and survey of viewers and criteria for which HRT participates in humanitarian actions. The directorate of HRT is in this regard asked for an indication. The directorate of the HRT with due care has considered the warning and informed the Council that these issues will be addressed by adopting guidelines on interaction with the audience and the HRT programmes and the rules on the cooperation of HRT in humanitarian actions. So far, the Council has estimated that much more rationally that time Croatian broadcasting could have been used. Due to the numerous obligations and overloads of agendas and directorships and councils and the fact that the HRT directorate concluded that guidelines for public interaction should be conducted in a broad discussion with the programming people and the resolution of these issues of the HRT Council expects a document to come to the Council's verification by the end of the year. The HRT Council recommends programme and business leadership to be more involved in government-led action and NGOs such as Croatia's entry into the European Community, NATO accession, implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, the national drug use programme and so on. In fact, the council firmly states that this is also the obligation of Croatian broadcasting to inform, but also to educate. The HRT Council paid particular attention to reporting when it comes to children. Although the ethical code sets out how to report children, minors and other social groups. There have been errors in some parts of the program, parts of the program mainly when it comes to children. This is why a roundtable on the subject of the rights of the child and of the public television, which also includes representatives of the Croatian Parliament, is organized at the initiative of the Croatian Radio Television Council. On the round table, many issues have been clarified by this council, journalists and editors, representatives of the state's attorney, the judicial authorities, the culture ministry, and so on, and we think that after such a round table, the incidents, if we can call them that, are down to a minimum or that they are simply gone. Something about the law under which the Council of Croatian Radio Television works. I'm here for, here's the fifth time in this place, about how the law was passed. I have to say that the law as such has had some gaps, there are some things that need to be better done, but this is the law by which the Council of Croatian Radio Television has made it possible for the Croatian Radio Television Council, as the only public medium, to retain its freedom and journalistism and each other, and I think that it is one, personally, that it is one great success in the work of the Council to whom this law has made it possible and I must tell you that I am invited in 5 days in Ljubljana to both in a certain way and to manifest the application of such a law, that this and the way that Croatian Radio Television is protected is one of the positive examples that can actually continue and wish to implement some. In the end, I'll sit in your seat and wait for questions and answer questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21351	Thank you. HRT's 2007 report on HRT's business, head director of HRT, Vanja Sutlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21352	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. And this year you have a report on HRT's business, but now for 2007. It was drawn up right here as the questions, interests and your suggestions went, so according to your main expressed interests in this esteemed House. HRT continued to do positive business in 2007. He made a profit of 5.7 million kuna, although certain conditions could jeopardise this positive business result of inflation growth, indifference in the business environment, and in the house itself, primarily due to changes in the management structure of HRT during the business year. According to the tax application, and in accordance with legal obligations 77% of this amount, i.e. 4.4 million kunas, HRT has invested in the state budget as a profit tax. Although the aim of HRT as a public institution is not to gain but to fulfil public functions according to the programme principles and obligations laid down by the HRT Act in our work, we also take into account the principles of the economy, as well as all other entrepreneurs, which means that we are not spending more than what we have earned. When it comes to revenue, we achieved it with a billion of 489 million and 664 thousand kuna, which is a minimum drop of 1% compared to 2006, but about 11 million more than planned. Not all revenues fell, only those from marketing, and that's about 11%. Speaking of this type of income, I'm going to comment on some of the findings of commercial television. Not exactly their claim that public television attracted most of the marketing cake because it happened exactly the opposite. HRT has been losing part of the marketing cake for several years now, so now the share of marketing revenues is about 25%, while in better times it was also 35% of total revenues. The revenues from the 2007 tax amounted to around 1 billion kuna, increased by 5.4% compared to 2006, and participated in total revenues with 67.8%, and the increase was not only due to the increase in the tax, but also to the increase in the number of taxpayers who paid RTV tax at the end of 2007 which amounted to about a million and 200 thousand. I would point out that we do not keep all these revenues to ourselves, there are many legal obligations that HRT must finance from them from the Pluralism Facility around 28 million kuna, the Council for Electronic Media about 7.6 million kuna, and around 120 million kuna we pay for the broadcasting of the programme. As for costs, they amounted to a billion 483 million 989 thousand kuna in 2007, down from about 1% in 2006. The increase in consumer prices, i.e. inflation in 2007, was about 5.8% and this shows that we were doing everything to control costs, and that even some of us were able to reduce. We may have been able to do more, but as you know, there have been changes in HRT's top responsibilities in May, which could have resulted in internal earthquakes, organisational and business. In order to prevent this, the house first had to be put under cost control so that they had two rebalances of the financial plan. With the first rebalancing of the financial plan, we included costs that were not planned, i.e. acquisitions of film, drama, sports and other content so that we can realize so-called Summer scheme, and other rebalancing was done for the fall-winter scheme. In doing so, some of the expenses in the house were planned earlier and were able to reduce by as many as 39 million kunas. The maximum costs relate to different types of services. About 573 million kuna or 39% of all costs. In addition to the costs already mentioned in the bill, we must pay the costs, so I also now mention the broadcasting of the programme about 120 million kuna, the right to display about 70 million kuna, the cost of implementing HDLS, HUZIP, HDU about 36 million kuna, and there are other costs that we pay out of this amount, external cooperation of around 152 million kuna, property maintenance services of around 45 million kuna. We are increasingly focused on the purchase of a domestic programme for which we have singled out about 50% more than in 2006 and amounts to over 30 million kuna in 2007. Transport services have grown to 22.5 million kuna, and we have allocated about 15.5 million kuna and for various prize games. In 2007, these costs include co-production costs, i.e. external production for which we are obliged to carry out a public tender by law. In 2007, this public tender of obligations resulted in around 19.7 million kuna, or 10% of the annual production budget. We realised the same, unfortunately, at a slightly smaller amount than 15.22 million kuna or 77.25% of the obligation. I have to say the following. The Ministry of Culture opened a tender for the drama documentary program, which meant a commitment of 16.23 million kuna for HRT, but we failed to implement this amount as a whole because some producers were unable to close their financial structures of individual projects as well as the death of some authors. For the involvement of external... companies for technical services HRT has opened a tender in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, and is realised in the amount of slightly less than 2 million kuna. Only as a note to this fact that this is neither a tendency nor an intention, in 2008, HRT planned for external production, so co-production based on public tenders amounted to HRK 34.8 million and 15% of the 77-year budget of the programme's production, although the obligation was significantly lower, about 22 million. However, the realization will be even bigger, so until 2008, in 2008, we are at an end and we can say that this is more or less a realisation. We made co-productions with the Ministry of Culture worth 15.64 million kunas, and we obtained various external productions through exclusively public tenders for about 40 million kunas, drama programs, entertainment programs and remained in a somewhat reduced supply of technical services compared to the previous year, so millions and 780 thousand kuna. And this is about our efforts to make what is in some way the biggest public, make it extremely transparent and these jobs that we do with different external entities primarily through a public tender, even though we are not obliged to do so above what the law provides. HRT also hired an external commercial audit for the 2007 Financial Report on the basis of a public tender for VDO audit Zagreb. The audit found that the financial report of the quotation provides a true and fair representation of the financial position of the HRT on 31 December 2007 and its financial performance and its cash flow. In the review report, the part relating to our obligation to apply the Public Procurement Act and that part, compared to 2006, is shown by a small number of shortcomings and failures, but with no intention of bypassing the law. In this segment, the internal audit continuously carried out surveillance. We have no written commendations, there are those oral public procurement offices that HRT is in the application of the Public Procurement Act if not the best, then at the top of an orderly obligation to apply the law. And finally something about staff, workers or external associates, everything is said, the result of the total of this particular work. On 31 December 2007, the HRT was employed by 3692 workers who had an average salary of around 6.200,00 kuna. If taxes and income tax are excluded from that amount, as is the case with average wage statistics in Croatia, our average salary is about 4.900,00 kuna, according to professional publication, accounting and finance number 3. The cost of external cooperation, and without it cannot be our programs, there are many authors, artists, actors, performers. In 2007, we began to control more strictly than before in order to cut the total costs in this year 2008. We were unable to fully influence all business processes because a lot was inherited, so business in 2007 is a kind of transitional period which continues with even clearer objectives in 2008. During this period, we also started with the creation of a long-term strategy primarily focused on the integration of business processes and their rationalisation and optimisation, especially when it comes to production, cost, new organisation and wage system, which will produce first full results during the following year 2009. By focusing on our own production and production based on public competitions, we want to create or perhaps better say return the lost glow especially to the permanent production works of local authors. This year 2008 we consider the coming and early period of the new medium-term development plan of HRT, which by 2012 would be restructured into a strong public electronic multimedia service that will know and be able to meet all the new challenges and demands of the public and media environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21353	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? Information, information and media? Gender equality? The board president, Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21354	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Director, the chairman of the program board. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 12th session the report on the work of the Croatian Radio and HTV Programme Council and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out in the Law on HRT programmes of the Croatian Radio and HTV and the Report of the Agency for Business for 2007 submitted by the HRT Programme Council. The basic reference to the report is that the part which speaks of the implementation of the programme principles is general, unrealized and with doubtful assessments that are not adequately reasoned and reasoned. Much more space has been devoted to the financial report. In particular, the Committee referred to the obligations laid down in the Law on Gender Equality. In this law, Chapter 7 entitled "Media" requires the obligation of the media to promote the development of awareness of gender equality through software content, programming bases, software orientations and only regulatory acts. It is also said that public representation and representation of women and men are forbidden in an offensive and demeaning or humiliating way in view of gender and sexual orientation. The debate noted that there are too few television content that promote gender equality, tolerance and non-violence. There's no program missing on female everyday life, positive role models. Furthermore, it was stressed that public television should be in the service of education and entertainment of an appropriate level. There is also a reference to the technical equipment of the regional correspondence offices of Croatian radiotelevision. It supports the establishment of a kind of education centre at HRT that will allow continuous education and training of employees. After the debate, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw conclusions. A report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and the implementation of programme principles and obligations shall be adopted, a report by the Directorate on the operation of the HRT for 2007 and the third committee shall request that the HRT Programme Council, in particular, consider the application of the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality which speaks of the obligation of the media to promote the development of awareness of women and men through programme content and guidance and self-regulatory acts, and report to the Committee no later than the end of March 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21355	Thank you. Controversy? Clubs? Mr. Representative Boris Kunst's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21356	Dear Vice President, Director of Croatian Radio Television, President of the Programme Council, fellow MPs. So from the report on the work of the Council of Croatian Radio Television and the implementation of the programming principles and obligations established by the Law on Croatian Radio and Croatian Television Programmes in the period from 3 September 2007 to 14 October this year, the general evaluation of Croatian Radio passed the exam, i.e. in all segments with some minor observations, completed the programming tasks. The work of the Programme Council was successful as visible through its responsible and quality work. Looking through the prism of the right to information, the transparency of the session of the Council of the Croatian Broadcasting Council, which is open to the public, and the minutes from the session are immediately published on the Croatian Radio-Television website. As far as Croatian television is concerned, it should be pointed out that because of the importance and position that Croatian television is taking in media space, public television is far more exposed to public criticism than other televisions. And it's nothing wrong, because the public is the best qualitycorator. Regardless of all the objections and perceived non-professionalities observed by members of the Council of the Croatian Television during the debate on the implemented programme of Croatia, Croatian television has made significant positive moves in the quality of programme orientations and software content in recent years. This report on the work of the Croatian Radio and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations established by the Law on Croatian Television as well as on the programmes of Croatian Radio and Croatian Television, which is the fifth edition of the Programme Council, submitted to the Croatian Parliament in its term of office since 2003. to remind that year, the Council of Croatian Radio Television did not accept the report on its work, significant progress was made, and it is also evident that there are still certain interferences in the quality of communication and professional cooperation within the information programme of HTV. After all, we have been in recent months, and during one period and every day we have witnessed media reports about the violated professional and inter-human relations in the information programme of Croatian television. Although the Croatian Radio programme is assessed positively, the more it works in the environment of strong competition, the assessment I agree with personally is that it can still be improved. Unlike Croatian Radio, the programme of public television is much larger because of the public service that Croatian television has and influences the audience that is intended for us. In the last year in the Croatian Television programme, progress has been evident especially in public content shows that have been established on the first programme, as the viewers themselves have followed with positive reactions. The second programme is still looking for an ideal formula for a merger of public and commercial interest. In particular, it should be pointed out that while Croatia must continue to work to improve the programme, it has not succumbed to the fight against competition in order to improve ratings, and has reduced civilization and cultural criteria, as well as professional standards of journalists and editors. However, Croatian television should remain a leading medium that will affect other media with high professional standards, so it is not good that the information programme usually starts with a black chronicle. This phenomenon has recently been almost domesticated in the information emissions of all electronic media. In this context, it is particularly important to highlight the Council's conclusion that even more concerns about the language, speech of journalists and editors should be taken into account, and to broadcast emissions of scientific educational content in more appropriate terms. It is necessary to pay far more attention to the suggestions and topics proposed by the viewers, because Croatian broadcasting exists because of them and none other than the other way around. And by the way, they are the best quality of the program and indicators of the value of Croatian broadcasting. In order to continue to maintain the leading position in the field of electronic media, Croatian broadcasting must be a permanent investment in the improvement of its employees and their education and be a competitive and financially stable medium that addresses all citizens, regardless of age or purchasing power. Public broadcasting services are more needed in Europe today than ever as guarantees of free public opinion and are a sign of the maturity of their democracy. That the European Union is aware of these important roles of public services is best confirmed by the Amsterdam Protocol that came into force in '99. the year from which four funding principles can be suggested today, based on the future of public services, which is stability, independence, proportionality and transparency. The improvement in the transparency of the work of Croatian television is also evident in the launch of public procurements for the purchase of television programs and services from independent production houses, thus minimising the possibility of calling because of corruption or suspected decisions by Croatian leaders. Unfortunately, too long advertising blocks are still a problem as well as hidden advertising that is still present on Croatian television. Such phenomena in Croatian TV programmes should also be reduced to the lowest possible measure in the future. It is hardly possible to achieve this overnight but it should be a model and a world-renowned BBC that has no adverts but therefore has a huge base of subscribers that brings it an annual budget that can be compared to the state budget of smaller countries that allows it to be top quality of the programme. Our citizens participate in around 70% by paying radio television fees in the total revenues of Croatian television and marketing accounts for 30% of total revenues and this ratio is about the same as in most public radio and television services of European countries. As for Croatian Radio-Television in 2007 itself, Croatian Radio-Television continued to operate positively and reached nearly 1.5 billion kunas already mentioned here, while next year Croatian Radio-Television plans to increase the flow of revenues from radio-television fees or from marketing to cover the costs of new channels of sports and news channels, and plans for new employment of highly qualified experts, journalists, technicians, economists, lawyers and the like. The Council is of the opinion that a more targeted strategy should be addressed to revenues from marketing rather than to television fees, leading to greater ratings, targeted audiences, better quality programmes and the production of their own programmes to become an export product. I personally believe that the greatest progress as well as the reputation of Croatian radio-television would have been achieved through greater production of its own programmes because the increase in marketing will increase the number and length of advertising blocks that are now too long. And the most unpopular move would certainly be at this social point an increase in the fee paid by citizens for Croatian television. The theme of elections is particularly important for all the media in Croatia, which was current last year but which will be current and in the following year raises the issue specifically discussed in the Croatian Radio-Television Report is the current way of monitoring election campaigns in electronic media. The current rules on the conduct of electronic media with national concessions in the Republic of Croatia have shown that during the election campaign they do not allow the electoral body to receive complete information. The Council estimated that the monitoring of the election campaign on Croatian TV was a conceptual failure, especially in terms of election night and election shows violated the rules on determining covert advertising in Croatian Radio-Television programmes. When it comes to the subject of the elections, I particularly appreciate the position of the Croatian Radio and Television Council as well as the editor-in-chief of the Croatian TV information programme that no policy will be allowed to be mixed in the work of Croatian television as well as the editorial policy of the entire house or Croatian television. It is good that the Croatian Radio and Television Council also pointed to the existence of gray zones that you spoke about in the realization of the Croatian TV programme and as regards the use of voice machines with so-called added value in surveying the viewer and criteria according to which Croatian Radio-Television participates in humanitarian actions. Finally, it should be repeated that the Croatian Radio and Television Council, which is visible from the reports that are ahead of us but also from a number of articles in various media that we could read and watch in the past year, was really an active monitor in the work of Croatian Radio and Television, although in the time that we should have even more initiative and creativity in order for the organisation and quality of the Croatian Radio and Television programme to be even better. For these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept the Croatian Radio-Television Report on the implementation of Croatian Radio and Croatian Television between 3 September 2007 and 14 October 2008 and the Report of the Croatian Radio-Television Directorate on the operation of Croatian Radio-Television for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21357	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21358	Mr. Chairman, honored guests, colleagues and colleagues. The topic of HTV and society relations through the Parliament is a political topic, so let me first put a few political views on behalf of the SDP club. The relationship between Parliament, state and public television has passed several stages of the happy or unhappy but in some ways we can say that the maturation of democracy and maturation in some way of public criteria has gone parallel and that today we still have the Law on HRT as one of the oldest laws in the practice of passing legislation in this House. He has gone through various stages, stages of criticism, stages of support, stages of noticeing certain defects, and I hope or believe that it has now come to a stage of understanding and then the possibility of upgrading for a new time with those qualities that should yet be recorded as new practice and new problems. What is the first relationship, which would underline and concerning political issues related to this report, is that the internal dynamics of the council are such that it is absolutely not noticeable from this report that any political division within the council has decided either the character of this report or the different attitudes of individuals who can be monitored in phonograms from this council that this political presence is something that separates the council. The Council has shown that we were also hoping for one internal coherence in decision-making and that internal coherence puts it in a position to be supported by this Assembly and the character of this report itself, which is critical of the need to understand and the next, and that is that acceptance by the Assembly and by the SDP Club of the reports of this council, the HRT Programme Council at the same time and acceptance of the very critical relations of this council against the whole series of events within HTV itself. In our discussions and in our discussions, it is sometimes not taken into account enough so that in some ways the councils, management, editorial structures and so on are identified as one and the same. No, I don't. The Council is there to ensure the legality of work, to ensure respect for programming principles, to develop programming principles. That's not a supervisory authority. It doesn't even have any ingenuity, and it has some bans on being something that will replace editorial policy. I'm asking that this be understood primarily. So support for the council's own report and support for the critical elements of this report in relation to a whole series of elements in the behaviour of this house. I would particularly underline what I think is also not one of the currents of this council, which is respecting Article 19(2). The HRT Act, which explicitly prohibits myself, to cut short so as to use that term to implicate people from the council into individual emissions, in a way suggestive of the impact on editors. We didn't have any such reports, we know of such cases or are recorded here, which was actually a common case before, and very often in those who criticise the council when they think the council members are there to make the program like this and like that. They are in favour of criticising the shows that have been seen in order for this criticism to affect the emissions that are created to be better quality, but not to, to carry out their intensities in the framework of the HRT programming orientations. This is also important to say that this is a big difference compared to earlier practice that we have changed by law since 2003 and in which it was not, so we had in this House which could testify and the idea that only the Council of HRT is some kind of political body that then comes with the authority of the political body as a political entity within Croatia. What matters is that we have a council that worked very well and that we have a critical report. It is understood that there is also a way of choosing this council that may not satisfy all or that perhaps many will be left in great dissatisfaction so that there is no political majorisation in it and that then also this political, inability of political majorisation is positively reflected in certain coherence in making decisions themselves. There is one big aspect, however, that is highlighted here and which I would particularly point out, which is that the council or any other body should resolve some of the very serious issues that have not been settled in an adequate way on television. The elements concerning the working rights of the council are not for them, there is no ingenuity and they are very often present in public as major problems. The external production criteria, the allocation of external production funds, are actually non-transparent. So we have cases that are probably many of us as individuals, and I am, but probably many others caught up with incredible information about abuses on television and that we can never really determine whether it is or not. It is an interesting attitude which he mentioned and which he mentioned, mentioned by the Council, which is that precisely because of the unforgiving situations that arise from the call of the leaders of HTV because of corruption and which has been discussed in the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament... /The CROAT report does not change./... the CROAT report and that the council has asked the State's Attorney to determine the facts and initiate the appropriate procedures. Who did not notice this well then may have missed to see a very, very important battle led by the council. It's not a battle against fiction, it's a battle to see if there really are indications that we as individuals are informed of from always unofficial sources where we can't distinguish gossip from truth or such indications don't exist. I think that the time has come in these aspects and we have talked about it, it is also spoken on the Committee on Media, Information and Media, which is that maybe one body that can't be the Supervisory Board because it is therefore a public institution but it can be some administrative expert council that would help a council that in this way and is not meant to function in such control aspects to take the appropriate responsibilities and that in some way clears up the situations in which we are forced to intervene without being able to have qualified data at the same time. I think that the whole series of observations is critical in this report regarding the achievement of the HRT's programming foundations regarding what most of us listen to and in parliamentary debates, committee discussions or debates in our clubs, which is therefore regularly and regularly mentioned certain problems that are repeated. Don't raise in a commercial fight with competition. It was one of the most common criticisms independent of the club representatives where it was mentioned, and now we have heard in terms of the kind of commercialisation in which court chronicles replace the first headlines of political I mean problems, and why they... And so on and so forth, they're pulling television, public television away from its public content. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're still saying you don't care enough about language. So I think it's worth hearing, I think when this practice is going to change what seems to change. There is still insufficient respect for what is the main content of public television, which is the expansion of space to those prominent scientists, public, cultural and other workers who can competently talk about many things than we are spinning around in a circle that actually narrows down the public influence and the quality of public influence and public width in relation to the possibilities for some topics to be thematicised and to be processed. The programmes of scientific and educational content as well as cultural emissions and further non-compliance with the recommendations of the councils in relation to their transmission in inappropriate terms. There is insufficient attention to the cultural and civilization level of the HTV programme. The issue of concept relations related to HRT plus has not been resolved. Unsolved questions are how to establish a second journal. Therefore, the adoption of the HRT Council report raises serious questions whether it will repeat itself in this aspect and next time or be able to say that some of these problems have been solved for a future report. What I think particularly bothers many people, and what I would like to point out, is that when it comes to retaining public television obligations related to external programmes and 10% of external production, this quota was not initially respected as a minimum. It now seems that the program will go on and it will be sooner and it will be bigger, but at the same time it is the source of all these awkward situations in which we don't really know what money is spent on, in which business is amazing information in other media about television and in which we don't know who to trust. We can all accept the existence of business secrets on television, it is understandable that part of the tactics of the Rules of Procedure and so on, and public television can be a business secret, but a way of financing, funding, funding criteria, publication of all the requirements for productions and, at the same time, public presentation of the criteria for why some of them got and how much they got, is something that absolutely belongs to the public field and that television would have to work. These funds are public funds, the Parliament is in charge of taking care of them and taking care of them, and this can't be the subject of any secret business because such secrets have no ministries or anyone else. It's all being decided through competitions, but then these results are also published, so they don't leave doubt and leave the possibility of interpretations that there are very many. Excessing the permitted duration of promotional messages and covert advertising are not just some minor failures mentioned in this report. They are very, very big failures because this television that we care about and where we defend its public character put in a defensive position against all those who don't actually have those privileges that public television has to have a subscription and that through that subscription can achieve what others do through marketing. I would not agree with the previous formulation that it would be good for marketing to take more because it is a tendency of public television if it is at least listening to what they intend to do in Sweden and elsewhere, in fact that public television, if it has large funds from subscription, and it has huge funds from subscription to completely even give up advertising and breaking programs and intensity is that, and I don't mean marketing. We are pleased that you are in some way leading this marketing struggle because in this situation it is probably not possible to leave the whole field, but I think that the perspective of public television is that it is completely independent of all those interests in which it has already succumbed to many other media spaces, including other televisions, which is that we no longer distinguish their orientations from interest, including economic interests, and the political interests of their owners or those they depend on as advertisers. Advertisers have nothing to do with public television policy and therefore the trend of insurance through tax did not have the same thing, it is contradictory in some way of achieving security, additional security of television from marketing. He is needed, but he is not a quality to be spoken of as something extremely desirable. The set of election laws and public TV behaviours in connection with the elections, which is of great interest to us, and we are interested in the way these sessions are transferred here, and it is also proposed to reconsider in some way, since we are being shortened in time, allow us, then I will ultimately reduce what I wanted to say, and this is therefore that it is not appropriate for public television with one diary to appear in terms of joint market research when, at the same time, public television is something that is separate from that market, and when that diary, one of the journals that comes from that concert that has the highest concentration on the market, so this is a serious one of the disciplines that you have also received from the council and which I think totally fits what needs to be taken into account. Let me conclude with just one sentence, Mr. President. HRT is the only medium that has not been privatised out of ownership interests, it is the flow of democracy in Croatia, it is not perfect. The report we accept is simultaneously critical of him, but he is in some way in a dynamic development and relationship and in this sense and with these reserves we will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21359	Thank you. National Minority Representatives' Club, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21360	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Director of HRT, the President of the Programme Council. The 5th report is presented to the Croatian Parliament by the Croatian Council on its work, programming principles and obligations under the 2003 HRT Act. The insistence on respecting the Law on HRT every day becomes increasingly important in the development of HRT as a public media and Croatian civil society, at least this is how HRT emphasizes it. While commercial television in the war for viewers is often deafened by some basic ethical principles of modern civil society, laws that regulate media space are also deafened. HRT doesn't do that or maybe I'll repeat that HRT insists on respecting the law. As this is then possible, 5 years later, 5 years after the law was passed again on behalf of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, I must repeat that national minorities are not satisfied. On the contrary, they are very unsatisfactory that neither Croatian broadcasting nor the Croatian Government implements the Law on HRT, in particular Article 5(4), because there is no information in the languages of national minorities, and we have not even achieved 17 years of the existence of an independent Croatian state in the 1990s. In order for the assessment not only to be ours, if the assessment were not just a member of the national minorities, we also pointed to a report on the implementation of the Charter on the Protection of Regional and Minority Languages, which Croatia has ratified since '97. the years and on the basis of which the third monitoring was carried out this year. As far as public television is concerned, the situation since the first round of surveillance hasn't changed, and I'm going to repeat what I said about this pay phone, and unfortunately I'm going to repeat it, so let's make it cry. Prism is still the only television show for national minorities. It's shown once a week in the same format for the last 15 years. Because of its format, the prism provides minority languages with an opportunity for almost symbolic exposure on public television because no language allows the development of an independent and otherwise significant presence. To this end, users of a specific regional minority language cannot know with certainty whether their language will appear in a certain "Prisms" or if it will, when. The presence in the means of public communication has decreased in the case of certain languages compared to the situation before the Homeland War. Here we appeal to the chronicles of six protected languages that were in Croatia until the 1990s. Taking into account today's opportunities in the field of public communication and the growing importance of public messages in modern society, as well as raising public awareness of the minority population, we believe that public television has not also fulfilled its obligation. HRT has not fulfilled its obligation to create programming principles under the HRT Act, where HRT is obliged to produce or publish emissions intended to inform members of national minorities in the languages of national minorities. This also violates the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, in particular, I stress Article 18. These days, a report by the Government on the implementation of the Convention on the Protection of National Minorities where responsibility and information is attempted exclusively to be transferred to the Council for Electronic Media, i.e. to the Fund for the Encouragement of pluralism and the development of media diversity. The fact that the fund has 3% of the funds of the subscription fee. The fact is that some funds are approved for so-called. minority emissions, but there is no feedback that funds have been used to produce software content for minorities in minority languages or are directed elsewhere, because unfortunately, minorities have not accepted these programmes as their own or most often do not. The fact is that HRT is public and national broadcasting as we often point out. The fact is that it has the role of information, education, entertainment as some stress it, which is why we pay the fee. And national minorities pay the fee, and minorities have contributed to the assessment that Croatia in the European Union has been assessed as a country with a high degree of respect for human rights and we rightly expect parts of the law to be implemented in part of minority rights. The National Minorities Club will not support the HRT Programme Council report, but will support the HRT Business Director's 2007 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21361	Thank you. HNS MPs' club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21362	Mr. Vice President, honored guests, colleagues and colleagues. To begin with on behalf of the HNS Club, I am pleased that this is the last report relating to such strange dates and that if we believe what we have received in our materials related to this point, the future report of the council as well as the report of the directorship will be received for calendar years, not divided into summer and winter schedules of the programme. Whoever carefully read this report can call it some sort of chronicle of good intentions and thin results. In my opinion, this is not an accident but is the result of a kind of embedded error or the result simply of the choice of councils and powers and the way the council works. I'll come back to that later on in this presentation. Unlike my colleague Vujic, who I often agree with, in this case, I do not agree with him that political divisions are not seen in the work of the council. Just the other way around. If you look at the minutes from the council session, you can clearly see the political division. You have six members of the council who always discuss very commendably about cooperation with the Directorate, about the progress the HRT makes from year to year as a public medium and you have five council members who mainly question and criticise what is happening. Therefore, it is obvious and recognizable that division within the council itself and in some way speaks positively and I would say about the council that, in spite of its competence, it has been able to carry out its work largely within such or containing such division. The second problem seems to me to stem from a major gap between perception, importance and strength and the influence that the HRT Council should have or how the public experience the influence and role of the HRT Council and the actual powers and instruments of action that the law gives to that council. The content of the HRT Council shall be able to participate or influence at two times if we exempt from the Staff Decisions, so it is first supervised by the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law and, in the event of their non-compliance, by the Director-General of HRT, etc. And secondly, it monitors the implementation of programming principles. And secondly, it gives an opinion on the programme's orientation of radio and television. In general, and very indeterminately, to what extent the council in any way can effectively change the situation or in fact dispose of any kind of serious correction, although, of course, in the perception of the public, the council is seen as an institution, and this is seen by the type of complaints, appeals and interpretations that come and are directed towards the council, it is seen in the public as a key body and a key body as regards some sort of programme orientation, and so, if you want the concepts of the programme on Croatian radiotelevision. As a result of this position of the Council, and I warn that the HRT Council is actually an extended hand of Parliament. The way in which Parliament as the top representative body of the Croatian public, and the Croatian public here contributes with slightly more than a billion kuna to the financing of this operation. So about a crumb less than 1% of the budget, with all the taxes that the citizens of this country pay even a little less than 1% of the total budget of the Republic of Croatia for this institution. And it is our responsibility as Parliament and as representatives of these people, and we have our responsibilities through the HRT Council. Let me warn you of a few things that this report by the HRT Council warns about and some of them are already mentioned by my colleagues who spoke before me. The Council believes in this report that the programme does not care enough about the language and speech of journalists on HTV, but nothing is done in two half years. The Council shall adopt a recommendation on more appropriate terms for emissions of scientific educational content and emissions from culture, but after that nothing shall happen. It is only found at one of the council meetings that the director of the HTV programme is in charge. Thirdly, the Council finds that there is not enough attention to the cultural and civilization level of the HTV programme, but in its report it finds that nothing has happened except good wishes. The Council concludes that the obligation of journalists and editors is a constant improvement in order to raise the professional level of their work. However, the only item of planned expenditure on HTV in which the funds remained neutral is professional training. HTV spent a third, and Croatian worked a little more than a quarter of the planned funds for professional training. The Council notes that they have not received any programme orientations to express their views on the implementation of the programme's programming principles on HRTplus, although the programme is also part of the HTV programme. But regarding that finding, nothing further. It is also visible in this report when the Council discusses the implementation of Article 11. The HTV Act on the obligation of HTV to order at least 10% of the TV programme from independent production companies or 10% of the annual budget for the production of the TV programme, shall be spent for that purpose. In this part of the Council's report, it notes that it hopes that this year the programme's order under this article will be more than 10%. In this regard, the Council has asked the State's Attorney General to establish the facts and initiate appropriate procedures, as well as regarding the foreign or foreign production activities, and to point out different occasions for some of the prominent names of Croatian journalism from Croatian broadcasters themselves, such as Stankovic, Sprajc, Latin, but no information has been received from the Council's state attorneys. What about the procedure, whether it was started, was not launched, whether or not the case is being investigated, where it came from. The Council therefore responded to public warnings and certain Croatian journalists and to a vague and non-transparent situation related to external and internal production, but did not receive any information from the state's attorney. The colleagues' promiscuous messages were spoken of, the council warned of the case, so commercials more than what was defined as the maximum in one hour, but other than the warning about it, nothing happened either. Of all the HTV shows and programmes in last year's council in its report, the problem of which only mentioned "Latinica" was brought up by the relevant conclusions. I said earlier that the relationship in the council is 6:5, very hard and regular. Of everything that's been concluded, and in accordance with the results of the other conclusions, or here, I'd say fortunately, it didn't do anything. On the other hand, it was not discussed in the council's report, at least it does not say that it was discussed, in the same context as the "Latinica" debated, of some other information-political shows, in the first place, those most visible but "Dnevnik" in half eight or "Open". This Parliament, as well as the Council alone, has tried to enrich national minorities with new content, to introduce emissions for minorities in minority languages, in particular to the conclusions of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. After all these years as my colleague heard on behalf of the National Minorities Club, there's only a show called Prizma. Everyone thinks the show is very good, but it seems to me that this show is more informed by the national majority than by the national minorities. So the show more informs the national majority about the different events in the area of issues related to national minorities, before it deals with promoting language, culture, particularities, and the wealth of natural national minorities in each society. The Council in the session, from the report to the report, notes that something should be done with the regionalisation of HTV, more attention and funds to strengthen regional centres as well as Croatian Radio and produce more regional programmes. I will probably read the next report in this problem, however. In the opinion of the HNS Club on the last period not tied up now and something not mentioned now in this report, and perhaps more attention should be paid to it, it has recently been noted in the editorial policy on HTV that the increased influence of politics and increased influence of political lobbies, programmes especially in information policy programmes and emissions. On the other side of production programmes account for slightly less than 40% of the total broadcast programmes on Croatian TV. As I have already mentioned 68% of the total funding, the total money the HRT receives is therefore a huge Croatian financier who is subscribers, so Croatian citizens. And in that sense, the citizens of Croatia should have a slightly more significant impact on how the whole thing works, and that is, of course, our job here. The report of the Directorate mentions, of course, the financial situation and the financial report. Because at the end of my time, I'm not going to go into the details of that, except to say that last year, the biggest part of the expenditure concerned services 39% and employee costs 32.5%. So it's obvious that the number of employees has increased by 32, and it hasn't been reduced by what it says here. Clearly, then, there is also something to be done in this area. Finally, we at the HNS Club think, and I don't think that this has been consistently implemented, that we need to distinguish our assessment and satisfaction or dissatisfaction with editorial policy and even the programs on HTV. and, on the other hand, the Council's report. The Council's report points to a large number of these shortcomings, only to a large extent its warning went unimportant and modified. In this regard, regardless of the observations that the report is not sufficiently dedicated to the HRT Council, we believe that it has been pointed to a whole series of problems and that the council has indeed responded throughout the whole series of problems. The fact that it didn't have any practical conjecture is part of the law. And therefore, the HNS club will support the report by the Council of the Croatian Radio Television, which was submitted here. And I have to say that in these difficult and frustrating conditions, I am using this opportunity to thank Mr. Leviaq and the council members, not to be dissipated and yet try to do something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21363	Thank you. Club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21364	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the Croatian Radio Television, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. Clearly, the IDS will also support this report, no. But I think we should also talk openly about opportunities on Croatian television. You see, no one in this country is afraid to talk openly about Vice President Seks, President Mesic, what I know, Mr Sanader, etc., but in Croatian Radio Television, and this shows all these discussions so far, and to God, mine, too, there will always be one particular restraint, reserve, caution, restraint, not to say one particular species, let's say this kind of political fear. I don't think opportunities in Croatian broadcasting are ideal. Maybe this statement will cost me. I may be speaking against myself, but opportunities in Croatian broadcasting should also be changed. I think there's a lot of responsibility for these opportunities and the principalship. Why? Because I said opportunities aren't just good. I think that Croatian broadcasting often becomes a medium that just almost acts as a political body that takes care of the one who is in power and the one who will be in power the next day. But we're going in this order now. Is it true that the principalship has now bought that Volkswagen "Fetn" and for the same Croatian broadcasting had to give, I don't know, 100,000 euros. Consider that money for the car is set aside by a Croatian minister. Croatian broadcasting would rightly dismember him. Your predecessor, Mr. Galic, wanted that audition, he actually got an audition without leather covers, so then he had to change it. Why? Because he was driving a dog on the back of his lap. Today he is an ambassador to Paris, and some ministers have gone from dog to dog to cat. Is it true, Mr. Sutlic, that hundreds of people receive more than ministers on Croatian television? Is it true, too, but these are people who are pulling us by the sleeve from Croatian TV, so it tells us that there is no more nepotism than on Croatian television. Then they mention who they sell shows to, programs, etc. It all comes from your television. Is it true that every employee, we can talk about it. Croatian TV, for example, has free parking. When did one of you come in front of the TV and pay for the parking lot? For parking, I have the best idea. It would be best if we moved the Parliament there to Prisavlje in one tent to that parking lot and then we could just solve it. Why am I saying that? I'm saying you just don't have to break the dignity of this house in every way. There's no one here, no one has a diary, no phone, no card, etc. What am I saying? That many journalists in Croatia are radio-television but also in other media perhaps in a better position than ministers. But obviously no one in this material is interested. I don't care either, but I think we should talk about it the same way. If Croatian Radio Television hadn't spent it I dare say, and that's what I'm interested in, some of the staff changes in the question of whether HDZ would retain power. In order for the opposition to cope in times of this crisis, that's another question now. The second thing I want to say is this report concerns the period 3.9.2007-14th of October 2008. Parliamentary elections were held during this period. If any political party was knowingly denied, I'll say it was IDS. That's another reason why I'm talking like this. Of all those shows, the encounter after the Dnevniks and there were nine, ten, eight IDS were only invited once. The only criterion I suppose should be these seats in the Assembly and IDS is then and today there are more mandates than there have been many parties that have appeared there. But let's let it go now. At the annual level, HRT is revenueing 1.5 billion kuna and this 2009 is actually supposed to be as much as a billion and 700 million kuna. This of the TV subscription of this one pair of taxes Croatian radio-television does not receive 1 billion kuna I do not know how it would all work and it is also true. Personally, I also believe that this mentioned tax is to be shared on all Croatian radios and on all Croatian television stations with similar ratings and obedience. This is the state of HRT's monopoly as it guards some other industries in the Republic of Croatia, and then it can always be clearly shown profit. However, which would now be Croatia's radio-television on one real market, as much as one such body would endure. I know that those best editors that are often seen in neighbouring countries from Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, too, would have easily employed themselves. Equally as what, it is my court, Croatian Radio-Television is leading its policy of preference, let's say some parties are not inclined to do so. The radio should be a model for Croatian radio television. I understand that Croatia's radio-television also has extra-commercial obligations for 1 billion kuna to understand these extra-commercial obligations would probably take over all the televisions that operate in the Republic of Croatia. So we have this political information programme of religious culture, drama programme, programme for culture, children, youth, documentary programme, entertainment programme, mosaic program etc. What is visible in particular to us who follow RAI that many shows are being copied, OK, these are the most visible and let our shows do so well, but what is a bit surprising is that the most visible author shows from Croatian radio and television are being abolished there, going to other countries, for example one Pyramid, and there it becomes one of the most visible shows clearly along with one unrepeated Milic, Latina, Sunday at 2, sometimes Dnevnik, etc. On page 18 of this report, income and profit and loss accounts for 2007. A billion kuna revenue has been made, the tax revenue is a billion 10 million kuna, the revenue from the promotion of 365 million kuna, the remaining is 82 million kuna, the net profit before the tax of 5.6 million kuna, the profit after the tax of 1.2 million kuna. What's interesting to mention as well? All parties to the election in 2007 when our revenues were 30, 40, 50% higher than they would otherwise be next year or what they were in 2007 achieved 180 million kuna. So HRT's income is 8 times higher than all Croatian parties. And why the credibility of Croatian politics when I claim that in this political life this Parliament is a better place than any other in the Republic of Croatia. There's actually no other one, and it can't be. If we question the credibility of the Parliament and it often seems, why does it seem so? Well, because none of the parliamentary representatives or any congregation body threatens any simple danger and God forbid to threaten, and then we simply tear down the pillars of this state and some political credibility and so forth. And that's actually not good. For the end, I'll say this. This home with 100 million kunas of annual income or 15 times less than Croatian radio-television I will say is a sweet mother to everyone else and should not be Satanized by that home. Clearly, the weaker Parliamentism is then the stronger the capital, then the executive power is stronger and the media influence is thus far stronger than it should be. But also, I'll say it openly. Not all power at this point in the Parliament as it tries to show itself in public is in executive power, capital and media, which some figures show. And until the Parliament begins to rule clearly for all will be called upon. Everyone else will pick up the creams and the representatives of Boston. But it is in some way also a defeat for that democracy, and that may change in this country if MPs were directly elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21365	Thank you. 17.54 timed out for a real debate of ten minutes on this wheel. Ms. Mariana Petir's club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21366	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, editor-in-chief of HTV, President of the Programme Council. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the report on the work of the Croatian Programme Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law in the Croatian Radio and HTV programmes between 3 September 2007 and 14 October 2008 and the HRT Management Report on HRT operations in 2007. What we want to point out at the HSS Club is that HRT's work should be seen through its role as a public service and a representative socio-economic moment and its position in the future. What does that really mean? Two terms are crucial in the debate on HRT, which is competition and ratings. First of all, I want to say a few words about competition. Does HRT have any competition in the territory of the Republic of Croatia? HTV is competition with Nova TV and RTL and Croatian Radio: Open, National Radio and other radio stations with national concessions. So all the competitions to HTV and Croatian Radio are actually commercial media funded mainly on the basis of sales of advertising space, and as such, they are also forced to adapt their business but also software policy to these trends. Their market position defines them as entities that in some way wanted not to depend on consumer mentality and they often do not have a maneuvering space in which they could show greater engagement for so-called. non-commercial or socially important topics. That's why there's HRT. HRT is a public medium while the rest of the media are commercial. Its importance and role are incomparable to other media. How can we even combine HRT with others, and does that compatibility make sense? The competition for HRT for us makes sense that audience and listenership still has one matching factor. There are still other criteria for HRT compared to other electronic media, which is: taking care of quality, social relevance and comparisons with other world-wide public media. If HRT starts to look through such optics, we come to the sense of using another term, very much used in media discussions and analyses, which is ratings. We have been bombarded with data on the ratings of various televisions, radio stations, or individual shows, and we are not given a quality explanation of these figures. In that forest, incomprehensible data is found fertile soil for manipulations with numbers. For a quality debate on HRT and conclusions, a visible and understandable view matrix is needed because sometimes 5% of the ratings of the specialized show in the poorly monitored period is a brilliant success while for a comparison of 25% of the ratings of a semi-fun quiz in... That term is a catastrophic failure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only then and only then can we follow the development of HRT and compare it to irrelevant media houses. This treatment of HRT, according to the HSS Club, is appropriate because let us not forget that HRT is the only Croatian brand that belongs to the 500 largest brands in Europe at the assessment of the Austrian brand institute. Brand HRT although strong is not fully realistically defined. The programs should be more recognizable, the programme's vertices more recent, the visual identity should be built as soon as possible. That applies, of course, to television and radio. For this reason, we think that we need to evaluate our designers who are becoming increasingly present on the European world stage and include them in making the visual identity of HRT as well as their web. The digitalisation of HRT, the introduction of "HD" technology, multimedia and other IT solutions must certainly be the subject of the talks, but in our opinion the priority should be to create a clear, development strategy for the future by at least 2012 in order to actually be in whole and in all programmes individually visible in which direction HTV and Croatian Radio are going. We consider special attention in the HSS to be devoted to regional redactions, their strengthening in human capacity and financial and certainly strengthening of regional programmes themselves. HRT is therefore a European media business giant and should be subject to appropriate standards. Let us hope that in the near future we will have more of these giants in some other activities. The programme progress in the positive treatment of issues of public interest has been evident, which has been ignored in recent years. For example, the issues of the Homeland War are still well - worked and quantitatively today. I especially want to praise the broadcast of the series "Heroes of Vukovar" that completes it. We believe in HSS that more emphasis should be placed on supporting works of lasting value such as feature films, documentary films, scientific educational films and shows, concert transmissions, cultural, religious events and similar audio-visual works. The yellow that penetrates from a large number of electronic and written media must not begin to reign on HRT. Of course, there is a question of priorities in production and presentation and balance between content. The constant pain is, in fact, a walk in terms of showing certain emissions and content through the programming scheme and the question of including content of public interest in better-sighted terms. I also want to highlight the problem with the show Open that goes to the minors at midnight, a problem with a very high-quality and watched show "Half Hours of Culture" but what should also get a bigger chance in the HTV programme, that is, they are emissions about environmental protection such as a very high-quality "Eco Zone" show and I want to publicly praise it here. We think it is not impossible to find this balance especially if it is considered that the subscription is the basic way of financing HRT. This remark primarily refers to television, not so much to the radio. HTV also sees an increase in entertainment and sports content. We have to admit that some of them are, after all, questionable levels of quality. I'm going to give an example of what's left of us at the HSS Club. For example, for the transmissions of the Formula 1 race, the amount paid has been paid which is comparable to the total budgets of the two programmes of public interest. Formula 1 is a sport in which Croatia does not have its representatives unless Slavica Radic still has Eclestone as such, and there is no developed automotive industry. In fact, there's no idea at all, so there's an idea where there's a public interest, and if there's a public interest, is it equal to the sum of the two public interest programmes? You should think about that anyway. HTV announces the launch of a third sports special program and what we would like to hear in HSS is whether the sport then moves from the 1st and 2nd HTV programs to the 3rd? And of course we're interested in what's the funding plan for this special sports program? Is it a commercial program or a subscription to all three programs? In our opinion, HTV buys a large number of licenses for entertainment shows, quiz shows, game shows and the like. We don't believe that inside HTV there's no power that can produce a good quiz or Saturday's entertainment show. For what? Because HTV reads awards and recognitions on the international plan for documentaries, drama, culture, and we believe that there are certain people who are able to produce a good entertainment programme, which was once the stronger side of HRT. If internal forces were to be found there, huge funds could be saved that could be rerouted to programmes of public importance, which are unfortunately covered today with a very low budget. Of course, we mean a dramatic, cultural, religious, documentary and scientific educational programme. However, we would also like to commend the objectivity in the reporting of HTV and Croatian Radio journalists and their correctness because we are aware, and through previous discussions it has been said that it is precisely the information program that is given the most remarks and there are always the most well-intentioned proposals and in this sense we would like to warn of a new phenomenon that is noticeable in the programme, which is in the delay on the processing of the topic. I'll give you a few examples. First example, the Irish referendum. By the time the referendum results were announced, it had not devoted a second to this significant political event, unlike of course public broadcasters in the European Union, but public media in countries in an environment like Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Croatia is precisely the most hit by the referendum. Or we have a similar situation with the coming financial and economic crisis, with the exception of the business club that I must commend. The possible outbreak of the crisis was not processed until a month ago. Although many world experts warned about the great scale of this crisis, it was filmed, but different emissions were also organised. Or a third example, an example of Barack Obama which the Croatian audience could only meet before the end of the presidential campaign itself, regardless of what he is, we must acknowledge the kind of star of all relevant world media for a year. His political support, as well as his anti-candidians, is still not known enough, only if we watch CNN, BBC or any other television, and I must say that Croatian radio was somewhat faster, more concrete and interesting for these three points that I only mentioned as isolated examples. In our opinion, the information programme of HTV gives great space to topics from the black chronicle and we believe that this space should be replaced with topics of public interest because we must not forget that the media is the fastest and easiest to get information through electronic media, and this special role must be played by a public media such as HRT, i.e. HTV and Croatian Radio. I want to recapitulate on behalf of the HSS club until now. So, we advocate that HRT is assessed through quality optics, social relevance of topics, comparison with other public ones, and certainly not commercial media because we actually need a visible and understandable interpretation of the matrix of ratings. It is also necessary to work on establishing a recognizable visual identity of the house, and to approach the development of medium-term strategies and all programmes because let's not forget, HRT is a brand. More emphasis should be placed on supporting works of lasting value of cultural, documentary, dramatic, scientific and educational profile, while more internal creative forces should be tried in the entertainment programme to reduce the cost of purchase of licensed works, especially foreign ones. Progress in the information programme is necessary in terms of more analytically relevant and timely approach to the choice and processing of political topics. Finally, the work of the HRT in the past period deserves certainly a passing assessment and, for the upcoming period, much more energy and effort should be invested if ambition is to get a better score. There are times of various challenges in which both Croatian TV and Croatian radio should take their part of responsibility and obligations, and public expectations are really high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21367	Thank you. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21368	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Programme Council and Mr. Chief Director of Croatian Radio Television, colleagues and colleagues. I almost thought I'd like to pick up where my colleague Cain ended up, but since it's practically impossible to continue where he ended up because his style is so that rarely any of us can achieve it, I'll still be aware of the frameworks that I've achieved. But I'm still gonna say one thing. We voted on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities yesterday so that we split up and that this report by the Programme Council and the Financial Business Report did not receive the necessary support. This has been reported in the main journal and that is all I will say about the content of Croatian TV and Croatian Radio shows. It was reported that it was first said that all other committees supported it, but this one didn't do it. I've been in politics for a long time, and I may have too much sensitive hearing for that kind of language, but even though we're members of that committee, we didn't support it despite that kind of language. Secondly, immediately afterwards, he made a comprehensive contribution on how MPs enjoy undeserved pensions, even those who have never sat down in the assembly benches, as in the last term did not sit with the vice president of the parliament and the president of HSS, Mr Friscic, and then the mayor. It is certainly a very valuable topic of public attention, including discussions of parliamentary representatives, but not as a contribution that will silence the previous contribution and message from the previous annex. And he's been speaking too publicly for too long, and it's too often that when I say something, there's a contribution that's going to fit me. You don't have to agree with that, it won't be difficult for me in any way if you don't agree, and of course I won't be happier if you agree, but that's the case, and that shouldn't be the case. And now I will move on to what is my constitutional obligation as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, and since I am not and cannot be a television critic of any kind, nor can I speak as a regular viewer, so as my mother or my neighbor who is watching TV from her chair, because it is not something that is in my mandate, even if he might or might wish. It is my job to talk like everyone else here in the Parliament about the following, and that is whether Croatian television fulfils its constitutional and legal obligations in accordance with the Constitution and the law. That's what this is about. And you, Mr. President of the Council, Mr. Ljevak, in his report, as counterpart Vujic pointed out and colleague Pusic, well detected a series of problems that exist. As far as we are concerned, we, as representatives, thank you for your openness in considering what your mandate is and what comes from the authority of the programming council. However, a few words more should be said. First of all, when it comes to expressions, it is true that television as a public medium with perhaps the most influence and imagery and speechal and gestual is not a long-standing example to be seen by people who view it. It's not. Those who speak language don't speak good language. Those who speak that language rarely speak it in a good way and do not pronounce it as a lesson to those who see it. Yesterday, on the board, the director-in-chief was quite argumentative and openly speaking about it, which was tried and achieved. But based on what he said, I only recognize that there are influences that are unprofessional when it comes to selecting personnel and theirs, and the ability to appear in front of the camera and in front of the screen. I'm not going to say what effect it is, because I don't know, but it's quite certain that someone who is like a waiter can't serve an unfinished, unroasted, unroasted, or any other food, at the same time not the one who runs the program, or is responsible for the human and programming dimension, can't let someone who hasn't finished and baked their trade, and that's what's happening. The second thing I would like to say is a matter of complete and objective information. Unfortunately for him, I will not talk about other media, I will not talk about the poor media context in which Croatian television is located and which is not easy to deal with competition, but does not deal with competition financially, can only be handled by ratings. And that's about the way it is. The average viewer, and I count myself among those, will rarely hear comment rather than about what actually happened. It's not often they'll hear a comment about what someone said before what they really said. The news won't start with what happened. It'll start with a comment about what happened. Is there any such thing? It was, I know it was on some television in our neighbouring countries in the late '80s and early '90s, but it's not even there anymore, as much influence as it has to be. And people who follow it simply understand that there is no elemental standard, which is to inform people about what happened, who took part in the event and what are possible consequences for other people who may have this event or what someone said. No, I don't. There's a series of comments first. A third thing I would like to say after this issue of complete and objective information. Public television belongs to everyone, that's what some of my predecessors said here. 67.8% as your report, Mr. Chief Director, on the financial business of Croatian Radio and Television, comes from a subscription. Therefore, it cannot belong to any political party. According to this, although it would be said to be a lower level of assessment of the general national character of that television. If 67.8% comes from a subscription, if it is possible that the oscillations from the election to the election are recorded in the approach, in the program, in the frames. Isn't it possible to preserve some standard for that television? Isn't it possible there's some kind of minimum under which we won't go when it comes to public television, when it comes to state review, when it comes to the state's attorney's office, but every time we wait for our own. Now, that's our impression, and you're gonna make us right, and if you make us right, we're gonna be happy people, but we're afraid we can't get that correction, so unfortunately that's not the case. You're talking about it and the president of the programming council has spoken and some of the colleagues who spoke before me have said that there should be more elements on which dates will be important from a closer and further history of Croatian national identity and for the Croatian historical experience on the creation of state and independence to mark and not to give forget. I agree with that. And does this have to go in such a way as to offend those who otherwise do not belong to the ethnic Corps of the majority people? He doesn't have to. It does not have to be a celebration in either Knin or elsewhere that will be accompanied by shows that will offend people who are neither in debt nor guilty, they may want to participate, but the accompanying content prevents them from doing so. So if there's no hate speech, then unfortunately there's not enough tolerance. There is not enough insight into the integral function of television and radio as a public media that will unite all people regardless of the differences in religion, ethnicity or political membership in what is called the Croatian nation. There's no such thing. And now let me finally say something that I will try to be at least as close as Damir Cain. I can allow and understand that I, as Milorad Pupovac, is recognised primarily as members of an ethnic community and that I am led by the most diverse types of wars in interethnic relations. But working with me as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, I will not allow it, because of those who chose me, because of the Constitution I swore to and because of the words given to me by any vice president, either the president. We're not here and we can't be holy cows, but it's not gonna be anybody else. It can't be anyone else. If we should be subject to conflict of interest, then there will be others. So, if someone happens to have a national media in their hands and has the opportunity to comment on what I'm going to say from here, then there's a chance that they can match me with another contribution that I'm going to have, then it's ours to ask you, Mr. Chief Director, what about people who are caught on multiple occasions in conflict of interest? What about people, as they ask here, do they have companies, MPs or others, have they passed them on to someone else? The question is also, do people who work on television also have companies and what do they have to do with production and the like? I'm not asking anyone for anybody's salary. I'm willing to do my job for two thousand kunas, but I want minimum respect for what I'm doing from national television. No idolatry, no story of us being untouchable, but a minimum of respect for this House and MPs, regardless of our differences that exist in this regard, deserve. And this is how we will find ourselves in the situation that this Kunski mogul and because they have advertising capacities cannot be the subject of Croatian television's interest, and we can, of course, be the object of shouting however we want. Of course, because of the independence of a media institution that needs to be absolutely protected, first of all from us here, but we can't be the subject of racketeering as different species just because someone should be terrified of what it's going to look like tonight at the Dnevnik. We are public institutions, we have a job that is in accordance with the Constitution and how much we do our job or not. Now, Mr. Chief Director and Mr. President of the Council of the Croatian Radio Television, I would very much like to support your efforts on behalf of the SDSS Club, but I think I will give my best support, along with my colleagues, if this time I will deny you our vote for the report you have submitted here.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21369	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21370	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here in this late hour allow me a few words about this report. The HRT Council said in its report to the Croatian Parliament that Croatian Radio and Croatian Television had completed their basic mission because they had satisfied public interests in their programmes, a finished quote. That claim certainly requires comments. If, in the interests of the public, ratings are understood, then you could accept the fact and conclude that you have satisfied public interests through your Croatian Radio and Croatian TV programmes. But I don't think it's a good view of equalising public interests and that public interests should be seen in a broader context as a wider state and social interest, and then it can and must be a measure of whether or not you have satisfied the interests of the public. This is very important, because the public interest is measured exclusively through ratings. It is not a real social and wider interest and in this sense an appropriate quality definition of what is the public's interest through Croatian Radio and Croatian Television, certainly something that requires appropriate efforts to make the wider social interest through the Croatian Radio and Television programme more efficient, more inclusive, more adequately defined through the information programme, cultural, educational and all other different aspects of Croatian broadcasting in society. For these reasons, it is no wonder that the commentary still examines the best options that would satisfy commercial and public interests. This dilemma of politics or governance or management of Croatian Radio Television I would say is constant, the topic is these discussions and I tend to compromise that, in any case, the commercial aspect of public television is a very important part of the business strategy, and the financial one which then guarantees the appropriate financial resources to achieve the set, desired strategic programme interests. Croatian television, in your report, must continue to work on improving the programme, in a substantive sense raising civilization, cultural level and not raising in the fight with competition. Whether it's true or not, you can discuss it a lot more and say... A few words. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your report includes, among other things, the obligation to raise professional levels of journalists and editors, respect for programming principles and obligations established by law, continuous training and education. Three years ago, I spoke in the Croatian Parliament on the same subject, and I specifically pointed out this issue as a key limit in terms of quality, functionality and quality of the programme in a broader sense than I said at the beginning of the public interest. It's hard to achieve those goals if you don't have really good players on the team. The professional level of journalists and editors is a subject that deserves special attention and efforts of directorship and councils, and in any case I asked for the last time without an answer, how many of our people are on specializations in some of the highest quality television houses, to learn something that means quality, efficient, productive television information, quality of the program. How many people do you have this moment in CNN or BBC or elsewhere, because this experience in creating the best-quality TV program is something that needs to be pursued, because this can be achieved by raising the professional level of journalists and editors. Because raising this professional level, let's not kid ourselves, can't be realized and realized just through some degree. A measure of quality and measure of broader social interests can be defined as something we can and should discuss in the following way. To what extent the strategic guidelines can be said by the Croatian states, Croatian state policies and the HTV programme are mutually harmonised and to what extent they are truly through their programmes, their informative, educational and other programmes Croatian TV and Croatian radio contribute to the achievement of the strategic guidelines of Croatian state policy and Croatian state. Very specifically, topics that deserve attention and can be evaluated and measured specifically. Croatia and the European Union, Croatia and NATO, Croatia and the knowledge society, Croatia and technological development, Croatia and energy strategy something that is very current at the moment. To what extent Croatian broadcasting contributes to the achievement of these strategic goals, quality, functionality, people who understand these topics and who, by their knowledge and choice, ensure that Croatian public understands some of the problems better and some of the issues that are not trivial. Information is an important but also more quality and educational and educational aspect of all these topics. Croatia and the European Union, educational aspect, Croatia and NATO. The inadmissible simplification of such an important one, perhaps this hour of one of the central security, political institutions of the international community, I will tell you through several examples is unacceptable. Croatia is a knowledge society where Croatia's strategic goal is a common goal, I would say all Croatian parties to what extent it is represented, to what extent the programmes can educate Croatian society in order to understand more quality, more fully, more comprehensively the importance of these topics. Croatia's energy strategy is issue number one and NATO's parliamentary assembly, both NATO and the European Parliament and the European Commission, but it is not Croatian television. And that's an observation that deserves some attention. There was talk here of a black chronicle. It is unacceptable for sensationalism and black chronicle to dominate the content. And something else I'd like to point out in particular. The efficiency of Croatian radio-television. 3 thousand 692 employees, a billion and a half kuna incomes, comparisons with similar institutions in the world so-called The "benchmarking" that we pay attention to today deserves attention I would say the efforts to say whether with so many people with so many financial resources in this functional sense, in terms of social usefulness Croatian broadcasting can do much more. I have said and I will repeat again, the energy security of Member States not only of the European Union, but also of a broader topic which today dominates almost all of the world's political forums. I was with the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly a few days ago. There are SDP agents here. The topics that were related to energy security dominated NATO's parliamentary assembly. The recent meeting of the European Parliament in Strasbourg but the transfer of information on these topics to Croatian media through Croatian television was almost impossible. As long as people who are given information are not able to identify information with the right level of confidence and security, interpret information, I fear that those who transmit information and should properly interpret and bring closer to Croatian citizens are an obstacle to this communication channel. And I'm closing. Eight minutes of Bucharest April 2008, Croatia received invitations to NATO. A historic event for a country. For eight minutes, however, there is a certain defect in the editorial policy, the information programme. But it's not the only case. And I think that it can and must be done more on public television to increase its social usefulness and functionality, because Croatian broadcasting can and believe must do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21371	Thank you. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21372	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Council, Mr. Chief Director with his associates. For many years now, we as representatives have had the opportunity to look once a year at the reports of the Director-General and the Council of the Croatian Radio Television and agree with my predecessors. And there are a lot of things in this report that need to be criticised. But I'll try to be objective so I'll say next. When we compare these reports over the past few years, this report means a major positive step in both the Financial Business and the Work Report of the Programme Council. And that's the most important thing, and that's why I think that report should be accepted. So, when we talk about financial indicators, unlike in previous years, this time we can first establish financial discipline in the management of Croatian broadcasting, we can say that we are satisfied with the framework of compliance with the legislation, that we are satisfied with the positive audit report and that we are satisfied that we cannot first comment on public procurement procedures in Croatia's broadcasting. In the framework of the income and expenditure account, we can say that rational business has received its mirror on the expenditure side. So it's adjusted to slightly reduced income. In this way, there remained a balanced financial business. Here it should be said that the revenues from the fee are 68%, that they grow with salaries, the average salary as it is based on the law, that the revenues from the promotion fall but that's not a financial problem, that's the problem of forming public television, that's the problem of its main tasks in relation to competitors, with commercial televisions that absolutely this relationship and that competition I would say on the side of commercial television. So, it's unrealistic because public television meets a lot of public needs that commercially doesn't need, and that's why what we see in this report is that the revenue from advertising falls, and it's in the daily sales potential from 36 to 33% per year, and in 19 to 23 hours, it's also 3% and 4%, respectively, from 35 to 31%. We also see a large oscillation per month that probably has its justifications in the programming but probably also in the commercial part, so we see in March for example that the growth index of revenue from promotional messages is twice the year before, but let's say in the next month it falls to only 43%. Obviously, there are some legalitys in which we cannot enter now, but it is very likely that it would be a convenient recommendation to make one analysis of the reasons for the drop in these revenues from the promotional programmes and to establish around some objectives and some action plan, to see where the fall from these sources can go and how to which it can be tolerated in relation to the revenues from the main sources, which are fees. I bow to the opinion of some colleagues that public television should be excluded from that game because simply that game she can't win with commercial television. It should remain public television but funding sources must remain secure and business with these money must remain within the framework of the law as we can see in this report. Rational business and major positive steps can be seen in, for example, the number of employees. So far we are used to registering a significant increase in the number of employees from year to year, this time at 0.9% increase. So we see rationalization here, even though we know big problems in the structure of employees in relation to the needs of modern electronic media, we see a whole series of problems that will have to be solved. I also commend that 40% of the employees are women, which is also one positive ratio. I believe that it will improve even more in this direction and that there will be no objections from our Committee on Gender Equality in terms of employment ratios as was the case with respect to the programme. A few words about the council's report. So when we talk about programming principles, we have to say that the council has made a big step. In my speeches over the past years, I have complained that on the agenda of the council session there has been no or there has been a controversial point called Programme Analysis in the period since the last council session. This time in eleven sessions how much this report includes in all eleven we find a point and that is always in the first three places is this point Analysis of programming principles and implementation of programming principles and it is evident that these discussions are as detailed as we learn from the media, which times and very intense but they have clearly produced results. In fact, public television has been significantly and visibly bowing lately and bowing to its public assignment. I'll just say a few elements in favor of such a claim. First of all, topics of national interest are becoming more common, longer and more important in increasingly elite terms. This time for Vukovar Day, we didn't have to wait 17 minutes for the journal to mention the tragedy of Vukovar, we had a multi-hour daily program. We even had our first drama, TV drama on the subject of Vukovar. Regardless of all the criticism, it is good that she first appeared, and it is good that she appeared in the most elite time. Let's just remember three years ago when we had a show of sanity in the Homeland War. We've achieved a great deal of trouble to broadcast on Fridays at 2:00 p.m. Now the series of the Homeland War, about Vukovar, was broadcast in the most elite time and achieved a high percentage of ratings. When we rebelled in our own time why on Fridays at 14 a.m. the editor of the documentary program said, "So what are you rebelling and Oprah show is Fridays at 14 o'clock." So, the Homeland War is no longer at Oprah level, this time within the framework of the programme council or our television, Croatian television came to the fore and it is for every praise. The objectivity of what we see on our television in Dnevnik and other informative shows is evident in the fact that events are increasingly similar to what we have experienced here. We can indeed say over 80% of the events are shown faithfully in both the Parliament and the Government, and indeed these news is becoming increasingly a real reflection of what happened and not as it was in previous years that we cannot believe that this is a report from the same session that we attended. I also think that it should be said that the equality of representatives in the Assembly, we almost evened out the number of statements and footage of parliamentary representatives of the position towards the opposition, and at one time that ratio was very negative in favour of the position. It should also be said that there are less pessimism and less black news and more realism in the shows, information shows and others. Therefore, Croatian television has not been brought here with most of the printed media where in Croatia it is always disastrous but really trying to show it objective. Of course there are still shows like Latina that are incorrect because they are recorded in advance, which are incorrect because the ratio of guests is always 3 to 4 to 1 in favour of guests who represent the interest of the author of the show and another 3:0 in relation to the contributions, so that the one who thinks differently on these shows has no chance at all. And finally, it should be said that the public's relationship with the critics of the MPs who have always been and will be somehow different. In fact, we're used to being called after every sentence critical of HRT here in the Parliament. I was called personally by the president of the state. A year after my presentation, Hebrang said he wanted his television. Here, after this report all happiness Hebrang did not get his television, it is good but the Croatian citizen got more objective, more quality and with the law-compliant television and it is nevertheless part of the consequences and debate of parliamentary representatives who, by law, have not only the right but also the duty to say what they think about the HRT report? So let me get this straight. I want the MPs to have the right to talk about public television... No matter what they tell us to get involved in the program. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, I don't. We only interfere with the Programme Council's report and the financial management report. If we had no right to do so then public television would not be public but poor, and this report shows that we can improve its quality in good cooperation and therefore this report should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21373	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21374	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the speaker is not being taken away. The Programme Council, Mr. Director of Croatian Television, so here is a little bit of a follow-up to what the Programme Council was doing, so with a 10th session, 11 sessions a year we see that the Programme Council was doing everything that was actually authorized. There's no more big noise around the Programme Council, and if, we heard a little sooner than colleague Pusic, if they're talking about some tight relationships, so it's actually normal for me. If you have 11 people there who came from different spheres normally that everyone has an opinion. Finally, and the Constitutional Court, where all the same colleges have ended, the doctorate makes a decision with, I don't know, 5-4, let's say some important decisions. So this is absolutely normal for me. So that's always gonna be it. Everyone represents the final group he came from. I see that the council reacted about, to the accusations of, I don't know, overrunping marketing time. I mean, I don't have much to look at, so I don't know how much that's gonna be, but I need a reaction. If that's too much, I don't see the "Greetings from Rovinj" anymore. It then gave an opinion on the financial plan of the HRT, assessed the report by the director of the programme, the editor-in-chief of the Croatian Radio and Croatian TV information programme, so I think everything is fine on that side. Since the information programme is, however, the most listening part of the Croatian Radio and Croatian Television programme is normally a major responsibility for quality and credibility. Many listeners and viewers indiscriminately accept information obtained through these two media outlets, so the possibility of manipulation is high. But I don't think that's more important than that. Information shows, as well as some author's shows, often deal with Croatian Parliament and MPs, and if HRT is that important proof is I think, here I must commend a very high-quality team and one and other journalists who are following the work of the Parliament. The Croatian Radio, to begin with, gives the work of the Croatian Parliament a lot of space. Reports are here I have to say short, quality, current. The listeners may even hear precise announcements about what will happen in the congregation that morning, and that is what we listen to sometimes when we forget to look at the agenda. In particular, I said that and on the board is a quality show "In the Network", the first in which listeners can hear the opinions of all options without imposing conclusions. Clearly, some guests are more interesting, some less interesting. You have a problem with people who keep showing up to the same people, but I think it's very difficult to avoid. What we've heard many times today, and it's happening in both media outlets, it's the beginning of the news. The beginning of the news, now, seems to me the last few days something less, but that's what we're talking about. Black chronicle. Well, we talked about it just before if it's already that black chronicles so much in the news here's a suggestion to make even a special show with a black chronicle. Well, whoever likes to have some. And no, open any radio or television first you hear a few news from the black chronicle. Well, even before people died on the roads, people used to die in hospitals for this reason, well, that doesn't mean that there were the first few news reports like that. I think we should set it up, I'm not saying we shouldn't be informed, but why should the first news be? Here's how much you can influence I think that would be good. So I spoke the same language on the board. Yes, there are some strange accentes, but God forbid it should work on that. We even heard Mr. Director's answer. Never again has money been spent on lecturing probably even on exercises of sneezing, so let's hope that's a success. Croatian television in direct transmission here enables MPs to address voters through discussions. So after the transfer I have to say here the debates are shorter, more summed up, the Parliament is more efficient. So on the one hand, we can really turn to whoever we want, but then these discussions take 15 minutes, 10 minutes, so because while there's an all-powerful camera, there's probably a lot of talk. I think we could use a debate in the Parliament about the TV broadcasts of the Parliament's session. Let's see how we do it. It was on time the show of "Today in Parliament" which reviewed the daily events in the Assembly, and I think it would be convenient to make such a show with short contributions and reduce the direct transmission to the account of the show. I believe it would be much more interesting than to follow Parliament's work as it is now, as it is now. So I think the reports from the Parliament, the other reports from the Parliament, are that they can say good again. These are live reports, for example, in "Croatian Live", and then the "News" exams are also well processed. One objection, here's the "Open" show, I think it's unearthed it's too late, so here's the nation I have to tell us is well informed, but that's why sleepy next day because people watch a lot and I think we should do something sooner. Too many precious minutes I have to say that it's been spent on parking the car of parliamentary deputies, and now if it's already a journalist's research, then let the press ask themselves why they're so busy in the morning towards Zagreb? If people who come to Zagreb on all sides paid for parking then there would be no traffic. Be assured. We had our own parking lots here. This is a replacement parking lot. At the chance the Parliament doesn't pay more than they pay and the tenants who also lost and got parking places so I don't think it should have. The theme is again, it's always new and it's a new theme for the Parliament restaurant. Well, that restaurant feeds, so it should say clear and loud 600, 700 people eat daily, of which barely 100 MPs if so. For comparison, if we're going to go to investigative journalism, then we should say so. So give us a tour of some restaurants around that they're giving, let's say gables, marenda either way, equal qualities for similar money. I'm not gonna count which ones. Let's just keep this covert advertising. The positive shifts on HRT are definitely seen, here are the media increasingly mentioning the excessive number of employees of television, the lack of quality personnel, frequent shopping of external productions and the like, so I think it is mostly reduced to a reasonable measure, and since this is somehow the end of the year, the 12th month, here is also the director and the council I want a really great deal of success in further solving the problems and relations followed by Croatian broadcasting for many years, and according to the report by the president of the programme council and director. I think we can be optimistic, so we'll normally vote to accept these reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21375	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief Director of Croatian Radio Television, Mr. President of the HRT Programme Council, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have two documents today report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law in the Croatian Radio and Croatian Television Programmes from 3 September 2007 to 14 October 2008 as well as the report by the Croatian Directorate of the Croatian Broadcasting Office for 2007 which the Programme Council of Croatian Radio Television sent to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption and on which they gave their positive opinion to the National Assembly Committee for Information, Information and Media, as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And right away at the beginning, I'm going to say that I'm going to support both reports with a few minor remarks. In my discussion on the Media Committee, I commented on the discrepancies of reports that do not match the observed periods. The 2007 financial report and the implementation of the programme principles of the HRT Programme Council during the period from early September 2007 to mid-October 2008 and I therefore welcome the Government's proposal to bring these reports into line in the future because I do not see any reason for it to remain this way. During the observed period, the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council held 13 sessions, and the report says it lasted 68 hours and 20 minutes, on which within its legal competence the Programme Council continued to carry out the tasks prescribed by the Law on Croatian Radio Television. However, that time, therefore, is the observed period, the report speaks of a period of rich events marked by the lack of the right to transfer the 2009 World Handball Championship, which is hosted by Croatia and the resignation of the director of HTV for which members of the programme council have learned from the newspapers. In the observed period, there was a selection of a new director of the Croatian Radio programme, editor-in-chief of the information programme Radio, director of Croatian TV programme, editor-in-chief of the information programme, statements and steps in public of a number of editors and journalists against their home. Last year, in the term of office of the previous Croatian Assembly, six new members of the programme council were appointed according to the law. Parliamentary elections were held in accordance with the rules on the conduct of electronic media with national concessions in the Republic of Croatia during the electoral promotion and on which members of the programme council made a series of remarks in this report. I am sorry that this report shows up in two places members of the programme council's composition in the section relating to the programme council's report, among the members is unfortunately a recently deceased member of the programme council, Dr Juraj Njavro, while this report on the business of Croatian broadcasting is not listed at all, so it stands as if it is today, and I recall the report for the period until 14 October, it does not mention it. If I was wrong, I apologize, but I think they are, then I'm curious as to why the reports go together when the law provides that the programme committee must report to the Parliament once a year. Then the financial report on financial operations could have been sent to the Parliament a long time ago. It's just a little remark. If there's anything wrong with me, I apologize. The colleagues talked about the need for mutual respect, both from this House and from the Croatian Parliament and from the people on TV. So then I'm just drawing attention to the text on the third page of the programme report, where it is being warned, or I'd say it's being observed, but maybe in a different way, and then it's nice to say, "that on the basis of the discussions so far on the reports of the HRT Council in the Croatian Parliament, there are often no recognition of the powers of the HRT Council." In the second sentence, "publicity, including individual representatives in the Croatian Parliament, do not determine the authority of the HRT body and the fact that the HRT Council..." and so on, I do not quote. It is mentioned in the general section on the work of the HRT Council, which quotes, or literally lists the provisions of the Law on Croatian Television, Article 19(1) and (2), we have all commended them here. What I'm saying is, I think it's normal that in every report, no matter what the fifth order is, because there's a lot of my colleagues here who don't sit for five years, they're also more than five and they can read, and the rest of us can read, so when we talk about respect, I agree that this article in every report is present, but this one down here who recognizes, and who doesn't recognizes, we can reshape and say it in a different way. I don't want to, I also supported the committee, I support it today, but I don't want to judge and assess the strength of the council, and this is a report on what's on page 6, it's a monitoring of the implementation of the programme principles and obligations and programme orientations of HR and HTV, according to Article 18 of the Law, when we re-evaluate that the programme continues not to worry enough about language and speech, the colleagues also said. We have established in the financial report that the amount of resources for the Speakers, excuse me, that the lecturers and speaker department has exceeded the planned amount, perhaps for those 32 new employees of which most of the new employees are administratively on Croatian television, but I ask that the lecturers, including the coordinators, be used to write the report. We can't fight just for the right speech. There's something that's a literary language and in this report, and it needs to be content, and I suggest it based on what I've read in this report, not on how many places it's based. This is so much because I'm a Croatian language teacher, and now you can keep track of my speech errors. So, I don't want to judge the power of the council when we talk about the language, when we talk about Latina, and when the members of the programming council accept that the show in question does not have technical and human resources to broadcast live. I've connected it to the board, and here I am tonight. In the period since 14 October, the event I want to talk about, which I want to relate to, happened on 6 October when public television was unable to transmit a press conference from the Ban Courts, so I asked the question then, I repeat it now. Whether it's the same technical and human resources that didn't or didn't make that transfer possible that night. So these are some failures that are not spoken of in this report. 6.10. please enter the observed period on the work of the programming council as the date... until 14 October, with the Programme Council having held its own session on which there was no discussion in this report and everyone was shown that Croatian Radio Television, or HTV Information Programme, was not guilty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And one more thing. Finally, I welcome the commitment of the Croatian Radio Television Directorate not to run for commercial content that can also bring income, but I cannot help but notice that the revenues from marketing in 2007 are planned to be less than achieved in 2006, and are realised in an even lower amount. If we want to compare ourselves to the BBC, that is to make the BBC our role model, then we must, then we must seek both the quality of the program and the high professionalism of the employees. And in general, it was nice to hear tonight what achievements have been since 2003, so since the adoption of this new Law on Croatian Radio Television reached and there has been a lot of talk about, the public has been detained, independence, independence of Croatian Radio Television. The only thing I wish I had heard more often in my colleagues' speech is another very important word, and that is also the responsibility for the job and the task that is entrusted to Croatian broadcasting. In any case, I support this report and I want a lot of success in the future work of the Programme Council to accomplish all these tasks that have informed us in this report that it has not yet succeeded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21377	Thank you. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21378	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief Director, President of the Programme Council, colleagues and colleagues. Croatian Radio Television, The HRT Programme Council is legally bound by this High House to submit a report once a year on its work and on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations on HRT programmes. The report before us and from the formal-legal side is respected, and it is up to us through a debate that we are now doing within the last hour to give an opinion and give reviews on public television. I have no intention of persuading what HRT's professional services and bodies have accepted, but I would like as a representative in several sentences to convey the voice of the people from the middle I represent. Croatian broadcasting is a national institution whose programs I believe are monitored by the largest number of Croatians, and it is precisely a high percentage of ratings that gives me the right to say that HTV in presenting political, economic, cultural and other events in the Republic of Croatia and the world is treated very professionally, objectively and impartially. Therefore, as a whole, I believe that HTV programmes are defined according to these criteria and it is not easy or easy because it is difficult to satisfy all viewers thematically, i.e. everything is sufficient, fun, educational and informative. Great HTV professionals do it well, which I believe is more than one program, and I'm going to single out just a few. The central HTV "Dnevnik", "Croatian Live" collage of shows that go in the afternoon, is very much watched, authors try to be dosed fun and also informative. The show "The Fruits of the Earth", not only has a long tradition, but because of an extremely acceptable term on Sundays, has a high percentage of ratings at least in Slavonia where I come from. I believe that this is the reason for the theme of the show, which is the land for us Slavons is sacred. I believe that in the entertainment program, the viewers realize the show "Beautiful Ours" so that they don't forget their culture, customs, language, or that our e-portals are lost in the woods. I cannot not mention the show by Mrs. Branka Šeparović "Škrinja" and I often wonder from what and how the author manages to make a show that all generations view with equal interest, including the youngest. In order not to make everything ideal, because there are no such situations in this world, nor in HTV programmes, I must note that there are also some programs that polarise our troubled people from Monday to next Monday's controversy. In particular, it's a Latina show, a highly sponsored and commercial show that I hold to adversely affect the situation throughout the country. I'm not in favour of banning, but I am personally for more engagement of the Programme Council around this and similar shows, because it is not our goal to challenge, but to entertain, educate and inform about all relevant facts and events throughout history and present. And I, like my predecessors, will also accept both reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21379	Thank you. 5-minute debate on behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21380	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. It's harder for me to discuss this time than for the first time, because I've heard some arguments that have worried me. I was worried that since the last few discussions actually changed the content of this topic and they have changed to say pots and lids on certain things. We stressed that critically, because we critically accept the council's report. If we had to make it clear that everything that was critical of the council was what was good on television, then we would have voted against such a report. Some of the debates we've heard here, which are exactly the apotheosis of this and this kind of television, regardless of the criticism that the council is giving them, are actually such discussions that should vote against this council and not for this council. Because this council has given criticism to the work of television, and some have hypostasized forgive me for using that term, so they've praised it exactly the way it is. Mr. Pupovac's discussion is so serious and worrying that this council would have to think carefully about what it would do only in this individual discussion, and such a discussion was much. It's been warned of a whole series of things that don't work on television. I wouldn't agree with one of the critics who said this council is an extended hand of the Parliament because it's not true. This council is not an extended hand of the Parliament, but of what I say, something that represents the public on that television. I don't think members should edit or interfere with the editing which was also heard. It was said that political divisions had also increased. If political divisions have increased, then it is not clear to me how it is possible that everything we have received from the council is obtained as something that I have seen as a single position of the council, because this has no separate opinions in this council's report on this. No separate opinions. Thus, the council played its part, but it played its part by warning all the factors on television that are not working on that television. Since I belong to a party who is extremely concerned about protecting and developing institutions, we will remain in our position, but we cannot stay and adopt and count those views and those attitudes that actually falsify the content of this council report by praising the situation on television as well as actually pleading against the very report of this council. Some debaters have not done favors to those who want good television and, of course, such a division remained as it was and only now are the addresses replaced. I think there's one thing that's pointed out and I'm in the first discussion underlining her, and maybe now I'll be clearer. Non-transparency in not public procurement, cameras, this, this, that, it's not about me, it's about non-transparentity in the decision-making of programs, about external programs in external production. Non-transparency from showing how much, who and what income there is on television, and what has been declared without need of state secret television. That's what contributes to being able to say that on television today there are strong political lobbys, and I would say or have the right to doubt exactly because I don't have such data, that there are strong interesting lobbys that can be tied to this or that policy and are essentially not political, but their policy is where their interests are. I underline the request and we said that these things should be done transparently and in other words, and with which I will conclude, there must be an instrument to function the criticism of the council in relation to the content and methods of the work of the whole series of elements on television. Another such report, which would therefore repeat arguments and could not record concrete and quite clear and certain progress, would indeed raise the question of the HRT Council, not in the sense that this Parliament would vote for its report or not, because it is irrelevant, it is important that we discuss but there is no consequences for the Parliament but in terms of credibility. So, wanting this institution to be stronger, I use the opportunity to invite everyone from the council, the directorship and beyond, and of course, we all get to the maximum responsibility in keeping this institution, so to say the very rare assets that this people has in the media sense, in relation to all the oligarchical, media and other interests that have already been created in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21381	Thank you. President of the HRT Program Council, Zdenko Leviaq. Final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've recorded a lot of criticism and praise. Thank you for your comments, your criticism. I will certainly convey this debate thoroughly to the council members in five days' time as I conveyed all discussions from the parliamentary committees today at the session. However, I must react here as President of the Council to two things, I beg you not to mind me. The program council is not politically divided. I assure you however someone draws it from the context, the programme council is not politically divided, no distinction as to how and in any way chosen from the Parliament, and this proves just the beginning of my report that this report is actually accepted by consensus that we are not now using the Syntagma left and right, upper and lower, in fact by consensus of all these criticisms that the council has sent and are consensual members of the council that this is the case. Secondly, in order for the council to function politically, unfortunately after the death of our member of the council, the late Njavre, after the disease of one member, after the third member. So the Council held the last three sessions very seriously, had a large number of agenda points and was working with six members, and this is the minimum with which some decision can be taken and decisions have been made at the end of the council. So I categorically deny that the council is politically divided. Members of the Council, we are 11 persons, unfortunately 10, and I will take advantage of this opportunity and ask this Parliament to delegate to us as soon as possible another member, to create conditions for work, different professions and interests, but I assure you, all of us, are fully aware that we are doing one socially responsible role, that this House has given us the honor to do this, to do volunteer work, to work tens and tens of hours actually for no income or complain, but I am now encouraged by this political or non-political and I must say so. How just it is for members of the council to think about this or the future, you Parliamentarians think about it when a law is passed the second time or supplementing the law. There were questions here about the regional development of Croatian broadcasting. Well, the council actually did just that, this council, did something that never happened in Croatian broadcasting history 15 days ago. It organised the thematic session precisely on the basis of the regional development of Croatian broadcasting, invited all representatives of the centre, correspondence, etc. and radio and television, 46 together with the directorship and members of the council we worked and talked and actually recommended the programme to leaders or managers as I like to call them, Croatian Radio Television headed by the principal director to give us one concept of work and we got it. All the members, all the workers from various regions had the opportunity to say, to scrutinise their questions, demands and therefore to actually do one concept. I personally think that this is a major advance for Croatian broadcasting initiated in the first row by the members of the Programme Council, with full and great support from the Croatian Television Directorate, which has allowed even me as president of the Council to visit these centres with leaders and programming people, to make sure that there really is one inequality between the queen, or central and other regional centres. So that's what the council is talking about, that's not what we're talking about because this report is actually older and it's about the date of the former. Through my work, did I say it several times, whether it pops up or not, and we make sure we don't jump out because it has a law on Croatian broadcasting and says the rest. Well, we use that and a syntagma, and we also have a constitutionally strengthened role as the Programme Council. He's actually following up on what's been said here. Reports, we do not follow how something is happening, but they follow the reports that we receive on the table in the way that they communicate with public procurement as they are bought and bought and bought. And I have to admit that lately, and a significant shift in the sense that foreign programmes are being invested twice as much as or financed by them as before, and that these costs are actually why the council is interested in. The Council is interested in the cost of the programme. What's a cold drive is a cold drive. The Council can't do anything about it, but they're interested in any savings made on a financial transaction to go into the program and the results of a better programme and a better quality program, technological investment actually comes out of it. It was here I would say one, I'm willing to accept as president of the council all criticism with the right, but let me criticize something for this parliamentary speaker if I may, in fact, in the context of some members of the parliamentary deputies. You know, there was one debate here, and in what way is it supposed to be, is there a racket on the parliamentary representatives or not? I'm too heavy to comment at all, but I think the mistakes our journalists make, that they can't be evaluated in that way and that's not going in that direction. We as members of the council on what to insist and insist on and think that we have success in it, it is raising the professionality of our work, that the information is as high as possible and that our report actually, because every report can be prepared in one way or another, that our reports have a little more light than the black chronicle that we, as members of the council, are criticizing. However, we suggest, that is, when we talk about it in a way, record not really further. We have a lot of positive actually happening in this country that we also need to find a place in our program. Here's something. I'm not going to look any further, I don't want to pollute with parliamentary deputies. It's their right to criticise. We will accept, believe as well as the current debates that were in this House, that they will only help the council to be more quality next year and that in fact some criticism may be in some other direction not on the programme. Thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21383	Thank you. Croatian Chief Director Vanja Sutlic, final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21384	Well, I will also thank you for your praises and for your remarks and for the very critical assessments that have been made here. We'll know how to draw conclusions and tasks from them. Part of your criticism stems from something you may not be fully aware of. From the fact that our business and our business in both programming and business terms is more transparent and open than it was. And that the number of council sessions and the topic that we put on these council sessions is quite different for it to trouble an incomparably more of the business software relations in the house than it was before. According to his echo in the media, he of course leads to greater criticism and you rightly. I am well aware as my associates, problems and the necessity of the transformation that Croatia must go through in order to meet on one hand the communication future that has already stepped into this space, and in Europe it has long been happening, as well as from the point of view of raising professionalism and in the right way of estimating what is... politics and freedom which has come from the law of 2001 for the media called Croatian Radio Television, and has been established by law since 2003 and functioning through three Governments. I have to say here that there is a real distance from the one to say formal policies from the management of Croatian radio television, but we still have to do a lot to make that informal contact that exists between politics, the economy and some other groups move away from both our publications and our journalists. HRT as the only public service in Croatia must be and it is good to be very critical and evaluated. I assure you, we ourselves are very critical of our own work and success. Therefore, every criticism, and I believe that here most criticism was well-intentioned and with concern for this medium, is preserved as a contribution to our continuous improvement, or as a requirement to improve everything in our power can be done in real time better. But at this time, when we are critical of Croatian broadcasting, I must say, because of you, but also because of all the public, that HRT is today the most credible medium in Croatia and at the same time the most balanced single medium in Croatia. Could it be better? It has to and can and is our direct responsibility when someone here has already mentioned the responsibility we accept. I'm on a kind of criticism, and if I can use the word particularly sensitive, and that's one part of the assessment of HRT coming from printed media and part of something mentioned here from personal contacts, and there are evaluations about the relationship between politics and our work always refers to those of our other employees, that I don't now indicate who was targeting whom and in which relation to the politics of those who incorrectly and trendily inform you about certain things is not relevant, but that is one and the other, meddling in our independence and in the possibility of getting rid of these different influences, so much as I can say here that HRT is fully open and available to all bodies without telling MPs and individual and congregation bodies in each respect. There are 3,000 600 people working on HRT. It's a good situation on the radio. On most of Croatian television, too, in the sense in which I said it in principle. So anything can be better. Here it all comes down to part of the information program of Croatian television if I understand the gross criticism well. We want to fix it, but I say please do not help us in a way that you identify yourself with certain circles of interest that are in conflict in this arrangement as a continuation of an unpopular and bad tradition of years and many years behind us. Perhaps part of the crisis is really in the excessive presence of political interests and lobbys among our journalists who mainly, within which this discussion is mostly happening. We can't put together a personnel structure according to the options in this House, and I want to say that in this respect we neither had any intention nor will we ever have as long as this is the home leadership in action. And I'd like to say that when people put themselves like that, that then, I understand some really incorrect contributions from my colleagues who hit and hit and individuals in this House, but you have to understand that when our people are politically classified politically they also receive it with a very large dose of injury. I'd like to say something special about working with the council. Perhaps such a critical observation in these numerous sessions that the council has stated here would not be when it would not actually be an uninterrupted dialogue between the councils, directorships and the program management of the house in which it may be missing in this dynamic uninterrupted criticism relating to what was between the two sessions, first of all to some concrete remarks, if it were not also accepted by the leadership of this house especially of the programming people and trying to maximumly meet and that those things that are really not good and which are rightly being warned and removed here. However, it is a process in which we also need time and habits to learn about professional norms that are only in our hands and not in the hands of support that a man can get when he does this job on various sides. Of course, I'm saying this a little ironically. In that sense, we have also established this Center for what would be said to be a continuous education. In this sense, it is our efforts to send people continuously, here someone asked us to participate and participate in all possible seminars held by the IBU, visit all the correspondence radio and television centres in Europe, participate in numerous workshops, learn wherever we can learn, and wherever these funds allow us. That's what we intend to devote more incomparably than what I last said to the funds in years to come by establishing one such institution. Here was the mention of language and speech. That's the main reason why we're doing this and what this center's working with. I'm gonna say one phenomenon that's not just our problem. Indeed, the greatest number of criticisms we do not have the right answer are the quality of language and speech. At the same time, never more employees of lecturers and phonetics are more than we have today, and we've never spent more resources, I've already said, we haven't spent. Unfortunately, the system we're working on is as bad as it happens in the process of work and not in one of these centers where a person can completely concentrate so that every time that intervention winds up with the moment it's realized. So this has to become a matter of one other guy's education. But here I'm going to say one thing that I think you should imagine. I have visited many countries and many television and radio stations. There's not that much language problem anywhere. In some countries and some cells there are no lecturers at all. It has minimal support for the main leaders in the sense of phonetics. You know why? Because people come out of college in writing. The problem here is that in our process, we must compensate for the literacy that does not exist in the education system and we are talking about the land of knowledge and the time of knowledge. The honor of some narrow groups and some narrow professions, but that's a real problem. There's something I'd like to say about some more details. Some of them are gone, so I don't know if it makes sense to answer individually, probably not, but just so much to say. We have built an entire concept of a new regional programme on this initiative. This connection has given us that probably in the fall or certainly in the autumn of the following year, the regional programmes will be raised to one hour by... three to four hours, and then when new multiples are opened, we are also thinking about a single channel that would be exclusively intended for public regional information, so we are going to open up this space to fully approach people as in radio stations, live in real space, and then satisfy a whole series of problems that arise today in this kind of programme structure and regarding both many rights and many contents intended for special groups, minority groups and then not only special shows for certain nationalities, but in the right sense of regular news in the languages of the people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This will be even more pronounced and realized when hopefully, during this year, an informative, specialized information channel takes place in line with the opening of the opportunity that this country has entered for us. Something about tax and marketing. We are indeed moving in a model that is an absolutely dominant European model. Actually, I think we did the best we could, uh, what was the recommendation and... all members, therefore, of the roof organisation of public radio and television. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today it is thought that this form of a source is actually a fundamental guarantee of public media independence because this kind of discussion, like, is our legacy of reality and regarding surveillance there has already gone into the sphere of good customs that are not being violated and norms and principles of professional ones that are not present in this way. Here they are rightly present and subject to criticism. The tax is therefore the basis everywhere and mainly combined with marketing or sponsorship. Even the BBC is now introducing some of its channels to that possibility. A combination of marketing with something we call a fee. And I could say here that only those countries that, where there is no marketing or entirely covered it with a fee or there is another formula that is transferred from the income of marketing commercial television to a certain percentage in favour of public broadcasting. And I'm going to say in that sense that the smaller the country is, that's the concern of financing its public service bigger in Europe because it's the only guardian of its identity and real communication with the rest of Europe. This should not particularly worry about BBC or HRT or French television, either Spain or the Italian, large countries or in particular Denmark, Belgium, Norway, Finland, Portugal and others. It was very critical here that there was transparency in business and rightly so. But here I'd like to say, maybe I'm not good at grades, in what I've been saying obediently, or you haven't heard me. We are practically the entire public procurement which, Mr Vujic spoke of, was the subject of such and such observations placed in the field of public competitions. This means that we have also made the funds for which it is spent completely transparent, because it is a public tender as well as the results of these public tenders. Far beyond this 10% limit. And we're practically getting that orientation even bigger next year. And we left this situation where there was an agreement or an opportunity to interpret the deal under the table. A deal under the table in the period during which this directorship decides no. Something about a conflict of interest. One part of the conflict of interest that has again largely come as a disclosure from the media sphere, very interested media and printed media that have already received an assessment here, one part of it could refer to the period before. The second part, we've passed out every knowledge we have about it and that we couldn't... State's attorney's office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Part three, we've spent all the possible controls we could carry out. We don't have any direct documents to confirm that, and based on the newspapers we're talking about, we can't fire people, and believe that I'm willing to give them any proof. Without much discussion and whatever the consequences and what the court will ultimately judge. We don't have any evidence except newspaper articles. We asked the newspapers for proof of what they wrote. We didn't get them. We didn't get them from the lawyers who were there. By the attorney's office, we're still talking about the latest things and our demands that aren't from this period at all, and we haven't received any answers. In the end, I'll say I'm sorry, and I think Mr. Pupovac was right when he said yesterday's announcement in the journal was incorrect. Because I'm sorry about the parking lot because we have a lot of employees, a lot of factories, a lot of companies, a lot of public institutions have parking lots, and it's really because I personally care about this kind of cheap subject to say which small points they get on. I'm sorry about the restaurant. In this restaurant there are also people from Croatian Radio Television who are working and monitoring the work of this Parliament. I would like to say, however, that when it comes to pensions there is little of our ability to organize and overestimate. You don't believe we've been able to make a contribution since yesterday afternoon just to match up with an individual or one body. Unfortunately, the second is behind each of the annexes in the journal. There is some logic in making these contributions, and it is quite logical that if it is informed from the Parliament to follow some contribution from the Parliament. I apologize for some other things and also for the topic of the famous... I'd like to say about this subject there was no intention either, it's just an impression, not something that was any evil. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, I'd like to say two more. The number of employees doing this job in other countries and in other public television is close. The norm in other countries is no bigger than it is smaller. But the demand for the quality of those articles that journalists especially do is higher. The exemption from total income in Croatia is less than any country we can compare to if we do not take countries that have an uncomparably difficult situation than we have before. She's about 40%. In the IBU, there is no separation below 50 or up to 70% for labour force, and this separation gives at last multiple not to say with double digits multiplied amounts, another problem in this house is serious, and that is that for this time when we will offer multiple channels for the same money because technology has brought us this, someone has asked us a question. So yes, we're going to give more content because we need another kind of literacy and another kind of ability, we're going to have to change the structure, and we're going to have to reduce the number of people, not because it's simply an estimated surplus, but because we don't have enough money to pay for those jobs that we need well enough to have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21385	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments to the Customs Tariff Act still in line with the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21386	Fifthly, Report on the work of the Council of the Croatian Radio-Television and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out in the Law on HR and HTV Programmes for the period from 3 September 2007 to 14 October 2008 and the Report of the Directorate of Croatian Radio-Television and Business for 2007. ... There's one item on the agenda. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mrs. Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21387	Thank you. Mr. President. On behalf of the club. I'd like to say, to apologize for not being divided yet, it's our fault, on the benches, but I'd like to say that a number of clubs have suggested one conclusion about this point. If you'll excuse me, he's not very controversial, I'd like to read that conclusion and see if you agree to make a statement about him. The conclusion is, therefore, all that is in the preamble to Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Report on the work of the HRT Council and then a whole series of HNS, IDS, SDSS, National Minorities and SDP suggest the conclusion: "The HRT Council is obliged to submit a progress report within six months on the fields of culture of full and objective information and the development of public content in the implementation of public television programmes, and to remove talks on possible corruption within Croatian radio-television.". You know that all these points have been reported by the HRT Council as a matter of fact as to the problems they have encountered. They have an obligation under the law to do so at least once a year, but we considered it to be a debate which was that so that everyone could support it so that they would then make such a conclusion that in six months they would once again report on what they had already warned about in this report in order to enable us to have an accurate insight. So, if you agree and that conclusion is just going to be divided, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21388	Thank you. We also have Mr. Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21389	I've come forward because it's two different things and that we need to separate the vote on one and vote on the other. One is the vote on the Council's report and the other is the vote on the Director's report, as it is already called.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-12-03-0.u21390	I think that's okay, that we should vote separately because these are two different reports even though they are at one point in the agenda. Thank you. First of all, I think Mrs Pusic's proposal should be accepted because of what we really want, we don't have to wait a year for a report, we can also request more frequent reports and I think that proposal should be accepted. And also, I think the vote would be separate. First, we vote on the report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles, etc., so under a). Who's in charge of this report? Against? Restraint? Thank you. This report was accepted by 111 votes for and 1 against. And we vote on the 2007 Management Report on Business. Who's in charge of this report? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the director's report was accepted by a majority of 76 votes in favour of, 3 against and 33 abstentions. The Committee on Gender Equality proposed to the Assembly the following conclusion: "It is up to the HRT Programme Council to consider in particular the application of the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality which speak of the obligation of the media to promote the development of awareness of women and men through programme content and self-regulatory policies and self-regulatory acts, and to report to the Croatian Parliament by the end of March 2009 at the latest. A year.". Please, who's in favour of the conclusion of the Committee on Gender Equality? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 112 votes, a proposal from the Committee on Gender Equality is accepted. I am now making a proposal submitted by HNS clubs, IDSS, SDSS, National Minority Representatives' Club and SDP's Club, the conclusion interpreted by Mrs Pusic, which reads: "The Council of Croatian Radio-Television undertakes to submit a progress report within six months on the fields of speech culture of complete and objective information, the development of public content in the implementation of the public television programme and the removal of the conversation", I believe the objection "of possible corruption within Croatian Radio-Television.". Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that this conclusion has been adopted unanimously by 112 votes.
