ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5869	Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council! I am opening the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Sanader, vice presidents and vice presidents and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received a record of the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record? I don't see anyone answering. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 3rd session of the Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! We're moving on to the agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. The draft agenda referred to in points 2, 3, 4, 5 and 15 shall state the laws which are proposed to be adopted by an emergency procedure. These are: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Financing Instrument for Civil Protection" with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z. No 37, - Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency amending and supplementing the Protocol with the Agreement of the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of guarantees relating to the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 36, - Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the general conditions of Danish bilateral assistance to Croatia with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z. No. 43, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Media 2007-2013 Community Programme with the Final Proposal for the Law is an emergency procedure. So, P.Z. No. 42, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 38. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Yeah. Mr. Representative Šprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5870	Dear Mr. President, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, prime minister and government representatives and members of the government. I have an objection based on Article 205. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament on the adoption of the Road Safety Act by means of an urgent procedure, and because this law has always been passed in such a way that a lot of people participated in the process of adoption, from the professional public to the most public. If no public debate was held, no law would have been passed on an urgent procedure. Since the proposer, past the expectations of the rest of us, should have been proposed in the form of full text, integrated text rather than in the form of changes and additions as announced, then it is time for this law to be adopted on a regular basis. And that is why, given this fact and the enormous interest of the professional and wider public and its importance for the lives and health of people, I propose that this law be adopted in a regular procedure. And I suggest that, given that the E tag is removed, it can later be placed when at least a month can be discussed, today, or at this session in the first reading, and only at the next session in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5871	So this is where I read the five laws that I ask to ask if there are any objections? So that law is not in this, it's under P.Z.E. And we'll vote on it. So, are there any objections to these five proposed laws by emergency procedure? There isn't. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? I'm asking again? There isn't. ... The vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please determine the quorum! There are 105 MPs present. We can approach the vote! Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia in the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Financing Instrument for Civil Protection"? Who's in favor of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously in the agenda, this law has been entered into by an emergency procedure. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency amending and supplementing the Protocol under the Agreement of the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of guarantees concerning the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons contracts? Who's in? Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. I find that with 107 votes, this proposal has been unanimously accepted. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the general conditions of Danish bilateral assistance to Croatia? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 108 votes, this proposal has been accepted. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Media Community Programme 2007-2013. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I find that with 108 votes, this proposal has been unanimously accepted. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 110 votes, the motion is accepted by emergency procedure. Thirteen laws that comply with European Union regulations are included in the agenda, ten of which are subject to an emergency procedure. Acts bearing the indication P.Z.E. for which emergency procedures are required are included in the draft agenda according to points 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 18 and 19. In accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty on the The rules of procedure which comply with European Union rules shall apply as soon as the applicant so requests and shall not be voted upon. However, MP Boris Shprem suggested that this Road Safety Act should not be followed by an urgent procedure, so I ask the government to show itself about the proposal. Yes, go ahead. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5872	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In the Government, we accept the proposal of MP Šprem to discuss in two readings this law, but since we insist that application start from 1 June and for tourist season and other reasons then I suggest that it be at this session of the Parliament but in two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5873	Thank you very much. Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5874	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. There's another law that has a P.Z.E. code. and for which an emergency procedure is foreseen, these are amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Let us object to the fact that this law is being changed by an emergency procedure. First of all, we think it's unwarranted that he has a P.Z.E. code. Because the changes that are foreseen here are no alignment with European Union legislation. The fact is that we have a law that is valid and that regulates this area and that law does not apply. So, even though we have a law under that law, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests is not appointed. We don't have a commission today, we don't have a body to monitor any conflict of interest in officials. And first of all, we demand that the current legislation be respected. Secondly, given that these amendments, as proposed by the Government, provide for this commission to actually rip out its teeth and take away any power to control conflicts of interest because it is predicted that the president of this commission is no longer a representative from the opposition's ranks but to be so-called. a non-partisan person who will certainly be elected by the parliamentary majority in this House and who will be the exhibit of the parliamentary majority and will certainly be tasked with safeguarding the interests of the parliamentary majority and the government rather than preventing conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5875	When the debate opens, then you'll be making arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5876	So I'm just making an argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5877	Please, when the debate opens, don't discuss the scale of the agenda point. You've put forward a proposal here not to get involved in an emergency procedure, and that's what it's all about. ... I'm asking the government to take note of this proposal as well. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5878	With the same arguments used by the MP for his proposal, we insist with these arguments on an urgent procedure to resolve this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5879	Therefore, there were no written objections to the agenda that I proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would now, in accordance with Article 205(2). The Rules of Procedure should publish the agenda. I suggest that compared to the 11th item of the agenda that the government has accepted to go to first reading, with the second reading being in the course of this session of all other points of the agenda being accepted. So let me not read the whole agenda. So, this point 16 of Mr Stazic's remarks enters the agenda as P.Z.E. under number 16. That's how we established the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5880	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session. I'd like to suggest an addition to the agenda. HDZ MPs' club, Andrija Hebrang's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5881	Mr. President. On behalf of the club, I suggest a hand vote because we don't all have the keys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5882	Okay. Thank you very much. I will propose the agenda to the following points of this session: - Selection of three judges of the Constitutional Court, - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Holidays, the Memorial of Days and Unworked Days in the Republic of Croatia, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Confirmation of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, the Emergency Procedure, - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Classification of Unprocessed Trees, the Emergency Procedure, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Registers, the release and transfer of contaminant substances with the Convention on Access to Information and Public Participation in the Decision of Access to Justice and Environmental Affairs, with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z.E. No. 60, - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on road transport, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 61, - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 59, - Final proposal of the Law on free legal aid, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 27, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Post, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 62, - Proposal for a law confirming the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence, P.Z.E. No. 57, - Proposal for a Strategy for the Development of River Transport in the Republic of Croatia 2008 to 2018, - Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in 2007, - Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2007, - Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities, - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the former director and deputy director, the appointment of a new director and deputy director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, - Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of the part of the so far and the appointment of a part of the new members of the Council for Electronic Media. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I note that the following laws, and this proposal for a law on the validation of the Protocol on Registers, descent and transposition, etc. is P.Z.E. No. 60, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act is the same as P.Z.E. No. 61, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights P.Z.E. No. 59, and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on P.Z.E. No. 62 and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on Compensation for Victims of Crimes of Violence P.Z.E. No. 57, since they're wearing a P.Z.E. tag. we do not vote in accordance with Article 161 of the Emergency Procedure on the adoption of these laws. Rules of Procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws and this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on holidays and mentioning days, the second Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the approval of the European Charter of Local Self-Government and the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the law on the classification of unprocessed wood? On these three draft laws are there any objections to the urgency of the procedure? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Who is the subject of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Holidays, the mention of the days and the unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 70 for, 14 against and 2 abstentions, the law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Amendment and Completion Act of the European Charter of Local Self-Government? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 88 votes to be included in the agenda by emergency procedure. And finally, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the termination of the Law on the Classification of Unprocessed Trees? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 88 votes in favour. Any of the representatives and deputies have any objections to the inclusion of other proposed points in the agenda of the 4th session? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. In accordance with Article 204(2), ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament and of the Council I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 4th session to the points: Proposal for a Law on the Introduction of the European Cooperative, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 67, Proposal for a safety check law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 66, Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2007, Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2006, Proposal for the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2008. Proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2008-2012 and Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. We note that the proposal for a law establishing a European cooperative, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 67 bearing the P.Z.E. mark We do not vote in the case of an emergency procedure when it comes to the adoption of this Law. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of other proposed points in the agenda of the 4th session? Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of other proposed points in the agenda of the 4th session? Mr. Representative, Vice President of the House of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5884	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I would propose to the Rules of Procedure that the Committees on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Legislative Committee consider the inclusion by an urgent procedure of this first law on the introduction of European cooperatives, which is P.Z.E. However, in accordance with this Article, if there is any doubt about the compliance of this law with the Constitution and the legal system, the law may nevertheless be sent in two readings on the basis of the opinion of these two Committees. In fact, I think this is about introducing the direct impact of European laws into national legislation and I would suggest that two committees consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5885	Thank you. Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5886	Mr. Vice President, I have no objections but I wonder if it might be a mistake. P.Z.E. No. 66 is listed as the first reading. So far, it's been a practice of intruding.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5887	Are you talking about Law 67?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5888	No, I'm talking about the proposal for a safety check bill. He's wearing a P.Z.E. tag. and it goes to first reading. And here we have a case by my weightier and more important law which.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5889	That's a comment. The Proposer may also propose a law that is P.Z.E. put him in an emergency procedure, and he can put him in first reading according to his assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5890	Okay, but we're the ones making the final decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5891	Yes, but this is a matter of proposing. With regard to this second proposal for a law establishing a European cooperative where Mr. Vice-President of the House Neven Mimica suggested that the bill go into two readings, this is only possible if the home working body or the Committee on the Constitution or the political system or the Committee on Law, where these committees would propose that the law be discussed in the first reading for reasons that it does not comply with the Constitution or the legal system. Since this is not proposed by the parent working body or committees, this is only an initiative of Mimica Vice-Presidents, since the committees did not propose it then, for these reasons, I cannot even put it in place, stop voting and put it on the agenda for the committee to decide. We can't do that now because we can't introduce one practice that when the law was passed, the bill per P.Z.E. and it is proposed by an urgent procedure to initiate a meeting of the home working body or committee which should then decide whether such a law will be adopted by emergency procedure. Agent Neven Mimic's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5892	Mr Vice President, Article 161(2) has been injured. Rules of Procedure. I believe that the simple Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Law must put on the agenda such as this on the agenda so that they can assess whether they are in compliance with the Constitution and the legal system at all. This is how to claim that they are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system only because these two committees did not discuss it and did not launch an evaluation initiative I do not think that then no law can be returned in two readings unless it comes to the agenda of the relevant committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5893	Unfortunately, I do not share your legal view or opinion because here the Rules of Procedure are precisely clear. The Committee or the parent committee or the Committee on the Constitution should take such a decision and determine. You can't do this in an indirect way. If you do not accept this explanation, I will give it to the home Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system which I am president and you are a member and we will discuss it. But now I can't put this proposal to the vote because he's going through an emergency procedure. If the board closes the post-festum later then we'll... the second decision shall be taken by that decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Are there objections to any other proposals, objections to other agenda points? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the day-to-day supplement is over. Members of the Joint Commission for Administrative Affairs of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are on official visit to the Croatian Parliament joined us at the Gallery. Allow me to welcome, on behalf of MPs and MPs and on my personal behalf, the head of the delegation of Mr. Ramzi Kadric and members of the delegation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5894	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition of the agenda to the 4th session points. First, the report of the mandate-immunity commission. Second, the bill on preventing work abuse, first reading, P.Z. No. 55th, Proposer: SDP representative club. Third, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the European Charter on Local Self-Government, First Reading, P.Z. No. 65, Proposer: Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. Fourth, the proposal for a law on a blinding allowance, first reading. But it wasn't too much of a sentence. What? It's some kind of printing error. In any case, we will return to the full name of the agenda item. P.Z. No. 63, Proposer: Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Fifth, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 68, Proposer: Representative Dragutin Lesar. Sixth, Final Bill on Road Safety, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 39. Seven, Proposal for a minimum wage law, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 71. Eight, Proposal for a Law on Discussing Discrimination, with Final Bill, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 74. Ninth, Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act, protection of health at work, with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. 72. 10th, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 76. Eleventh, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. 73. Twelveth, Proposal for a Law on Administrative Inspection, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. 78. Thirteenth, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Explosive Substances Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. 79. 14thly, the proposal for a law on the validation of a multilateral agreement between the European Community and its Member States of the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the mission of the temporary administration of the United Nations in Kosovo on the establishment of a European, common airspace, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z.E. 77. Fifteenth, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Instrument for Amendment and Completion of the Statute of the International Labour Organisation, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. 75. 16th, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation and Amendment to Article 25 and 26 Conventions on the protection and use of cross-border waterways and international lakes, with final draft laws, emergency procedure, P.Z. 70. The proposal for a blinding supplement law, that's what this one's called now under number four. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I note the laws, not to read them, and I will only mention P.Z.E. numbers. No. 74, P.Z.E. 72, P.Z.E. 76, P.Z.E. 73, P.Z.E. 78, P.Z.E. 79, P.Z.E. 77 bear the P.Z.E. mark, so we do not vote after an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the other proposed laws? These are the draft minimum wage laws, with the final bill, P.Z.E. 71, Proposal for a Law confirming the instrument for amending and supplementing the Statute of the International Labour Organisation, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z.E. 75, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Articles 25 and 26. Conventions on the protection and use of cross-border waterways and international lakes, with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z. 70. Any objections to the urgency? If not, we will vote out of these three proposed laws by emergency procedure. First, the proposal for a minimum wage law, with a final bill. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Please, let's get on with it. First the quorum, then we'll vote. We'll determine the quorum. 115, we have a quorum. Let's please get involved in the vote for the law. Here you go. Let's get involved and vote. For emergency procedure, this number 71. The result? The emergency procedure was voted in favour of most votes, 101 for and 2 abstentions. Let's move on. Proposal for a law on the certification of instruments for amendments and additions to the Statute of the International Labour Organisation with a final proposal for the Law of the P.Z.E. 75. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? Most votes, 100 for and 6 abstentions were accepted. Let's move on. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation and Amendments to Article 25 and 26 Conventions on the protection and use of cross-border waterways and international lakes, with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z.E. 70. Please, let's get involved and vote. You're welcome. The result? This proposal was accepted by 108 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. I find that all three are therefore accepted by emergency procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the other proposed items in the agenda of the 4th session? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. The quorum, please, let's see. Because when I announced it, in the meantime, three, four MPs left the assembly. Looks like it's better not to announce that we're voting. 79, we have a quorum. I suggest that 5 points be included in the agenda: First, the proposal for a law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. It's the first reading of P.Z.E. number 84. Secondly, the Proposal for a Law on Medical Products with the Final Bill, it is an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 83. Third, the proposal for a law on officials and tenants in local and regional, regional self-government with the Final Bill. It's an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 80. Fourthly, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade with the Final Proposal for the Law is an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 81. And fifth, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties with the Final Proposal of the Law. Also emergency procedure P.Z.E. Number 82. All of these bill proposals are in law enforcement. I stress that first, the first proposal is in the first reading. So it's about education and education, it's about elementary and high school, but it's also about P.Z.E. Therefore, we do not vote on the urgency of the procedure since all the laws of the P.Z.E. And I'm putting these five laws on the agenda. Please raise your hands who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 79 votes, it is acceptable to include these five drafts of the law in the agenda. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Please, I ask the presidents of the working bodies since it is included in the agenda that as soon as possible, uh, at their sessions so that they can start discussing some of these laws at the end or Thursday or Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5898	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. My question is from the House of Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and I wanted to introduce it to the Deputy Prime Minister of Jadranka Kosor, who is dealing with the problem. I think what an informed answer the secretary of state will give, so I'd set it up. Five years have passed since the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and some of the essential segments of this law are not implemented or implemented at all very weak and negligiblely. Despite the letter of the law, members of Serbian and other minority communities are significantly sub-represented in justice, the interior ministry, the state administration and local authorities. Although it has tried to pass new laws and some regular measures to correct the situation, it has not happened, nor has there been an improvement in employment. We have poor admission plans in the state institutions and ministries, very often applying discrimination which seriously violates the legislative frameworks and blocks the process of return and reintegration. All this leads to the poor functioning of individual services and institutions and certain territorial units. We know that the Government is preparing specific measures for the implementation of this Act, that some refer precisely to the representation of members of national minorities in state administration bodies, judicial authorities and units of local and regional administrations. The question is, in what way and within what time can the Government make the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities visible, in particular Article 22(1) to (4), which refers to the proportionate representation of members of national minorities in employment?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5899	Thank you. State Secretary Mr. Mesaric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5900	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The issue of implementing the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, I can only say, the Government will implement fully and meet all the conditions laid down in the Constitutional Law on the Implementation of Minorities, which is also part of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5901	Thank you. Mr. Stanimirovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5902	So I can only be partially satisfied with this answer. I hope that really the Constitutional Law will become older than the laws of individuals we see very often. And I'm going to set an example of Vukovar where, in recent times, the action plan of seven candidates in the city administration has been adopted by all seven candidates of the majority people, not one representative of the national minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5903	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5904	Dear Mr. President, the question is for the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Entrepreneurship. I also asked a question in writing about the same subject, but I am not satisfied with the answer I received. So I have to ask the question again. Namely, it is about the exploitation of mineral raw materials on the site of Mlada Vodice in the municipality of Pokkallja in the County of Brodo-Posaviska. On yesterday, the unemployment rate in Brod-Posavina County is 25%, or exactly 24.8%. The municipality of Pokkalje with its villages has an express degree of depopulation of demographic decline and 8 months ago, so exactly 21 August 2007, an oral debate was held to approve an extractive field of carbonate raw materials or a shortened calcite for industrial processing, the opening of livestock food plant or additives. However, not eight months, not four months, not five, not six speeds in the decision-making process, there is no answer, and in writing I was given the conclusion that it was in accordance with the provisions of Article 43. Mining law in the selection process. So I ask Mr. Minister how long will the selection process take?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5905	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5906	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, for this matter. So, as you yourself have determined, after receiving, after receiving, therefore, the demands of certain companies for the approval of the Mala Voda field, we have launched an oral and public debate, which was answered primarily by the companies Domino, Domino d.o.o., in bankruptcy, then the company for roads from Slavonski Brod, Cestar from Slavonski Brod, Nasice cement and the company Brod, which is owned by Croatian defenders, therefore, from Slavonski Brod. Each of them proposed its own way of exploiting.../The speaker shut down, and subsequently turned on the... road company for example. proposes an investment based on which stone flour production would begin, therefore, for construction. The "ship" company owned by Croatian defenders suggests an ambitious production of special mineral raw materials that can therefore be used as mineral fertiliser in the production primarily of vegetables, flowers, but also in other, therefore, war production in Croatia. Our cement suggests an investment in the production of industrial raw materials for their needs. Road company, I said, therefore, classic stone flour production, so lime for the needs of the construction industry. Since all offers and all requests have had certain shortcomings, I have asked my professional services to ask, therefore, to supplement requests with concrete questions. And we answer those questions at this point and analyze. What I can safely tell you is that the evaluation and final decision will be made in the next 15 days. As for your questions as you asked in writing, I must say that I have not received such a memo, I will look for it in the ministry, I will be happy to answer you. As I will gladly send you a full analysis after we make the final decision. And it will be brought in in the next 15 days precisely because of the fact that we can employ a 100-thin field on this exploitation field, at least 100 people from the Pokrkalja municipality. I am aware of the unemployment rates in this area, the importance of this project and for the town of Slavonski Brod and for the municipality of Pokrkalje. So we'll make a final decision in the next 15 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5907	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5908	Namely, Mr. Secretary says he didn't see my memo and I got an answer from Mr. Secretary who's here, is he? I must say here that there are 2.5 000 Croatian defenders at the Employment Office in Slavonski Brod. And that the unemployment rate, I repeat again, is the largest in the Republic of Croatia. And that this is a project that can be strongly, for raw material that is in, which is conducted under special, not to say code, or letter P.V., therefore, special value in mining, special value for this mineral raw material carbonate, which can also be used for, in agriculture, but also in the production of livestock food. However, you, Mr. Minister, certainly know because you sent a letter to the County State Attorney's Office that this raw material was also used for the overrun of roads completely illegally, completely illegally, where the Croatian state was damaged by 500 million kuna or 10 million cubic metres of this raw material which went to a non-refund for the overcrowding of roads and state roads in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5909	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5910	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. I would like to ask Ms. Marini Matulović-Dropulic a question and refer to the new Regulation on conditions and criteria for granting consent to start construction. In fact, we had a situation so far that companies that had three or five employees could get jobs, big jobs, and then they would take other companies as subcontractors, and in this way it was that such small companies were making money without work, and the quality of the work done was not appropriate. So I would ask the Minister to explain to us how work is progressing on the issue of these permits and what is obtained in terms of the quality of the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5911	Thank you. Minister Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5912	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. Well, a month ago, you all witnessed the fact that it started talking about a rule that came into force on the 1st of 10.2006. It started from 1.4 this year and unfortunately only a month ago began the story about that rule. It's our old pain, so it's here, of course. I have to say, it's the '99 Construction Act. for years, the adoption of such a regulation, as well as the Construction Act, which was adopted in 2003, specifically requested by the builders to adopt such a rule. Of course, nothing was done, and after that, when we took responsibility in 2004, we started making rules. It's been working for two and a half years. After that, the Regulation was adopted and in this Regulation-making Committee were all HUP, and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, and I must say that we have no major objections to this rule, which is what I am particularly pleased with. Namely, you must know that in Croatia exists according to the Institute of Statistics 10806 companies that are registered for construction. Of which 5277 companies have no single employee. 4061 companies have employees from one to nine workers. So, we have very few companies that have more employees left. So, the regulation was passed and to what is particularly important to say by 10.3 this year, meaning from 1.10.2006 when the regulation came into force until 10.3 this year we received only 579 licence applications. When the last few days were seen in the third month that the regulations would not give up clearly that others had appeared and the last two to three days were submitted another 3000, or 2600 requests. We've solved 699 licenses so far. Only two of them were rejected. Therefore, there is no saying that, that people will not be able to work, and that is why we have also agreed with the HUP and with the Construction Union which is particularly interested in these licences that we will issue licenses under this Regulation to people who, of course, have appeared with a request that we will see for those companies that they will not be able to obtain. I note, of 699, there are only two who have failed to obtain a license, that we will see if there is a need for any changes to the rules. With the fact that I have to say that the Construction Union has asked for a new article to be entered into that regulation that says they need them, that those people, those companies that don't pay the wages that have to be taken away from them. It says something like that in the rule book today, but not like this. Therefore, the Regulation is in force, the Regulation applies and there is no reason for those involved in construction, not engineering, not designing, to get that job or professional supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5913	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5914	I thank the Minister for this explanation. My goal was precisely to explain to the Minister the application of this Regulation because there is a lot of talk in the public about it and those who cannot fulfil the obligations arising from the rules criticise it. But I've heard a lot of people who have serious companies that are satisfied with that rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5915	Thank you. It's Mr. Krešimir Cosic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5916	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to address the question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. Exports of arms and military equipment as well as any other export from the Republic of Croatia to demanding and highly competitive foreign markets can play a significant role in the so-called balance of payments to foreign banks, i.e. insurance as high as possible coverage of Croatian imports with Croatian exports. Exporting arms and military equipment is the only real measure of the competitive capabilities of the Croatian arms and military equipment industry if we can call it that. However, in addition to the top product in the export of arms and military equipment, a strictly defined procedure imposed not only by Croatian legislation but also by a whole series of international agreements and regulations should be respected. Export licences of such character shall be issued by the relevant Commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economy, and the implementation of the entire export transaction shall be controlled by the Ministry of Finance through the Customs Administration. Dear Mr Vice President, in this context, well and clearly defined legal procedures comment on statements from Saturday's meeting of Croatian businessmen with the President of the Republic that an embargo on the export of the gun of the Croatian company HS PRODUCT to Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been ruled out and the possibility of corruption is not excluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5917	Thank you. Vice President Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5918	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Assembly Attorney, for this question. This is obviously a very current issue, and it has many Croatian media dealing intensively these days, so I thank you for the opportunity to give full information and the right answer to this question. So as you said yourself, the export of military equipment and weapons that can be used for commercial purposes is therefore subject to approval by the Ministry of Economy. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship shall issue a special authorisation after the hearing carried out by the Special Commission. This commission is appointed by the Ministry of Economy, and with the representatives of the Ministry of Economy, members of the commission come from the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The first thing I want to say out loud and clear is that no requirement for the export of weapons and military equipment to Bosnia and Herzegovina has ever been rejected. I must say that during 2007, we received three requests in the second half of 2007. Two of the 3.10th and one of 10.10.2007 by HS Product and, of course, according to these requirements, check the hearing on the commission and issue export licences, so military equipment and weapons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These permits are therefore valid at the conclusion of today's day 23.4.2007. The exporting producer's obligation to report to the Ministry of Economy after the expiry of the authorisation on the way in which it is and whether or not it has realised the export under the given authorisation. I must say that I was in touch after these statements and the representative of HS product with the management of HS product, and I must say that the export was carried out by two permits without one export permit being made. In February of this year, more precisely on 1 February this year, the ministry received a new request, but on another importer in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the request matches an export licence issued at 10 months. Therefore, the commission requested further evidence from the company HS product, which is why there was no realisation under the permit issued at the 10th month. So let's recap. No request for authorisation to export military equipment or weapons to Bosnia and Herzegovina until today's day from the Ministry of Economy has been rejected. It is still valid and valid from the 10th month, since a request for a new authorisation was sent to us in February, we asked for an indication that there was no realisation after the previous one. Once we've received the evidence, we'll be able to issue a new permit after the debate on the committee. I therefore reject any objections, any charges of obstruction by the Ministry of Economy. There's no room for such grades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5919	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5920	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for the answer that I believe is extremely important for the proper and accurate information of the Croatian public and the media. Exporting arms and military equipment is a very sensitive political and security issue everywhere, and it is therefore very important to respect the procedures that you have highlighted and I think that based on everything you have said, Croatian media will correctly interpret all this that was said the other day in the president's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5921	Thank you. Mr Furio Radin withdrew because of the official absence of the question. It's Mrs. Brankica Clenko's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5922	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of the Interior, Mr Roncevic. Mr. Minister in Croatia, and especially in urban areas recently, there has been an escalation of violence. When the dark city streets fall, they are no longer as safe as they were before. Robbery, brutal fighting, rape, senseless violence take place, and unfortunately, there are cases of murder infrequently. There are almost no days when there were no shootings, no beatings, or when no bank was robbed, no mail, no bookies. Violence breaks out, and every day it gets bigger. The Corrade case was the highlight of violent behavior. Five people were killed. It took the police force a week to locate him and stop him from killing again. Corrade has acted violently before. He beat people up, humiliated them, threatened them with guns. My question is: How is it possible that a person with such a violent past, a person who has all suffered from them, a person who is prone to alcohol and aggression even owns a weapon? Why didn't the Corrade case like other violence cases alarm your ministry to take appropriate preventive action? Don't you feel Mr. Minister and personally responsible for the fact that Croatian streets are extremely insecure and that violent people are walking around armed to the teeth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5923	Thank you. Minister Roncevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5924	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarians, quite the opposite of what you say, statistics on the movement of crime in the Republic of Croatia say that in the period from 1 to 3 months 2008 compared to the same period in 2007, a decline in crime in the Republic of Croatia has been reported on all grounds. The individual items you're talking about are worrying and police are acting according to the law of the Police Act, the Code of Criminal Procedure. We shall prevent maximum criminal offences and the possibility of criminal offences in accordance with the possibilities, in accordance with the assessment carried out by authorised police officers. In the case of the late General Corrado, there is not a single application, there is not a single application that came to the Croatian police without the Croatian police following it. Multiple homicides in northwestern Croatia, in the area of Varazdin, Croatian police have done absolutely professionally. Four people were killed, it's a sad fact. However, when you look at the dynamics of these murders, the police absolutely immediately acted in investigative and investigative actions, took all the measures, and unfortunately in the action we lost the life of a police officer, which is why we are deeply sorry. We acted according to the law. We've been following the terms of the field. We acted according to the person suspected of committing a crime. We acted in cooperation with, and in coordination with, the state's attorney. And I don't see in this my own personal responsibility, and police officers have solved this case, unfortunately with the human victims of innocent people and the loss of the life of a police officer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5925	Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5926	Mr. Minister! They didn't kill four people, they killed five people. It is obvious, though, that in this country some people are protected and untouchable, no matter what they do. That's what happened in General Corrado's case. The responsibility of the system to which it is headed is unquestionable. I, therefore, ask you on behalf of Croatian citizens, and on behalf of parents concerned about the safety of their children on Croatian streets, to finally take the job you are responsible for more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5927	Thank you. Mr. Representative Petar Milinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5928	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, Mr. Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Damir Polancec. We know that for more than a year and a half activities have taken place in finding a solution to the completion of the course in the City Bank of Osijek. Can you introduce us and the Croatian public to what has been done so far, and is the end of bankruptcy in the city bank close?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5929	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Assembly Attorney. So as you said yourself, we are finally at the conclusion of this long, demanding process, but a process that will be successfully completed. So, at the end of the bankruptcy proceedings at Osijek City Bank, we were in bankruptcy, in a way that the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks and Insurance of Savings managed as one of the creditors to enter into an agreement with lawyers representing part of the savings, a small part of the savings that so far in the judicial process disputed the claims of DABA. So they made a deal. On the basis of these settlements, they also signed an agreement. The State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks and Insurance of Savings Deposits also directed the funds needed to fully pay off all the savings of the City Bank Osijek in bankruptcy. So these days we can expect to pay off every savings in the City Bank of Osijek, all of which will be fully settled. The only believer afterwards, the company in bankruptcy, remains the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks, which will of course take over the rest of the property, complete the bankruptcy process, implement the recapitalisation, announce the recapitalisation of the Croatian Post Bank, which will finally revive and receive a new wind in the core "Agroslovnica" established in the composition of the Croatian Post Bank, which, of course, will offer agricultural producers a brand-new package of products by the Croatian Post Bank. And finally we'll... and implement two objectives: the closure of the bankruptcy of the City Bank Osijek and, on the other hand, the establishment I will say "Agrobanka" or "Agrobusiness" within the Croatian Post Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] City Bank savings Osijek in bankruptcy can expect payment within the next 15 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5930	Thank you. Mr. MP Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5931	Well, Mr. President, I'm happy with the answer. They will be pleased and save the city's banks, and the government has shown that there are no unknowns and unresolved problems for them. And the government quickly overcame the fifth speed and crossing now at six. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5932	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5933	Honored members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! My question also concerns the application of the Regulation on the licensing of construction firms, but from a slightly different angle than fellow Zubovic. And I'll tell you why I'm telling Mr. Prime Minister. It is indisputable that, immediately after the application of this Regulation, since 1 April, major controversy has occurred in its application because of the fact that very strict measures and conditions under which construction firms can carry out certain tasks have been introduced. And according to that rule, the main condition is actually the number of employees, which I believe cannot possibly be the main condition, which is more because companies are also asked for a number of workers of those professions and professions that are lacking in the labour market. It is true that more than half of nearly 10,000 companies do not have any employees. However, I am of course to introduce order in this regard and there is no dilemma. But I am also in favour of protecting those companies that work fairly, to protect companies that have financial and professional stability and proven references in construction, not that more than 80% of companies cannot meet these conditions and remain jobless. I'm asking the prime minister because there have also been criticisms from abroad at the expense of this regulation, because apparently foreign companies are being brought into an unequal position with regard to our companies, so I'm asking that we have such information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5934	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5935	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I have no such information that some criticism has been referred to the Croatian Government's address for this rule abroad. But I ask you if you have them, that at the stop now that it's a regular break, that you give me that and yes, because we want to make it right. You know what the intensity of this rule was. The intensity was, and you gave us the support to put in order. That those companies that only exist on paper or only hire one or two, so-called. The company's ficus, that I can't get big jobs. And that's what HUP was practically asking us to do. And at the end of the day, both the trade unions and the HUP agreed with the rest ministry that those companies that are going to be affected by the regulation, I am not a failure, and you are right, there will be some companies that will be affected by the regulation, but to allow a year of time for workers to be educated, and on the basis of their qualifications, their company can then get this consent. So the intensity is right, it's good, it's like every time it's cut into some sick tissue somewhere. And the sick tissue is when there are companies that get big jobs and they have one or two or three employees. So, then, so-called. engineering companies, so those jobs they got, huge jobs reselling to others, and on the basis of nothing they make a profit, they make some kind of profit for themselves. So the intensity of this rule is that. If we can improve, if there are any objections I ask you to give them to me and we will surely respect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5936	Thank you. Mr. Representative Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5937	It's a little unusual for almost 80% of companies in one activity to lose their jobs and I come from a region where construction is a very important branch of the economy, and where my builders say the rule is unserious... entered into force on 1 April... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5938	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5939	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, members of the government. I'm referring the question to Prime Minister Sanader. I remind you at the beginning that more than five years ago, the Croatian Parliament obliged the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit under one report on the implementation of the Property Compensation Act, taken away during the Yugoslav Communist Government, and under two proposals for a whole law, which will propose a solution to the return and compensation of former owners for the seized property. Unfortunately, to this day this obligation is not respected. It is known that since the 13th century in Croatia there have been different forms of jointly managed private property, which were uniquely regulated in 1894 by the Law on the Law on the Arrangement of Land Communities. Most of it was from urban communities that paid off their assets to the state for decades. The Croatian law of 1947 abolished the land union and took away their property without any right to compensation. There were 1225 of them at that time and they owned 579 acres of pasture and 405,000 acres of forest. So it's not about nationalisation, it's about the ideologically motivated and legally formalized robbery of Croatian peasants. By law of 1996, this property was translated from social status into state ownership status and is now in the foundation of state agricultural land and in the foundation managed by Croatian forests. It is therefore the only form of private and, in this case, corporate property that has not been returned to former owners. It is known that land communities operate in some European Union countries and in our environment such as Italy and Austria in 1994 and the Republic of Slovenia passed the Law on land communities, so it would not be worse to be better than them. It is announced that the government will soon propose a new Law on the availability of state-owned agricultural land, so I ask, in that sense, that it is a prerequisite for the adoption of a fair law for these assets to be returned to people. My question is therefore how and when the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans to resolve this problem permanently and propose a legal solution which will restore the property of former land communities but also enable them to be restored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5940	Thank you very much. You're a little out of time. Please be more specific about asking questions. Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5941	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, I'm asking you all of this because I can see that you've prepared that question to give me that question with all that information. We'll check about these aspects you've been talking about. What I can say in principle is that the government, or competent institutions, systematically return property as it can be handled. Now, before we pass this law that you've been telling me if we can do this, I can't tell you right now, so I'm asking you to give it to me because this is the question in the way that you presented it, I think it's touching and a little deeper, and in history, and we need to see what's going on with it. So at this point, I can't answer you, but I'm sure we'll deal with it and you'll get a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5942	Thank you. Mr. Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5943	Mr. President of the Parliament, allow me to hand over the materials and books of the coordination of the Croatian community from which this problem is very well-developed and can certainly help.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5944	Thank you. Here you go. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5945	Thank you very much. I ask my question to Minister Shuker. At its session, the government supported the introduction of a single tax number and tasked the Ministry of Finance to refer the draft bill to the government. Only that cabinet session was held on September 20th, 2006. And the deadline that your ministry and you personally won was the end of November of that same year in 2006. I don't know if you heard me correctly, Minister. It's 2006. We're in 2008. So it took you a year and a half to finally refer to the Government's procedure the proposal for a tax code and now the Government is supposed to discuss this bill by one and a half days late. So you ministers are tragically late. A very simple question arises, and why is that? We all know that introducing a tax number is one of the strongest instruments in the fight against corruption. So now I'm asking you a perfectly logical question. Is it simply your complete disregard for the work you're doing that you're a year and a half late, or is it perfect for you and this government, so by passing that law, you're as late as you can? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5946	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5947	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Given the very important project I expected to get on this left hand side of the assembly support for this project, the project this government had for the first time had the courage to refer something like this to the procedure. The second thing is, it's just like you said the tax number and it's not a tax number, it's a mandatory identification number in which all state administration bodies participate. This law requires a series of changes, a series of alignments with all state institutions without speaking technologically, and if the state administration is not informed, then the practical application of this law is impossible. This law is not late, this law is passed in time, and is scheduled to enter into force in 1.1.2009. We have discussed in the past year and a half primarily because of Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs with all institutions, with all NGOs how this law should look, what it should be implemented, in the end, to achieve two basic objectives: to introduce order into the tax system, to prevent corruption. On the other hand, do not burden Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs with anything. And you have to agree if more than 30 state bodies participate in this process, then it's an extremely demanding, extremely extensive job. We had that law prepared last year, somewhere in the summer. However, given the importance of the law, since the government was the first government to have the political courage to pass such a law, we gave up the bill two months before the election. For one simple reason, a law like this will certainly bring order to the state, and it will no longer be able to enable some individuals to call, without arguments, someone to take another right to degrade the law and declare it a pre-election law. So, colleague Stazic, both of you and your colleagues from the SDP, I expect when this law, I hope, in fact, that when that law is found in the parliamentary procedure that we will all support it. Because at the end of the law, if we all tell the Croatian public that our goal is to seduce order in the country, that our goal is to fight corruption, then I see no reason why everyone together would not support that law. Or I might ask myself if, in some cases, there was danger and fear of passing that law, and they want to insult it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5948	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5949	You ministers, knock on the open door. You support this side for that law you have. You've had it in 2006, but you don't have the support for a tragic delay in passing that law. It takes you a year and a half to pass a law that is the strongest instrument in the fight against corruption, and that is why we call you. Because for a year and a half, you've been in a state of corruption and you're making it difficult to pass that law. But it's not just this tax code, so you're tragically late in other things. You were supposed to propose six legislative proposals on compliance with the European Union in the first quarter of this government's plan, and you proposed two. So, I don't know, I don't know, maybe it was you, you,.../The speaker shut down, so he turned back on the... the state's suffering and the damage to that delay of yours. So, for example, the World Bank,... The World Bank's first... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 100 million euros and she didn't get it because of your delay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, maybe you don't care what the citizens think about it. I'm just surprised you're not even afraid of Janka Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5950	Thank you. Let's not, let's not spread the subject, let's concentrate on questions and answers, please, I suggest that when MPs ask questions, that short address should not be thanked to the President of the Parliament for giving the word to someone to whom the word belongs. Therefore, neither do you list titles nor anything like that. Look to the one you ask the question, it'll be rational, it'll be a short period of time, and we'll all be satisfied, and let's not interpret the will of the people because no one has an exclusive right. It's Mr. Representative Frano Matušić's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5951	My question, I refer my question to Foreign Minister Jandrokovic. Mr Jandrokovic, how do you assess meetings with European country officials you have recently met in France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, and how do you assess meetings with representatives of the European Commission of the European Parliament? I am interested, and I believe the Croatian public, who gave you your views, especially in relation to progress, the Republic of Croatia and to the possible rapid completion of negotiations with the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5952	Thank you. Mr. Minister Jandrokovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5953	Dear Mr. Representative, the fact is, it was a very successful tour of whose messages I wish to share with you here, and I must say immediately at the beginning of all meetings, whether in the European Parliament and the European Commission or during bilateral meetings with the foreign ministers of the Netherlands, Germany, France, there is strong support from the Republic of Croatia on our way to the European Union and NATO, but there is also one increase in expectations of the role Croatia should play in the area of South East Europe. The message we received from Commissioner Olia Reina, who is key, but perhaps not well-recognized and from the Croatian public, is that if Croatia meets everything we announced by 6 months, then we fully meet all the criteria for opening the chapter and prepare all the negotiating positions in all the negotiating chapters we can expect to receive a map of the road for the conclusion of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia in the entry into the European Union by the beginning of autumn or the end of the summer 2009. So this is a key message, if Croatia successfully meets what it has announced in the next two months and for which there is both political readiness and probability that we will do so there are very real prospects to get therefore, a road map for the conclusion of the negotiations. And that these negotiations really will be completed by the beginning of autumn 2009. In addition to the European Union, we have clearly discussed the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the NATO Alliance, we have received very clear congratulations, commendation to the Croatian Government for what has been done. We asked our colleagues to make the ratification process in the parliaments of NATO member states as quickly as possible. So that by the spring of 2009, we can become a full member of the NATO alliance. Furthermore, the role of the Republic of Croatia as non-permanent members of the Security Council was discussed. Of all my associates, I have been commended for the work of our mission in New York so far, but also the policies that we are conducting, the ability to coordinate all activities with the Member States of the European Union. So that's one added value to our foreign policy and our international reputation and position that we have. As regards the region, as I said at the beginning, Croatia is expected to have an increased engagement in stabilising the situation in the area of Southeast Europe, Croatia is a country that is recognised as a model, as a regional leader and that is an obligation, which obliges us to help all those countries that have ambitions to become members of the European Union and NATO and I believe that we will succeed in this. And the last element I would like to emphasise is the growing interest of our international partners, the member states of the European Union for enhanced economic co-operation with the Republic of Croatia, Croatia's entry into the European Union, NATO, in the first place, thus increasing the interest of foreign investors to invest in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we are expected to prepare the best atmosphere, the better the atmosphere for their investments, legal certainty, that's what we're working on. It is known what measures have been taken by the government to make this happen so that one final assessment of this journey can be that we have strong support for joining the European Union, NATO, that our increased engagement in Southeast Europe is expected, that our international position is better than it has ever been, which should eventually be infused by an increased number of foreign investments, and thus by increasing the standard of living and increasing the employment of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5954	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5955	Thank you. I am pleased with the answer and, of course, congratulations to all those who have contributed to these great foreign-political successes of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5956	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Anton Mance's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5957	My question would be related to the area of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, i.e. today we are witnessing that the Gorski Kotar from Ravna Gora to Tuhobić is a construction site and I am pleased that works are being carried out throughout the section of that road. Also, in this section, that the construction of a river bypass where Minister Kalmeta was started, I witnessed the signing of the contract. But my question for Minister Calmet is about this part of the section from St. Kuzm to Križišč. When the works begin, I believe that this third part of the stock that I consider in the eastern part of our county or the eastern gates of Rijeka is, therefore, very significant, so I would ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5958	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, maybe Calmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5959	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So it's about the last share of the Rijeka bypass, about the shares from St. Kuzm to Križišč, one of the shares that is 8.4 km long but is very demanding because about 30% of the shares are located in the facilities and is therefore relatively expensive, somewhere around 850 million kuna. When it comes to this stock, I must say that a public tender has been carried out, that a contractor has been selected and that all this has been sent to the consent of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, since the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is co-financed the project with 40m euros. As soon as this consent is obtained from that European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, works on that share will begin. We expect that it will certainly be before summer and that the final construction of that last section of the Rijeka bypass will be completed as planned in 2009. As we talk about this Rijeka hub, I must say that by the end of the year, the D-404 road that connects the Rijeka port with the east exit from Rijeka, and in the next four-year plan that will be in the government somewhere in the autumn will certainly include a new bypass of Rijeka as well as a joint highway from the yellow pool to Rijeka. Here, I'm going back to this question. At the end of that last section will then be completed this bypass of Rijeka which was very difficult, building very demanding, but here will be the year and the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5960	Thank you. Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5961	Well, here I am satisfied with the answer given the deadlines and the familiar problem that was before. So this deadline is really acceptable and I thank the Ministry of Employment and to get rid of these papers and to choose a performer. I'm happy with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5962	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vedran Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5963	My question is to Mr. Damir Byse, Minister of Tourism. Dear Minister, it is evident how important the Government of the Republic of Croatia attaches importance to tourism as one of the most important drivers for the development of the Croatian economy. These measures are reflected through the support provided directly by the Government to small businesses in tourism and through the assistance of the entire tourism system. In addition to the goal of continuing the developmental leap of Croatian tourism, and of making it even clearer to create, present and protect a recognizable and unique picture of Croatia as a tourist destination, which is certainly predicting the ministry's 2008 programme. Dear Mr. Minister, on which a new development step in tourism is based and if you have information on investments that will be realised in this tourist year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5964	Thank you. Mr. Minister Damir Byce. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5965	Mr. President, Your Honor. I'll say I have to agree with you. Croatian tourism is extremely important in the Croatian economy. He's on a take-off, but he needs a new development jump. What should be noted is that right now we have the opportunity to improve those things that we think need to be improved, which is a question of extending the tourist season and filling the tourist facilities we can do with the measures of the government and this resolution ministry, of course. This will take some time, however, we want to raise workers and better training of tourism workers to a new level through raising quality in the tourism sector through solving issues, and we should not forget the “bron field” and “greenfield” investment. What I would point out is that a good part of these measures will start already this year, because in the old programmes as needed for success we also have new programmes particularly related to education. However, I would point out that, of course, we also need to work on documents, in addition to wanting a coordinated, controlled and co-ported tourism. Here, just yesterday we had the first working group meeting to work on a deep analysis of tourism, something the Prime Minister indicated last year that we should do and we immediately started the same with new partners, which are social partners, they're professional associations, they're those who work in tourism. We will try to make someone I would say shooting the state of tourism, but also proposals to increase the competitiveness of Croatian tourism. In particular, we have data, and I would like to mention that which is very interesting. For this year, it is said that, according to the survey that we had among entrepreneurs, about 7.1. billion kunas will be invested in Croatian tourism, most of which in raising completely new capacities when we talk about raising quality. This is particularly important, but also in the reconstruction of the old, so capacity and rise to a higher level. A good deal will be invested by the county and the tourist community. It should not be forgotten that the state will invest more than 6 billion kuna through a series of major projects in road construction this year. What I would point out is that last year's poll stressed that some 14 billion kuna will be invested over the next four years as far as the private sector is concerned. However, when the sum is added up and this year it turns out that this four-year forecast will actually be carried out only in two years. This means that we have an accelerated investment cycle and we believe for the sake of a series of measures that this government has implemented, especially for the sake of spatial plans and the provision of a reasonable jump, and I am confident that we will continue. I think that's the best I'd say an illustration of that developmental leap in tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5966	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5967	Here I am pleased with the answer and I want the Minister of Tourism a lot of success in his work, although at first it was a little bit like this that the minister is not with the sea so that tourism will be a little harder to cope with in tourism. However, we see that he is taking the right steps and we wish him much success.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5968	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5969	Thank you very much. My question is to the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Ani Lovrin. Namely, Chapter XXIII of the negotiations. The judiciary and fundamental human rights fall within those chapters that fall under the fulfillment of the so-called The political criteria again in the clubs dealing with the accession of the European Union are considered those without which one country cannot enter the European Union. My question, Madam Minister, would be that, as one of the last chapters, we were given the criteria for opening this chapter at the end of December of last year, and that we have six very large criteria in that chapter as you progress in meeting these criteria, given the plan we have made to European institutions, which is to actually meet all the conditions for opening chapters by summer this year. Since there is great interest in this area and the Croatian public, please provide information on where you are at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5970	Thank you. Minister Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5971	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam MPs, I will be very pleased to inform the Croatian Government in our business of meeting the criteria for opening, but let me take this opportunity to say that this issue of judicial reform and the fight against corruption and is extremely important within the political issue, above all because the Croatian Government has invested and is making additional efforts to ensure that the Croatian judiciary and the Croatian judiciary as a whole are effective, efficient, professional and independent and therefore the Croatian government is making efforts to create a legislative legal framework and an institutional framework both for judicial reform and for ensuring corruption. As regards the dynamics of the negotiations as known in Chapter XXIII. The judiciary and fundamental rights, Croatia has received three criteria for opening, three main criteria, which is the revised action plan for judicial reform, the revised National Anti-Corruption Programme and the adoption of plans for the full implementation of the Constitutional Law on First National Minorities and the Return Action Plan. As regards the dynamics of the first criterion, which is the revised action plan for the reform of the judiciary, it was addressed, the real draft was sent to Brussels on 28 March to the European Commission and are currently under way of an informal consultation in order to finalise the final text for evaluation and verification by the European Commission. I must say that this action plan covers the overall reform of the judiciary, that it has 151 measures aimed primarily at the main problems of the judiciary, which is to reduce the backlogs and speed up judicial proceedings. As regards the second criterion, which is the draft anti-corruption strategy, it was addressed to the European Commission on 17 April and informal consultations are under way, and the revised action plan with the strategy is in the design phase and will be addressed to the European Commission at the beginning of the second week. And as for the third criterion, which is the Action Plan for full implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Return Action Plan. The return plan is already in the European Commission, and the Constitutional Law Action Plan is being drafted and will be addressed to the Commission this week. In the end, there's something else I want to say. That despite the flat-rate negative assessments of the Croatian government's delay in proposing laws that harmonize Croatia's legislation with the legal gains of the European Union, I must say that only in the section of the Ministry of Justice's jurisdiction are we fully in line with the deadlines and that four laws are planned according to the Croatian Parliament according to the national programme, and that they are planned for the second quarter, so by the end of the 6th month, six laws plus three, or four laws confirming international conventions. So here's just the closing line. In accordance with the Croatian government's plan by the end of 6 months, it will be sent to the full criteria for opening negotiations in Chapter XXIII. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5972	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5973	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. What we have heard from you now is actually full of faith that this political support that we have from the Member States of the European Union and the institutions that the foreign minister has just spoken of will actually have full support from us in that we will do our part of the task. I'd like to thank you and your associates who are working on it, and once again I'd like to point out that it's a big deal, that it's a so-called. a horizontal reform which will, above all, bear fruit and bring well-being to all our Croatian citizens, and that is something that is a political criterion for entering the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5974	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5975	Mr. President, I would like to refer the question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Polancec. Just before the 2007 parliamentary elections, the government offered citizens the purchase of shares of HT. With the same citizens' money, the government paid television videos and popularised the purchase of shares. There was deliberate euphoria, there was talk of easy profit, no work, more creation... Citizens, instead of being warned about the risk of such investments, are even encouraged to take credit for the purchase of shares. [[You don't understand.]] The sale of shares, more specifically the pre-election sale of the property of all citizens of this country below the real cost of not talking. Consciously or not, the future of Croatian citizens was threatened for the benefit of the election. For the stock market crisis and fall in value at the end of 2007, and just before the election, the prime minister blamed the SDP and our proposal to introduce taxes on rich, capital gains. The prime minister then said, "The drop in stock prices can be caused by irresponsible statements by some politicians." My question is: A valuable Croatian capital market has fallen by more than 60 billion kuna in recent months. HT shares are almost at the price level for which citizens bought them last fall, and there is no Capital Profit Tax Act. Who's to blame now, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5976	Mr. Vice President Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5977	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I wish you had looked a little more carefully and watched and analyzed and analyzed the videos that were spinning right before HT's initial offer, as well as before INA's initial public offerings. If you had then you would have seen that these were primarily educational videos in which we invited citizens of the Republic of Croatia to understand that entering shareholders is a risky business. We didn't invite anyone to buy shares, but we educated the citizens in which they can buy the shares, which are beneficial to themselves, but also what risks, constantly stressing, which risks it carries with it. We did not pay these videos from the revenues generated by the sale of HT shares. However, from the revenue generated by the sale of HT shares, we have paid back the debt to Croatian pensioners, I ask you to understand once again all together well, which was also our natural obligation based on the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. As for the recent developments in the capital market. So, they're consequences primarily of global movements. First of all, the financial crisis in the American market caused by the so-called inappropriate or risky second-rate mortgage loans, based on which many US banks have written off their large rankings, which led to interest rates growth, and then, consequently, to the exit of many investors from the shares. The decline in the capital market did not occur in the Republic of Croatia but throughout the world. And believe me, there's a big stock market like this. The Shanghai Stock Exchange, where there has been a far greater decline than that in the Croatian capital market. By the way, be told when we're talking about a fall, a profit or a failure. No Croatian citizen, not one institutional investor who bought shares of INA or shares of HT, has lost Mr Dragovan to this day, and I also warn you, but everyone has earned it. As for your claim that we encouraged among other things, the consequence of many buying credit shares, I must tell you that everything or less than 17% of the transactions made when we talk about the share in which Croatian citizens participated, is realised from the loan. Everything else, so 83% of the shares were purchased from the savings of Croatian citizens, and no credit. This is accurate information for you and it is accurate data, as is true and data that the capital market in Croatia is recovering over the last week, that indices are back positive. And that's true. I still believe in the future of the Croatian capital market which would definitely be today in a worse situation that by any chance there has been a realization of so-called. the capital gains tax for which, by the way, you have never made too many explanations or explanations that could be used by introducing such a law on the Croatian market for Croatian citizens, for Croatian companies. It's a brief expertise on the capital market, that's the answer to your question. And one more time. We have educated Croatian citizens by telling them at every moment that the risks of entering shareholders and buying shares are. And no investor who bought HT and INA shares has lost until today, and I believe they won't. And if, of course, this famous capital tax law of yours were introduced, then, of course, the loss would have happened. And I'm asking you now, that by chance that tax has been introduced to apply now capital gains tax when the market falls. Does that mean we should now pay those who have lost? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5978	Thank you. Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5979	Your Honor, Mr. Minister! You're here to answer questions, not to ask questions. We all know stock prices can go up and down and it's roulette and there's no profit overnight. A responsible government that cares about citizens would tell them that. The irresponsible government and the irresponsible prime ministers don't do it. They always find the culprits in others.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5980	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Antun Korushec's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5981	Thank you very much. My question is to the defence minister, Mr. Branko Vukelic. Mr. Minister! As you know, the current Decision on the establishment of medals for participation in military redistribution operations and in exceptional actions was introduced the medals "Bleak", "Summer of '95.", "Storm" and Medal for extraordinary ventures. My question, which will be in the form of Mr. Minister's proposal, has been referred to you with an application to launch activities under its legal powers to establish the Bilogora Medal, Papuk, Psunj'91. which could be allocated to members of the active and reserve composition of the military and regular forces of the Republic of Croatia for participation in the operations of the release of Bilogor, Papuk and Psunja during the month of October to December 1991. A year. I'm going to tell you the reasons why I'm asking you to initiate the activities that were led under the names "Papuk '91.""orcan '91." and "Okos 10" freed a total of 2 thousand 275km of square Croatian territory. So four times as much as in Operation Flash. The second reason I propose this is because these are the first successful operations carried out to release the occupied territory of Croatia in the Homeland War. The third further reason is that the operations of the release of western Slavonia from Sava to Drava were for the first time exactly militaryly planned and planned and thus became threatening later major Croatian Liberation Operations. Another extremely important reason is that the significance of these operations for the defence of Croatia is extremely important, as without a change in the attitude of forces in Western Slavonia, a further course or development of the course of war would be highly questionable. I must point out that until these operations, the Croatian Army mostly just retreated. Here, on behalf of a number of defense associations from that territory, I ask you, Mr. Minister, to support this proposal and indeed to launch the activities for the establishment of the proposed medals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5982	Thank you very much. Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5983	Dear Parliamentarian, first of all, I would like to say that I have known about this initiative for the past few months how much I am a defence minister because my colleague Minister Jandrokovic has already mentioned it to me. I personally support the initiative. I just need to remind all of us here together that there are two laws that regulate recognitions and medals, and that this is the Law on Service in Armed Forces and the Law on Features and Recognitions, and that this Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia in the last amendment it has experienced in the Croatian Parliament also has Article 4a. which in some ways protects the dignity of the Homeland War and specifically speaks of medals and confessions, medals related to the Homeland War. From what it seems now, it is probably necessary and to change the law itself but here is your initiative and initiative of all the defenders I support and we will initiate the procedure to get through the debate, through a clear alignment with all the competent authorities to come to a legal basis for such a medal to be awarded.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5984	Thank you. Mr. Representative Antun Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5985	I'm pleased with Mr. Minister's response. Thank you, indeed, on behalf of a number of defenses. I thank you. I just asked for a real initiative, the reasons are numerous, and I know it's not a matter of one day, that it takes time, but this proposal of mys truly and the defenders deserve that the Bilogora-Papuk-Psunj medals are established in 1991. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5986	Thank you. It's Mrs. Biljana Borzana's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5987	Thank you. I wanted to refer my question to Mrs. Kosor, but since she obviously had other things to do, I would ask Mr. Polancec to answer my question. In fact, the standard of citizens collapses from day to day, and that is definitely a fact that makes no sense to embellish and deny that it is not. The famous return of prices to bread, milk and oil to the level before the collection probably helped wash the unclean conscience of this government and unfortunately none of the Croatian citizens. He collected and additionally collects from day to day a whole series of other products, and new food gatherings have been announced. What was the government doing to that? She set up a commission, a food commission, an energy commission, then that ridiculous Price Commission. Anyway, nothing important. What did the commission bring? The strategic decision will be met when they were at a meeting in January "we will meet in March". What's in it for us? Nothing. But the commission definitely does not solve the problem, but solves the problem with a wise macroeconomic policy that this government obviously does not have. My question is whether, in its recognizable style, a new Commission will now be established to monitor that Price Commission, or do you think some concrete measures will be taken in terms of improving the economic situation or increasing the standards of citizens in our country?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5988	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5989	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Madam Parliamentarians, I must, of course, deny you and say that your claims do not stand. So, deeply aware of the facts of what is happening on the global market, first of all with the biggest price growth generators in the world and so on in Croatia. In the middle of last year, the Croatian government decided to react, primarily to the rise in prices of crude oil and oil derivatives, primarily in the Mediterranean area from which we are mostly supplied. That's when we introduced the swimming excises. Thanks to this, we gave up the state budget of over 170 million kuna in favour of Croatian citizens and of course the Croatian economy. Croatia as well as most of Europe but also the world has hit a major elemental drought that has led to the rise in prices primarily of cereals, hence basic raw materials in the food industry that generates food prices. We are aware of these facts in the 12th month of last year, so we have allocated an additional 450 million kuna to address the negative consequences of natural disasters or droughts. Deeply aware that this will not be enough, we have been preparing ourselves since the first day of the appointment of this government during which we are aware of the fact that the governor of the Croatian National Bank announced a far higher or I will say twice the rate of inflation in Croatia for this year than the one realised last year. We decided to react. We have reacted in a way that we have frozen the price of energy, two basic energy sources, primarily the price of electricity for both the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for the entire industry, the complete economy. This is believe the biggest measure to help further develop and grow the economy in Croatia. On the other hand, when we talk about gas as another very significant energy, and that's where we reacted. We have reacted in a way that we have increased the price of gas only for HEP and for Kutin Petrochemy while for all other consumers in Croatia we have frozen the price of gas for both industrial consumers, large consumers and citizens until summer this year. Of course, this has had a major impact on price stabilisation and on lower consumer prices growth in Croatia than in other Central and Eastern European countries. And in the end, we get to the commission. So we achieved two things by reducing the price of bread, milk and oil. On the one hand, of course, we reduced the prices of these three basic food products and, on the other hand, we sent a very strong message, a message to everyone who was at that moment preparing to increase the price to monitor the trend of prices, the justification of their requirements for raising. And believe me, we've discouraged many of them from making dim money and raising prices at that point. The result of that for you for information, and I believe you didn't know what I just said because you've been dealing with more sensitive subjects than those at the national level, so the answer to you is in the next one. Prices in Croatia or inflation in Croatia for the first quarter of this year, especially for the third month are far lower than for example inflation in Hungary, Latvia, the countries of the coastal world, a total of ten Central European countries that are now in the European Union and have an inflation rate higher than Croatia. When we talk about some other indicators of success or failure. For your information, the trend of reducing unemployment continues, and Croatia is re-recording the lowest unemployment rates at the moment. So we are on a good path, and commissions, of course, serve their purpose and provide answers to the most prominent questions. This government knows it and will do it in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5990	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Biljana Borzana, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5991	I thank you, but of course I'm not happy with the answer, everyone else is to blame, except for the Croatian government. It's a good thing you mentioned the drought, because it's a pity that every year we have to pray to God that there's no elemental accident, and we know that irrigation, draining, that these are the things that the government has to invest in, so that there's not just this huge damage that you have to pay money in. I'm so happy you didn't blame the SDP and our economic policy for what you're doing wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5992	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5993	Dear Mr. Minister Bishop, I'm asking you a very big question. On the media, Velika Gorica, a press conference, accused the Ministry of Culture of delaying works on the highway Zagreb-Vika Gorica-Sisak and doing so on the part of Gradici, Donja Lomnica and accused the Ministry of doing so. She stated that she was late for archaeological research in the area, that a solution was made late. Mr. Minister, is that true? And will you be kind enough to tell us where the exhibits will be delivered, or objects that will be found at that location.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5994	Thank you. Mr Bozo Bishop, Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5995	That's incorrect, Mr. Representative! Such a claim is the result of either ignorance or complete ignorance of the problem or perhaps something else. Archaeologists do their work very consciously, it did not bake hot buns and it goes overnight. Archaeologists work on all roads and on all other infrastructure projects in Croatia and there are no projects behind them. So neither is this project of the Zagreb-Sisak highway. The fact is, and many of you know it, it is actually a good part of the old road Petovje-Siscia, a Roman road that even partly passes through Kustoshi and one part and Petrinjska street where it is marked. And of course, there will be numerous archaeological sites on that road. But there's another problem here. Velika Gorica, our Turkish capital, seems to have grown, fortunately, into a large Croatian town, but remains a Turkish capital when it comes to museums and culture at all. It has a small museum in which the state of several Turkish boxes and costumes, one table and a few chairs, but unfortunately, they are not aware that now numerous archaeological findings from this site that you mentioned, and other localities in this part, because it is very, very rich, there are areas... The reader's nearby and this is a very rich locality, numerous villas of rustics that will still be found and found this part, create a multitude of archaeological buildings that need to be located somewhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Velika Gorica had to count on it and, of course, build an appropriate museum, because in that small museum of the Turopolje type, if I may say so, which is very beautiful in a historic building but there is no space. Archaeologists have been working on this site that you mentioned between Gradic and Lomnica since, since the late autumn of 2006, and because of us and because of archaeologists, there will be no delay.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5996	Thank you. Mr. Kundic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5997	I'm very pleased with your answer, but I'd like to update, as far as Gradic is concerned, I don't know, it's known to everyone that our mayor has been practicing plowing and a deep ridge last fall, so maybe he's disrupting the gauges and highways, so there's been a stalemate, because we're already doing this, just our big-gorical chapter intensively. However, we know well, me and Minister Shuker that we will win that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5998	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u5999	Mr. President, I'm asking Minister Ivan Shuker. These days, the Assembly of Shareholders, our companies in Croatia, are making decisions on annual accounting and dividend payments. The announcements in Croatia will pay 4 billion and 600 million kuna dividends, and that's right in those companies where the great co-owners are foreign persons, or foreign companies. That's how it's gonna work, for example. From paying off this amount of dividend, let's say at least get a billion and 400 million kuna, deute telecom billion and 200 million kuna, Ericson in that, in that comparison far less than 176 million kuna. If there was an Income Tax Act, which is paid on dividends that you abolished by changing income tax in 2004 at 15%, as previously calculated, the state budget and, or local units would receive an additional 690 million kuna. These are the funds that could be used to recover part of the costs in health care, for social purposes, etc. So I ask you, how do you explain to Croatian citizens that they have to pay taxes for each of their salaries, or pensions, and that the owners of capital-based capital receive not have to pay a single reduction in taxes?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6000	Thank you, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6001	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, ma'am, so I am most of all pleased that there is no more positive zero in Croatia. People invest their resources to make money. And therefore, this socialist and communist approach to the economy no longer exists. That's one thing. It's another thing. If we were to deal with, analytically, what was the income from the income tax, when there was an income tax obligation, the payment of 15% of the dividend tax, then they would see that it was several times lower than the profit tax income today. Apparently, that dividend tax, which was paid to pay dividends to those who wanted to do so, was detimizing and forcing entrepreneurs to take that profits in some other way. So, the moment we abolished the dividend tax, after 20% of the profit tax was paid to the owner, shareholders at their annual assembly decided what to do with the dividend. So that move proved correct. You can see how much the profit tax was in 2003, I think it was somewhere around 4 billion, now it's over nine billion kuna. It's another thing. It's not true that someone pays, someone doesn't pay. The salaries of company employees are the cost of the company. So, when that cost with the other costs is deducted from income with all those legal provisions as it comes to the base of taxation on profits. You've made one incorrect finding again. It's not true that someone takes that money and works with them so they don't pay their taxes. So you give 20% of the profit tax. But also, in the election campaign, you came out with a proposal to introduce a capital gains tax. You have been told by the citizens of the business world in Croatia clearly not. We who have been told that we do not want to introduce a tax on capital gains, but that in such a way we want to encourage investment in the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizens have clearly said yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6002	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6003	So let me start with this at the end. It's incorrect that the citizens said no. Citizens have been surveyed, 70% of citizens said they wanted to introduce one such tax in the polls. But I'll tell you one other thing. Because foreigners will not pay dividend taxes in Croatia, do not benefit them. They will pay that tax in their home country because most countries in Europe pay capital tax. The Croatian budget, i.e. Croatian citizens who will not collect this revenue, will be damaged. And this is your way of explaining that taxes are paid before and through profit tax it's also not true. A man who gets paid if he makes more than 1600 kunas has to pay his taxes. One who gets a million kunas will not pay a single lira of taxes, or dividend income. So they're not in an equal position for people who live off work and people who live off capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6004	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6005	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd like to refer my question to Mr. Bozidar Calmeta. In the last ten years in Croatia, the interest in maritime calling has been reduced. Our shipmen have often pointed out the lack of officership. We know that somewhere I think by the 1990s, sailors had the right to an unfettered job internship. In conversation with the seamen themselves, the problem is often highlighted by meeting their working conditions, dissatisfaction, a great desire for this problem to be resolved especially if we keep in mind the elderly who are not able to conduct their daily jobs well, and also often because of their health conditions they are not able to extend the matrix and thus obtain the conditions for their retirement. My question is: What activities does the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure take or will be taken to enable or prescribe an unfettered job internship for Croatian sailors?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6006	Thank you. Mr. Minister Calmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6007	Thank you. Yes, well, the introduction of a well-infected maritime service would indeed be the best conclusion of a social reform that we have started and with which, since 1.1 this year, all Croatian sailors have been introduced into a single health tax and pension system since 2008. However, that question is not simple. It's a complex question and we're thinking about it. We have also formed a working group from different areas that will look at it all together, and it is clear that there is also a need to hold a broad consultation when it comes to, when it comes to, otherwise, the benefits of a work internship for certain issues. We include these certainly social partners, probably the Economic Social Council and after we do all this, depending on what the results of all these consultations and talks in this business are, whether we move or not. So we're looking good at it. We are working on preparing everything to make it happen, and whether and when I say it will depend on what the results of our talks, consultations and agreements will be, and with all the other partners that are important in making these decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6008	Thank you. Mr. Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6009	I am pleased with the answer and thank Mr. Kalmeta and I am sure that this government will find a solution and will soon refer this Assembly to a proposal to amend and supplement the law in order to enable Croatian sailors to regain their benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6010	Thank you. It is Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6011	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Damir Polancec. Mr. Vice-President, a special place in this government's programme for this term of office has a small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. The government will implement a whole series of measures to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises during the period mentioned, and mainly in the support policy. I believe that all our entrepreneurs expect you to respond after the adoption and adoption of the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Encouraging Programme, which brings this programme, which it brings primarily to our entrepreneurs, and accordingly, I ask you to answer me about the question that entrepreneurs are asking on a daily basis when a grant tender will be opened in 2008 and in what amount of this support will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6012	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6013	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank Mrs. Parliamentarians for this matter. So, small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Croatia as well as craftsmen have proved to be the most tough part of our economy and their importance in the overall national economy of the Republic of Croatia is actually growing and stronger every year. Let me take out a few figures that say that in favor of it. Over 99% or 99.4% of all registered entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia are actually from the category of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Over 65% of all employees in the Republic of Croatia are currently employed in small and medium-sized enterprises. 44% of Croatia's total GDP is created by small and medium-sized enterprises. These are data that talk enough about the power of small businesses in Croatia and the fact that more than 40% of the direct export of the Republic of Croatia is to be achieved by these very small companies. 895000 people today work in small and medium-sized companies, i.e. Croatian craftsmen. All of this is the result of continued work, a work aimed at naturally strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises and their importance in the national economy of the Republic of Croatia. In the last four years, a series of incentive programmes have been realised by applying the National Plan for Encouragement of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. One of the most important and significant incentive programmes is interest subsidisation. A total of 4 billion kunas have been extended over the last three years, four years I apologize to small and medium-sized companies where the Ministry of Economy with regional self-government units subsidized interest so that interest on these loans is 2%. More than 560 million kuna has been invested in entrepreneurship infrastructure primarily in the equipment of entrepreneurship zones, making it into so-called entrepreneurship infrastructure. non-refundable support. We accepted and adopted the Small and Medium Business Encouragement Programme for the period from 2008 to 2013. After that, he was also considered at GSV and I must say that I am extremely pleased because he received extremely high reviews of our social partners both representatives of the trade unions and of course the Croatian Employers' Association. Based on this programme, which is the result of previous good experiences, the European Union guidelines and, of course, the very high quality suggestions that we receive through the surveys conducted by the employers themselves, we have prepared and developed an operational programme for 2008. He's going to the Economic and Social Council next week, although it's not our responsibility, but we want to comment on him with our partners. Afterwards, it goes to the government and by the middle of the 5th month, I dare say, we will be able to call tenders for grants to Croatian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, especially support for therefore subsidisation and construction of infrastructure in entrepreneurship areas. So the 5th month is the month when we will do so and when all interested people will be able to apply everything in order to strengthen the small and medium-sized economy in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6014	Thank you. Mrs. Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6015	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I hope that what is really going to happen in May will still leave enough time for all entrepreneurs to implement exactly those projects that may have already started or were about to end, and that will very much help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6016	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Vesna Škulić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6017	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Mrs. Kosor, but I don't know who's on behalf of Mrs. Kosor. State Secretary. Now, since I'm listening to Mr. Polancec, I've come to give up my question. I have a feeling the citizens of the Republic of Croatia don't know how nice they are. But I guess a man only sees well with his heart, so I'll go get it. But the Republic of Croatia signed a little over a year ago and then ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Parliament not long ago. Since this government has so far failed to comply with any regulation with the Convention, in the Republic of Croatia, the rights of persons with disabilities are regulated by more than 270 regulations. I ask you, when will you begin to comply with these 270 regulations? I'm just going to give you a few reasons why you need to get in line as soon as possible. So disabled people in Croatia live with a maximum of 270,00 to 1.200,00 kuna per month if they are not in a working relationship. The employment rate is low no matter what the fund exists. You haven't done anything about liberating people with disabilities from paying VAT on importing cars. You rated your mother's children with difficulties with 2,000.00 kuna. Personal disability has not increased since 2000, and inflation is known. The services of a personal assistant are used only by 200 people, and the Law on personal assistants and no trace. You are unable to categorize the most difficult people with disabilities. So far, your greatest reach is the establishment of working groups and commissions. I wonder when they'll finally start dealing with the problem of people with disabilities through legislation?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6018	Thank you. Secretary of State Mesaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6019	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Madam Parliamentarian, for asking this question. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity leads to permanent care for all people with disabilities. The first thing we had to do after the law was passed in 2005 for Croatian wartime wartime disabled people was to repay the debt created from 2001 to 2004 no less than almost a billion kuna. Furthermore, we have introduced certain projects, one of the projects you are sure to meet, is a personal assistant project. This year's personal assistant project ends the competition and we have provided 15 million kuna funding, which means 300 of the most difficult disabled will have the opportunity to get a personal assistant. I think the most significant part of this is that the evaluation of this project will be carried out by the UNDP on the basis of a contract between the UNDP and the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity, and it will become one of the laws. The laws as you have asked in your question, always and permanently comply with the needs of people with disabilities, succesively as they come. One of these examples is the Law on the establishment of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities who will start working this year, we have made, we have provided funds amounting to 2.5 million kunas, space for the Ombudsman and 9 employees, made a public call and therefore made a choice that is now in the process of verifying. I have to stress another project that I find extremely important for disabled people, all disabled people, any wartime, military people with disabilities or people with disabilities. It's a project to resolve the accessibility of people with disabilities. Since 2004, since the establishment of the task force you are talking about, the ministry has resolved 45 adjustments to 33 local, regional (regional) self-government, which was spent close to L5 million kuna, to be precise 4 million 816 787 kuna. This year, we have provided a million kunas more than the previous ones, and we will spend 2 million kunas on these projects after the commission's tender has been carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6020	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6021	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. And I can tell you I'm truly sorry for you. And I'm sorry that you're mostly talking about projects, and I'm sorry about the laws, about 270 laws. So people with disabilities can't live from project to project. They live every day with 270 kunas a month. And I told you up to a thousand kunas, up to a thousand and 200 kuna a month. So let's all try living with so many kunas here, and we'll see what we'll be like and what quality of life it is until someone remembers offering us a project. Otherwise, I find it very, very frustrating to talk about these things because I've been saying the same things for four years and getting the same answers. That means if I ask the same questions for four years, so for four years, I get the answer that you're doing projects. So, no law has been passed. This is really getting a little bit tragic. We all know that we have a lot of problems with the negotiations and with the European Union and that we have slowed down and that the prime minister's reference to speed does not hold water, especially in the case of persons with disabilities, because the law of aerodynamics does not know the slowness that you are working on solving the problem of people with disabilities. Honestly, Secretary of State, get to work and finally at least if nothing else, here, I'll help you push that car. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6022	Thank you. We'll be off in half an hour, so at 12 o'clock, we'll continue with the parliamentary questions. The first is Mr. Niko Rebic, and then Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with "the current morning". It's Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6024	Thank you. I refer my question to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports. It's about scholarships. More and more scholarships have been given to students and students lately. The scholarship of students and students is increasingly involving units of local self-government, economy and many others. Almost in this year and we don't have units of local self-government that didn't call for a scholarship. Lately, but of course that's still not close enough. More and more students have been talking about the National Foundation for Scholarship of Students and Students lately. It seems the expectations of students from the National Foundation are great, so my question is. Is it also when the National Foundation for the Scholarship of Students and Students begins to work, and are the student expectations justified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6025	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Primorac. Here you go. Dragan Primorac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6026	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, MPs and MPs. The question has actually come at the right time and in the period when Croatia is going towards achieving a systematic knowledge society and you know that somewhere around 10,000 scholarships are currently funded by the ministry. But a great deal of praise to the local self-government units because that number of scholarships that actually come from them is a synergist. However, a brand that the Croatian government has proposed according to those models that exist in the United States or some European countries, which is a common fund that currently exists through the National Foundation for Support for Student and Student Standard, scholarships that are scheduled to be around 1000 kuna. The amount of underlying capital paid to the standard somewhere around a million and a half kuna, and through the donor assembly we have provided to all large companies or individuals who have expressed their desire to participate from that part of the non-taxable part of the package guarantee that by the end of the year, the amount that is totaled 4 million kuna will be doubled. What does that mean? This means that only by the end of this year has the Croatian government through this project provided a thousand new scholarships of 1000 kuna. In addition to the 10,000 since the existence of the Croatian state. These scholarships are intended exclusively to support students and students, excellent students and students. Those who are excellent and have no financial opportunities and also different programs. And what's most important in the whole vertical education, so basic, secondary education, higher education and doctoral studies. This project will be presented to the Croatian public very soon. There will be one I would say introduction to this project, and what is now significant is that already four or five major Croatian companies who want to join the donor assembly already expressed their desire to donate according to all the forecasts of board members who are seven of whom come from that donor assembly should form within the next month, and our foundation already has an open account and what is most important. You will have a direct mechanism to finance those who are the best. This is the whole project of funding gifted excellent ones we are talking about in these last 15 years, seventeen years and for the first time will live in Replica Croatia. Here, thank you very much for your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6027	Thank you. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6028	That's certainly good news for students and students. But it also says how this ministry works and this government. Well done, Minister! I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6029	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6030	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is Minister of Finance Mr. Shucker. There are some topics in which the Prime Minister, Dr. Sanader, is always consistent. At the beginning of each term, he announces a reduction in VAT rates. In 2003, he also guaranteed the move with his guarantee card in which he wrote. I quote: “We will cut taxes and thus strengthen entrepreneurship, agriculture and domestic production.” The guarantee card has long not been visible on HDZ websites, and the ZERP model has been used to reduce VAT rates. So VAT is down, but with a delay still going on. It is now repeated in 2003, and the prime minister in Split announced a few days ago: "The government is considering how perhaps some measures in the VAT area might help fight inflation." I ask you, Minister Shuker, are you prepared to carry out a warrant that will come from the Government's thinking of reducing the VAT rate, at which rate will VAT be reduced and when will you do so?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6031	Thank you. Minister Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6032	Mr. President, Mr. Representative. If you look at what happened over the past four years, then you would see that the rates for certain services and VAT products are reduced. So, as far as the card is concerned, it's filled like a lot of other things. However, when we talk about the VAT rate and the context of which the Prime Minister said so, we should remind ourselves of the Association Agreement signed in May at the speed of 2001, so where certain tasks are given which Croatia should do until accession to the European Union. At this point, we have concluded the negotiating position on the tax and the Prime Minister is clear in the context of what if we do not get a transitional period for a zero rate and some other things, to think about some other alternatives all in order for Croatian citizens to go hand in hand to say, that with these changes that we have undertaken long ago if we fail to elect a certain transitional period, so we must think that this does not cross their backs above all Croatian citizens. Because the value added tax is ultimately paid by end-users, then in the context of that he said what he said. So, once we have finished negotiations, when we have established the negotiating positions, then we will know what and within what deadlines we need to implement to join the European Union. Also, as far as tax policy is concerned, you can see that these days we are also talking to the unions about the Minimum Salary Act, where it was the first assessment of our social partners to cost it 400 million. However, according to the Ministry of Finance's estimates, we would agree, even then today and in the end, that it is 3 billion kuna. But clearly both the Prime Minister and I said in our first meeting with the social partners that we cannot talk about raising the non-taxable part of income tax without talking to representatives of the local self-government unit before that, because amending the Law on the financing of local self-government units would become the income of local self-government units and it would be extremely unfair and incorrect for the government to make one such decision, not to speak to representatives of local self-government units and ultimately, if this would significantly damage local self-government units, to see how to compensate them for these expenditures. So VAT is just one of the small segments of tax policy and exactly that you did not get out of context but that you read everything the Prime Minister said, so he talked about VAT in the context of zero rates and ultimately about the government's thinking of tax policy in future periods and when the time comes, you will be informed at the time in which we are going.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6033	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6034	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Well, I'm not happy with your answer. It seems to me that, as with ZERP, it is metaphorically now with VAT selling fog, so I ask you to answer my question in writing so that I have a written trail that will not be able to disappear from the web like the missing warranty card, but that in your written reply you give me a projection of the impact of the VAT reduction on production, consumption, import and export. I read well what Mr. Prime Minister said. The Prime Minister's announcement of a reduction in VAT rate to contain inflation must be seen in terms of value added tax, which is a consumer tax and in terms of sensitivity and demand for certain products, its reduction will negatively affect the balance of payments deficit. The reduction of VAT increases consumption and imports, and its impact on exports is indifferent. I am therefore further interested in whether the basis of this analysis that you will soon deliver will have an impact on reducing inflation and improving the living conditions of Croatia's citizens. For a higher standard of living, the government must have vision, strategy, plans and actions, and then perhaps results will come. It's worth it for the VAT, too. In Croatia, small domestic production is a problem compared to consumption, and your solutions do not offer an increase in production, increase... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6035	Thank you very much. We have an announcement. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Petar Selem, called the committee at 13.30 p.m. at the Josipa Jelačić Hall down in the center, ground floor, so I ask the board members to take note and arrive at 13.30 p.m. We keep asking questions. It's Mr. Representative Boris Shmrem's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6036	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The question of the representative I'm going to ask concerns Mr. Prime Minister Sanader. The President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Stjepan Mesic, called last Saturday for a meeting of representatives of the government, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, prominent businessmen and economic experts. The theme was the Croatian economy. You have not responded to that meeting, Mr. Prime Minister, nor have you sent any of your vice-presidents or ministers to that meeting. The question for you, Mr. Prime Minister, is: Since the President of the Republic cannot ask, but based on Article 101. The Constitution may propose to the Prime Minister to convene a meeting of the Government on a matter specific, to discuss certain issues. If the President of the Republic, I don't know, I haven't consulted him, but if he decides to do so, he will propose calling a cabinet session on the subject of "The State and the Perspective of the Croatian Economy" whether you will call it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6037	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6038	Mr. Representative, first of all, I am pleased that you are concerned about the cooperation between the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. If that's what you're interested in, I'll inform you that our cooperation is extraordinary and there's no reason to doubt that statement of mine. The President of the Republic and I and the Government are working very well together, each under the authority of the same powers as the Croatian founder predicted. This applies equally to ours, both to the President of the Parliament and to the already ordinary three-way meetings between the President of the Republic, the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister. We had this practice when the President of the Parliament was Mr. Vladimir Seks, we continue this practice today when the President of the Parliament, Mr. Luka Bebic, and of course everyone in their powers as President of the Republic, President of the Parliament, Prime Minister and Government, cares about what the Croatian Constitution told him and said. Well, you've listed this so well, but don't get in the way, and that's not good at speculation and hypothetical imposteration of our cooperation. If someone suggests something to me in the future, of course I will take this very seriously, and I will consider it in particular if the President of the Republic suggests it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6039	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6040	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6041	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Stjepan Fiolić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6042	Mr. President, I refer my question to the Secretary of State of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mr. Josip Kraljičković. Mr Secretary, please explain to the public how the elpis system will be established and how much funding will be needed for the implementation of the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6043	Thank you very much. Mr. Josip Kraljičković.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6044	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs, honourable representative, esteemed Croatian Prime Minister. I thank you for asking. Let me remind you first that elpis is a system for identifying land particles. That it represents a graphic record of the land resources of farmers and that it will soon serve in the European Union as a basis for the payment of incentives to our farmers. This system requires numerous backgrounds, various maps, cartographic data, etc. which must not be older than five years, but this project is intended to take place in two phases. To finish by the end of 2009. In the first stage will be established... to obtain the necessary equipment and software, and the second one will be implemented in the whole of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] According to today's knowledge, all projects of activities are going according to plan and we can be confident that it will be completed by the end of 2009. Is this possible to say that the government has adopted a programme in principle for the elpis, which provides 120 million kuna for the period until 2009 and 70 million kuna from the budget, 25 million kuna from the Split Bank's funds, and 25 million kuna from EU funds, CARDS and PHARE. We believe that the establishment of the system will create a prerequisite for Croatian farmers to receive... The European Union. I thank you for your question one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6045	Stjepan Fiolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6046	I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6047	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Luke Denon's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6048	Your Honor, Mr. President! I wish it didn't, but unfortunately today in Croatia we still lack a large number of jobs, we still have about two hundredths of thousands of unemployed, we lack production. In particular, the production that is oriented towards exports, while imports are increasing and increasing every day. The INA refinery has not yet launched a long announced modernisation that would employ more workers and produce more competitive derivatives to ensure at least the needs of the domestic market, if there is no ambition to supply markets in the region. Imports in 2007 as well known are twice as high as exports, and the foreign trade balance deficit is more than $11 billion. The refinery in Rijeka has been in place since 1879. Over the years, it has changed its purpose to produce motor oils and base oils and tall oil, high-quality motor oils used among other things in Mercedes engines. Like any vertically integrated oil company that INA is held to be, as its peri- and peak of technological knowledge is also used for marketing purposes by this oil as it does "Shell", it makes "British Petrol", in "Ferari", in Formula 1, so the question is why INA abandoning the team before the INA refinery has an excellent and well-balanced range of motor oil products recognized and requested in this area. The question for Mr. Polancec is: Why in the 8th month of this year are you shutting down the production of motor oils in Rijeka and is this the act of closing down jobs and, on the other hand, further increasing imports?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6049	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6050	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the past term, the government is the first government to make the essential and most important, crucial and crucial decisions related to the modernisation of both Croatian refineries, both in Sisak and those in Rijeka. Decisions aren't enough. It is, of course, necessary to provide the necessary resources for this modernisation to be carried out. I remind you that the modernisation of both Croatian refineries will cost more than a billion euros. Thanks to our work and through the INA Supervisory Board, we have provided these funds, and at this point, the modernisation of both refineries is in full swing. So thanks to this modernisation, I'll say this, finally in 2009, we'll be able to produce both Euro-Deel fuel and Eurosuper '95. And of course this will greatly help our balance of payments or the coverage of our imports by export, because we will get extremely significant products that the Croatian oil industry INA will be able to export to us from neighbouring countries where there is a strong interest, and of course the good position of INA on the market. As for the modernisation of the oil production plant, I must tell you that my information is not exactly as you stated it, there will be no redundancy of workers, but precisely thanks to modernization and investment not only will everyone working in the refineries today, in the INA, have jobs but the number of employees and will increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6051	Thank you. Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6052	Of course I'd like to believe that's how it's gonna be. But as I know that the credit for the reconstruction of INA refineries in both Sisak and Rijeka until last year we still paid interkalary interest on it and it wasn't realised, I'm not sure that then in 2008 or 2009 there will also be an upgrade of the oil refinery in INA. I think either you're not well informed or you haven't been informed, which seems to me it's not good that the intention of MOL is, of course, that if there's a move, then there's only going to be a blinding or mixing of some kind of oil that translates into the 21st century, and that the excess of its oil will then be placed here and will shut down the production of oil. By doing so, in a year or two, 600 jobs will be closed by those who have done so and by 8 hundred cooperatives who have been bound by it. Unfortunately, I'd be happy to see your wishes come true, not mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6053	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6054	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I refer my question to Mr. Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister. Today, the world faces a major food shortage problem, and only a lack is caused by an increase in food prices on the world market. Croatia, of course, is not excluded from all this. We are also witnessing a large collection of artificial fertilisers produced in our only plant in Kutina, and we know what artificial fertilisers mean in the chain of production of agricultural products, and we know what agricultural products mean then in production and food, of course for human consumption. Therefore, on several occasions, farmers’ associations have called for this problem by believing that it will be able to prevail along with the government. Of course, I also believe that this problem will be addressed to the satisfaction of both producers and consumers. And I believe we'll all get a good solution in all of this. I ask Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, why so many gatherings and how many of these gatherings will affect food collection in Croatia and also the standard of citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6055	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6056	Thank you very much for asking. So the fact is next. The main raw material for the production of nitrogen fertilisers in Petrokemia in Croatia in Kutina, as well as in any other plant that is involved in the production of nitrogen fertilisers for agricultural production is gas. The price of gas in Croatia for "Petrokemia" at the moment is one kuna. I have to say, that's an increase in price compared to 2007 from 14.6%. And I must say that this is still 50% lower and 35% lower than the market price for Russian gas at the Russian-Ukrainian border. Please remember that information first. Secondly, when we talk about mixed NPK fertilisers, then I have to tell you that all raw materials for the production of these fertilisers therefore both sulfur, phosphate and potassium chloride "Petrochemicals" of course, imports. And it's interesting that Petrochemy has had many years of contracts, even some ten-year contracts with its permanent partners, although it has extraordinary relations with these partners on the world market, largely increased demand primarily in China and India for artificial fertilisers has led to the fact that these raw materials have increased for example sulphur, so four times, phosphate 6.5 times in the last less than six months and no supplier, no producer of the world's components wants to conclude contracts on an annual level but on a quarterly level, even on a monthly basis with contracts to guarantee nothing. With respect to all these facts, it is clear that Petrochemy requested an increase in prices and I remind you that the first increase should have been 44% in weight and that complex fertilisers or mixed fertilisers should have been collected from 53 to 75%. So thanks to the government's cooperation, above all, to the Minister of Agriculture and my associates and me at the Ministry of Economy, we found internal reserves with the government of Petrokemia, and there was a one-time increase in prices in weighting of 19%. After that, there has been a double rise in phosphate prices in the last two and a half months and a new demand for 24% increase in prices. We sat down again. The result of our talks and negotiations is next. That the urea will collect 11%, that the can will collect 10% and that complex fertilisers will collect in weight about 23.24%, which leads us to an average 18% increase. Despite this increase in prices, I want to meet you and the distinguished parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public with the following fact, that even after that acquisition of the price of mineral fertilisers in Croatia will be far lower than the prices of mineral fertilisers I apologize to in neighbouring countries. For example, the price of the urea will be at 290 euros while the price of the urea is currently in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Slovenia at 340 euros per tonne. Kan 220 euros in Croatia, 280 euros in the countries I mentioned, but also in the Western world, Western Europe, such as Austria and Italy. What am I saying? The fact is that it is necessary to collect prices or increase the prices of artificial fertilisers. The fact is that artificial fertilisers in Croatia will continue to be the cheapest in the region and the fact is another, that in the first four months, three and a half months this year, so Petrochemia's placement on the domestic market was 270 thousand tonnes and last year there were 210 thousand tonnes of what it says is that Croatian agriculture is waking up and that we are actually, the demand is higher despite price increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6057	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6058	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6059	Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6060	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister. I refer my question to the Minister of Health, Dr. Darko Milinovic. Dear Minister, you were probably aware of this really responsible function of the Minister of Health but also of the difficult function that the operation of the hospital system in the Republic of Croatia is not well financially, from year to year, so almost all hospitals in the Republic of Croatia both the clinical hospital and the special hospitals operate with losses. This trend of operations with losses continued in the first three months of this year and you, Mr. Ministers of 1.4 or 1 April 2008 for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, together with all hospital directors, brought new restrictions and new hospital budgets that should bring balanced work to hospitals, which means that the incomes or limits you set would be equal to the expenditures of these hospitals and would also contribute to the quality of the hospital system. My question is regarding Mr. Minister's great public interest in the functioning of the hospital system in the Republic of Croatia and the functioning and health care of all of Croatia, I would ask you to explain to us representatives but also to the Croatian public a new way of functioning of hospital budgets and what does the quality of the health system in the Republic of Croatia mean? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6061	Thank you. Minister Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6062	I thank you for asking. Indeed, I have said that as Minister, I will be very determined in both the recovery and the decision of good business and the functioning of the system. From somewhere it had to start, there were a lot of open health issues and I am as a minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has actually decided to start from the hospital system. Why? Because it's the biggest debt generator in the health system in general. The hospital system generated 100 million kunas of new debts per month until 1.4 per month at monthly level. The meeting in Plitvices is indeed one of the key meetings where all the ministers of the hospitals were actually brought to the negotiating table and up to one of them seventy agreed and eventually gave me a hand as a minister and told the ministers these are the conditions that guarantee us that in three or four months we can tell me I know how to run a hospital system or someone who doesn't know who generates new obligations, I don't know how to work or run that hospital system. Today, those who are placed as a hospital system market place 250 million kunas at monthly level, so they sell at monthly level to hospitals a variety of different suppliers. So far, by 1.4, they could have charged about 30.40% of it, so 80 million kuna. Of the 1.4, all those economic operators who rely on the hospital system if they place the value of the 250 million kuna goods, not 250 million kunas, but 260 million kunas. I think it is also very good for the stability of the economic part of the one that is based on the health system and in the overall economic development of the Republic of Croatia. I said I believed in 70 directors regardless of the color of a political uniform. I was with twenty mayors, and I told them that I believed it would put those at the head of the health system in order. I'll be proud when I come to the premiere and tell the Prime Minister these are the people I've had as a trust minister, these are the people who know how to run a hospital system, these are the people who, when they get clear criteria, can show that they know how to run a hospital system. And I'll be inexorable no matter the color of a political uniform. Why do I say that? Let us show in three months that we know how to run a hospital system so that it would be a good way for us to go before the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I as a minister to come out with new problems or help the counties solve financial deliries in hospitals that are the founders of the county. So, I am, and I have confidence, not only in 70-odd directors, but in 70,000 people in the healthcare system that we know how to run a hospital system, that we can stabilize the hospital system. I showed what I said, that this government is going to raise the health system, as far as possible above the level, not politics, because it can't, but above the colossal interests of that. I'll be proud of 31. 7th tell the Prime Minister these are people who know how to run a hospital system and I trust them. As I believe it will contribute to that and 70 thousand health care professionals who are in the healthcare system. I'll be proud to come to the premiere in four months!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6063	Thank you. Mr. Representative Strickic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6064	Dear Mr. Minister, I am pleased with the answer, but I can only tell you that we are being consulted by employers in the health care of Opatija who was last week, where they were all employers, given full support to your program, new hospital budgets. And what you did emphasize in your speech, it is an increase from the state budget to the hospital system, almost 100 million kuna per month, which is positive, it is, new investment in the health system. And I think that, what you pointed out on Plitvices, responsibility and directors and all individuals in the healthcare system must be absolute and that's where you got the support of the director, and the principals got the support of their employees in hospitals. And I think we can thank both you and the prime minister who approved the additional money in the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6065	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6066	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Foreign Minister Jandrokovic. Dear Minister, can you tell what the invitation to NATO membership is primarily meant for the Republic of Croatia? Furthermore, how much will this fact affect the accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union? And how much this affects the role of the Republic of Croatia in our region.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6067	Thank you. Mr. Minister Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6068	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The invitation we received from the Bucharest summit is an important step, a key step in achieving the first of our two foreign policy priorities. It's entering the NATO alliance, it's entering the European Union. With this invitation, we are really one step away from joining NATO. What does that mean? We resolve a long-standing issue of our peace, security and stability. Croatia is becoming part of a collective defence system, collective security, which includes the most powerful countries on the planet. It is a system whose countries share the same values, but it is also a system that guarantees the protection of each individual country in the event of any aggression or military attack. What it means is that the best way to show a statement from the President of the United States Draže Bush, who said here in Zagreb, saying that Croatia is safe now and that no one can threaten our freedom and our independence anymore. So Croatia has long been resolving the issue of its security and its stability by joining NATO. Furthermore, we are now sitting at a table with the most developed countries of today's world, we are today equal and can no longer happen when it comes to Croatia, we are behind closed doors and then our friends are passing on information about what is being said about us. We are now part of this team, we are today part of this community and we are equally involved in making decisions, not just about us, but about all the important world topics. Of course, joining NATO has its own economic dimension, of course, that if one country is safe and stable, that means increasing foreign investment in the country. They will not come by themselves, we must do our part of the job, create all the preconditions for foreign businessmen, foreign investors to do well and safely in the Republic of Croatia, but certainly this membership gives an additional wind to the back, to all those interested in doing business in the Republic of Croatia. As for joining the European Union, the invitation to NATO is not crucial, it is very important and it is an additional, certainly additional element that will facilitate our entry into the European Union. Because I would remind you that all the countries that today were members of the European Union that had a communist system before entering the European Union have become members of the NATO Alliance. So these are two compatible processes and it is certainly that this invitation will have a significant impact on our approach to the European Union. But again, I remind you, on the condition that we fulfill all that is expected of us, and what we have announced that we will do. Already today's development of the situation, the opening of chapters that took place on Monday, an invitation to present some, some negotiating positions show that there has been an acceleration of the process of negotiating the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. And as for the role of the Republic of Croatia in the area of Southeast Europe, of course the NATO entry and invitation is a positive signal, not only for us, but for the whole region, by spreading NATO, the area of stability and security is expanding. And of course, together with those countries that will join NATO together with us, Albania is safe for now. We would also like to see Macedonia, but of course it must solve and find a compromise solution with Greece. Of course, NATO's expansion, i.e. the expansion of the stability area, will also work to stabilise the situation in Southeast Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6069	Thank you. Mr. Kresimir Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6070	I thank the Minister for his reply, and I wish you and your associates and the entire government a great deal of success in the further, here are the actions that have been launched to make the European Union and the NATO alliance accessible as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6071	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6072	Your Honor, Mr. President, the question is for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. The Croatian public with great interest and anxiety monitors what will happen to our shipbuilding and how the European Commission will react to the revised plans for the reconstruction of our shipyards that you have sent to Brussels these days and we would like to see it publicly what has been sent. What I'm interested in is how is the obligation and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that we commit to phase-cutting direct state subsidies? And two. No less important question. The most important question! What about the shipbuilding workers, what about the cooperatives when the subsidies stop? How many of them are gonna lose their jobs and how do you plan on taking care of these people? And I especially ask you this in the light of your yesterday statement on Croatian television that a Croatian square will be extinguished. And I'm asking you, since yesterday was a lot of speculation about it, was it the Trogir Square, about Brodotrogir?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6073	Thank you. Vice President Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6074	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank you for the matter of the parliamentary representative. I believe that we are all deeply aware of the importance of Croatian shipbuilding for the overall Croatian economy. Croatia's shipbuilding participates with more than 15% in Croatia's total exports. Croatian shipbuilding on the world market takes up about 0.8% of market participation and believe it in such a globalised world on a globalised market is not a small percentage. This is an extremely relevant and respectable and market participation. The fact is that in the last 30 years 25 ships of different categories have been produced on Croatian overpasses in their categories are winners of the “ship of the year” award on different grounds and from different institutions. This is about our knowledge, our tradition, that we really are a maritime country. But I also have to say these are the beautiful sides of our shipbuilding that unfortunately exist and those troubled sides. The most problematic side lies in the fact that our shipbuilding site has not been in business in the past few years, so it has not been in business for several years, but rather in Croatia's independence, despite the fact that all Croatian governments, both this and all of these previous ones, have always supported and subsidized and encouraged the production of ships in the Republic of Croatia. Our support system for Croatian shipbuilding is therefore not agreed, is not harmonised with the support system in the European Union, nor is the level of support in Croatia the same level of support in the European Union. True, the fact is that our obligation comes part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that this support system is harmonised. That's what we do. Last year after we referred to the first draft of individual plans in it, we plotted that direct subsidies, direct support from 10% of the ship's value will drop by 2015 when it should end up at zero. So this year, support on board isn't 10% more than something above 7%. Nevertheless, Croatia's shipyards unfortunately in 2007, none, including Uljanik, ended up with a positive business result, and that is what we must be worried about. Unfortunately, since January 2007, when we sent the European Commission individual plans from the European Commission to date, we have not received an indication of these individual plans, but we have received an indication of the Agency for the Protection of Competition with guidance on how to improve individual plans. That's what we're doing right now. All the shipyards have submitted individual plans. We are analysing them and what I must say, I must say that some individual plans do not prove the long-term sustainability of these companies, and that is our big problem with the level of support that is valid in the countries of the European Union, with the same form of support we cannot prove for some shipyards that I can do positive business. That's why I said it, and I have to say it like that. It is my role, and it is my task as Secretary-General that unfortunately some shipyards will have to, some shipyard will have to go for re-use, and someone may be in completely different production, or that ships will no longer be produced at the site. I promise you that both you and all those who work in Croatian shipyards will not be fired and every man will be taken care of and no job will be lost or lost. We're fighting to prove sustainability. It's not enough what we've done so far. We need more, but I'm saying for now those plans at all the shipyards don't prove that sustainability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6075	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6076	Mr. Vice President, I appreciate you taking this long and wide to explain what this is all about. But you really didn't answer me one specific question about "Brodotrogira" and it's hard for you to explain to the public why you kept the administrations in existence and when you were aware that they were doing bad things, when they were making bad decisions that reflected the future of everyone in those circuses. I don't get it. What's more, some of the people who ran earlier you left in those places. In addition, the European Commission has seen all the Croatian proposals so far as to be inconclusive according to sources passed on in information and claimed that the Croatian government is unforgivably late. Okay, now you've promised one thing I appreciate because you promised in front of the Croatian public that no one would lose their jobs, that no job would be compromised. I'd like it to be that way. This promise was heard by the entire Croatian public, she and I will remember it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6077	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Mariana Petyr's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6078	Dear Mr. President, MPs and MPs. I ask my question to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. In fact, Mr. Vice President here yesterday was marked Planet Earth Day throughout Croatia. With a little less joy, he was welcomed by citizens of the town of Sisak, because it is known that Sisak is unfortunately the most polluted city in the Republic of Croatia. I must say that the situation in relation to the previous year has changed somewhat, because the joint action we have launched at all levels where the competent inspection services have also been involved, but of course under the pressure of the citizens and the debate that has just been initiated in the Croatian Parliament can be said that from the third category of air quality we have switched to another category. But we are still not satisfied because we are eager to measure precisely the short- and long-term measures that are in the operational programme, but also in the rehabilitation programme when it comes to modernising the INA refinery in Sisak as quickly as possible. In fact, you know that the very great excesses that occurred in both H2S and SO2 are linked to the terrible improvements of the citizens of Sisak from cancer and, of course, the necessary measures are being taken. So I'm interested in Mr. Vice-President of the government in which the modernization of the INA refinery in Sisak is now moving. What's been done so far? And can you expect concrete solutions in a shorter period of time, perhaps from what is foreseen by these programmes that I have listed, because indeed citizens of the city of Sisak expect air quality to come into the first category. So, yes, they have normal conditions like everyone else in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6079	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6080	I appreciate the question. First of all, I must point out once again, so that modernization of Croatian refineries simply has no alternative and for two reasons. One is an economical, therefore, economic reason. We want to get into a situation so that we can also produce Eurodiesel fuel and gas Eurosuper 95. So five quality products in Croatia and thus simply substitute imports, on the other hand come into a situation that we have a new high-quality product available to export so what will improve as I said, the state of our balance of payments. And the other reasons why we started the modernisation process of both refineries are of course the ecological reasons for environmental protection. Deeply aware of the fact that the air quality in Sisak was not adequate and as Deputy Prime Minister, i.e. Minister and as a member of the Ina Supervisory Board, I stood up for as short and accelerated deadlines as possible. What you mentioned when we talk about deadlines, we try to make them faster, but it's not easy. I'll give you a reason why it's not simple. So it's not about the insurance money. The funds were secured and the Croatian government, as the majority owner of Ina, approved Ina's first 400 and an additional 600m euros, which is enough to modernise. But the problems are in the following: So at this point, 20 refineries are being built in China, at this point the refinery plants are being modernised, destroyed by hurricane Katrina in the United States, and several new refineries are being built in the Caspian Gulf. This all slows down the processes, i.e. delaying the time of delivery of technologies ordered by the contractors, i.e. the technology provider. What I must say, as you have concluded, is the first stage of modernization that consists of three parts of Sisak's first phase of absentiation is over. Since the fall of last year, this new deforestation facility has been in full operation and therefore air quality is where and where better. Second facility, so-called. The hydrodesulfurisation plant will be completed by the fall of this year and we will finally begin production of so the euro diesel and euro gasoline in Sisak and the third step in the first phase is the facility of the isomerisation that should be completed by the end of next year. That would end phase one. The second stage of the Craiging should be completed by mid-2011 at the latest, which is in line with the defined deadlines and, of course, we hope that there will be no delay in delivering the technology for the reasons that I have stated earlier. This will further modernise the refineries, have a sensitive impact on the balance of payments of the Republic of Croatia and where and where more to protect our environment, which is our goal to all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6081	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6082	I thank the Vice President for this clarification he gave, and I believe that we will succeed in our joint efforts in a very short time to make sure that the citizens of the city of Sisak have finally air of the first category.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6083	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6084	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, State Secretary. My question is about the rules about... construction companies. This may be a little surprising, given that here is the third one that asks questions about 10% of the Croatian economy, i.e. 10,000 and 800 companies that cover an area that is extremely important in our economy. What I noticed and why I'm asking the question, which is that the Croatian construction companies are just being discriminated against by this rule, that that regulation did not ensure licensing in the way that it was intended to be arranged just to prefer quality, but everything is set up in a way that matters to the number of employees. What is important to say is that a foreign company with one employee will have the right to participate in the competition, and Croatia will have 500 employees for the same job. It is also anti-market against small entrepreneurship and what is important additional, requires administration in this sphere. Since Madam Minister in that served question at the beginning actually gave a little better picture, and I would try to support it with the figures of 10,000 and 800, 4000 of them at the last minute, although 18 months were the period in which they could be licensed, and only 5% were currently licensed. I don't think they're good numbers, and besides, there's a constitutional suit attached to that rule. My question is Madam Minister, given that there has already been a rule for 23 days, and you are already announcing changes, will you tell us in which direction you intend to change or mitigate the regulation on the licensing of construction companies?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6085	Thank you. Mrs. Matulović-Dropulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6086	Thank you very much. Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister, honourable MPs and MPs, Your Honor. I'm sorry you weren't in the hall when I was answering the first question, because then you'd hear that we're not preparing to change the rules, but that we're going to talk to the Builder's Union and the HUP if they're going to have any comments after these licenses are issued. But what's important to say, you're talking about 10 grand and 800 companies. I made it clear that according to our statistics or by whoever's handing over the final bill, five thousand 277 companies don't have any employees. 4000 and 61 companies have employees from 1 to 9 workers. I also said that by 10.3. this year, we received 579 requests and that up to 3 thousand 361, it meant about 2,000 and 600 that we received after that were received within 20 days. So far, we have issued 699 licenses, of which 40,000 workers are covered, and today the Statistics Office says that 99 thousand workers work in construction. Therefore, only two companies have not been licensed so far, and I am sure that all those companies that are really involved in construction, who are not engaged in reselling jobs because they have one or five or eight employees and then they will re-negotiate works and resell works to those workers who have and who can work, so I am sure that this rule will correct it. As for the quality of our work, the quality of our work is one that no one can be satisfied with, and you can see it especially through the newspapers, we even have cases that the car carrier was doing a wide dig with us and then we don't have to wonder what the quality is like. We will therefore do everything to increase quality and increase quality and, of course, that quality must be one of the conditions, but also those proposals that speak about the financial situation of a particular company speak precisely in favour of giving licences to those who resell jobs. Well, we made that rule after two and a half years of work exclusively at the request of the builder. Therefore, they are greatly satisfied with this rule. And I said that if we came in here to analyze those companies that deal with construction, not engineering, not designing, not professional supervision, but only building, it means building, we're going to take those companies apart. And if it takes, we're going to change things, as I've already said, like the union asked those who don't pay their wages to those workers to lose their license. As far as foreign companies are concerned, such a question has already been raised here, that we have received remarks from Europe. That's not true. We received from Europe a question, from the European Commission, what will become of foreign companies related to the SAA, which the Croatian State signed in 2001. We told them that since it was the '99 law. The year has already made it clear that such a rule should be adopted, since 2003, and then in 2004, that all foreign companies registered today in Croatia are getting the same licenses as our builders. Since 1.1.2009, if the Commercial Society Act changes and it is such that they can also have the licences of their countries where they work and have a gro-employee, then that will be applied. So I'm sure this rule will bear fruit.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6087	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6088	Madam Minister! With all due respect, but I have one advantage, which is that you don't necessarily have to be in the hall to hear what you said, so I listened carefully to what you said, don't doubt it. As I'm aware, you've already had negotiations with a union last week that you say will only be. What's important is that you haven't even answered about the constitutional lawsuit that exists, you haven't answered about it, either, which requires 500 people, and you haven't answered this part that has nothing to do with the European Union issue, because companies with one employee will be able to participate in competitions. Also, what is important is that you still prefer the number of workers, and only during the period of 18 months that you created and gave a transitional period is 35 carpenters, and only for one company from 30 and how many. Therefore, you have not trained your staff to apply that rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6089	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6090	Thank you very much. I refer my question to Madam Secretary Lovrin. Last week, a devastating report on the repression of money laundering in which our country is described as a true paradise for various forms of manipulation by means of illegal means came from Strasbourg. Croatia today writes literally in the report and this report by the MoneyVal bodies in charge of fighting money laundering in Europe, does not worry about the possibility of funding even terrorist organisations with dirty money and other abuses and malfeasances not to speak. Their conclusion is that we make dirty money most of the time by misusing the situation. by corruption, that last year's economic crime kidnapped Croatia with 170m euros, and that our legislative framework for this issue is uncomprehensible and incomprehensible. And that the laws don't usually apply. Madam Minister, since these are fundamental issues in countering corruption, I ask you what you have done to end financial manipulations and what is your answer to their advice that requires a clear ban on financial institutions to have anonymous accounts or accounts that are based on false names, or that you have taken all these different forms of manipulation by means obtained by means of illegal means to end or reduce to the least possible measure?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6091	Minister Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6092	Mr. President, Madam Representative! Here I believe, I am extremely glad that this question is asked simply because we will have an opportunity to inform the Croatian public this way with the actual content of that report, and not on the basis of which your question is likely to be conceived, and these are media inscriptions from last week that have already denied themselves with the same writings this week. I am reading a summary of this report, therefore MoneyVal, which is by no means as black as it is presented and so unfavourable for Croatia, but we can say that after the adopted report for Croatia, this was followed in a positive atmosphere, congratulations to the Croatian delegation on the report, with a special note that everything that is applied in Croatia is therefore an education for judges and state lawyers through the Judicial Academy, new subjects, the issue of a manual for all bodies in the fight against money laundering, new rulings, the government's action plan to prevent money laundering, the formation of an interinstitutional working group, all this was mentioned as a positive trend in this regard. While complicated temporary sequestration and confiscation systems have been observed, I would like to say on this occasion that despite the fact that 15 million, 15.4m euros in money, were seized last year, and confiscated by the end of 2 and a half million euros. Of course, further improvements are also needed precisely because before this House there will be a Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Money Laundering. After this adoption of the law, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering will be revised in a way that defines this crime as it is in other European countries, so that this definition is uniform. The report also includes some other assessments that are unsatisfactory. I have to say, none of them apply to the area of jurisdiction of the Justice Department. So, the report was followed in a positive atmosphere, there was progress and a series of good measures taken in Croatia especially in the area of this interinstitutional cooperation in order to make this fight and to prevent money laundering more effectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6093	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6094	Madam Minister! As you have announced that the law on the prevention of money will also be amended for the sake of new incrimination, this incrimination can only happen to the Minister's novel of the Penal Code. And the law on the prevention of money, that is also advice to you, so listen to what is well-intentioned coming from Europe to relativize the banking secret, because it is always in the State's Attorney's office's report and even the courts who are talking about the fact that their banking secret is almost absolute to us that it stops almost every investigation into the discovery of a trace of dirty money, customs and because of legal restrictions that nothing seems to prevent the entry and amount of suspicious funds from Croatia, nor that any competent institution has to keep documents for more than five years. And that's something that's just advice to change. You haven't said anything about it, and obviously you have no intention of changing anything in that sense. And then that kind of progress won't get any better because we only have two convictions, two convictions to launder money. And in short, then Croatia is nothing but what they say and that we simply have to declare ourselves this way if we refuse to look into the truth in the eyes of a great laundromat of dirty money.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6095	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Damir Caine's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6096	Here's the question I want to ask either the Prime Minister or the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. The government announced when we opened the shipbuilding package, so allow me to ask one question in this context. So, you announced that by the end of April, it is in seven days to come up with individual plans for each Croatian shipyard. Before the truth, I don't know these plans, you've already announced the privatisation of the Oilies and the Queen. You said the following, I should quote it, if a shipyard cannot survive with the same level of support as in the European Union, it is followed by the key in the lock. Right, at the expense of state subsidies, he gives $100 million a year. If we add to that money from 90th to today all those losses, recoverys and so on, it turns out that the recovery of the Croatian taxpayer cost more than total exports of all Croatian ships. In 2006 alone, 2007 the government of 4.2 billion kuna, a billion 700 Split, a billion 700 Rivers, the Queen 250, Trogir 650 million kuna, the Zero Kuna Uljanica. And now the question is, how do you intend Mr. President and Deputy Prime Minister to implement the privatisation of the Oilman? The Trogir we heard about last night may have turned into some remounted shipyard. I'm not advocating that principle, but the Oily can't be a remounted shipyard. I ask you to write me that famous idea of privatising the Oilies at times when the management of the Uljanika says that the Oily is not ready for it and that Pula is against that famous idea. Who's supposed to privatize the Oilman? Who are these people? What institutions are these? Who are these companies that are supposed to come? How they acquired this capital, etc.? And by the way, are you Mr. Vice President and President ready to answer to your assets if the accidental privatisation of the Oily does not produce fruit and not as we have a case in one Lenca or the Rijeka Bank that either no one is responding or the subterfuge is responding.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6097	Vice President Polancec. Stick to the time, all of you, including ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6098	Thank you very much for asking. I have to say, we're thinking the same thing about the Oilman. I am fully aware of the importance of the Oilic for the Istrian County and for the city of Pula, I am fully aware of the importance of the Oilic for the Croatian economy and for the Croatian shipbuilding industry. As I said earlier when I was answering the first question asked from this resistor, I want to say it one more time. Oil is a bright example in Croatian shipbuilding, Uljanik is a shipyard that has spent many years apart from others performing systematic restructuring and which has been put into a situation so that it can operate positively. Also, I have to say that we had the slightest change in management in the Uljanics, and that turned out to be just as good. So, as far as the Oilman himself is concerned, let's get one thing straight. Oil is one of the best or best Croatian shipyards and it will remain after the privatisation we will spend. So, in Ulnik, high-quality and valuable ships will be produced. As far as privatisation itself is concerned, there is one huge problem that is present in each of the shipyards. In 1993, the basic capital of each shipbuilding site entered the maritime well-being, which is perhaps the most pronounced in the Uljanics, and we must therefore extract this maritime good and it cannot be the subject of privatisation. How do you do it at this point I can't give you a single answer. When we answer that question, then we'll be able to sit at a common table and define the model, the best model for the privatisation of the Oilies. Meetings for the joint table management, trade unions, local and regional self-government and of course owners through the Privatisation Fund or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Then you will have opportunities along with me to look for the best way and model of privatization of the Oils, it will benefit every employee, management, regional self-government and Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6099	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6100	Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to any questions. There, and I will be Mr. Vice President for the privatization of the Oils if you and the Prime Minister are willing to answer with your property that this privatisation will bear fruit. I won't answer my property, it wouldn't do anyone much good for the simple reason I'm against it. But I want to tell you next. They don't want the Istrians to be trying rabbits one more time in an experiment asking if they can produce fruit. Without the Croatian government currently having 120 billion kuna budget revenues remaining in one such company, I do not think the company is well written. And that's why I don't think that in any way the Government of one Uljanic or any other major Croatian shipyard can help us, so whatever someone in Brussels has imposed on us.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6101	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6102	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to direct my question to the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Ani Lovrin. Namely, here is a time ago we had the opportunity to be familiar with the topic that was made on the round table and it is about protecting the rights and interests of children in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the question was raised and the conclusion was that a register of convicted persons in the area of sexual delicacies was needed in relation to children. My question to you, Madam Minister, is the Justice Department a resolute body that would work to establish such a register, is it any other resolute body? Who are the participants who would work in such a project? And which of the pre-conditions that should be respected prior to the adoption of such a register? Respecting the fact that here, and over some short time back, we can read about the need to actually establish such a register, as well as the doubts and problems that arise in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6103	Ms. Secretary Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6104	Thank you very much. Ma'am, here's first of all to say that the Croatian Government has an exceptional sensitivity and that it will do everything to protect the most vulnerable social groups, and children certainly are, especially with regard to these, these particularly serious crimes of sexual violence against the child. That is why, in the past term of the government, penalties for this type of crime have been increased. The same way as through the prison system for perpetrators of these most serious crimes is implemented systematic, psychological rehabilitation treatment precisely to prevent relapses in this criminal area. But lately, there has been a question and initiative and a question of the need to establish a single register of perpetrators of these crimes. Namely, the initiative was launched after, in fact, by the Ombudsman for children, after the organisation of a round table attended by the Ministry of Justice. And the conclusion of that round table is that one such registry would be needed. It's just that you need to think it over. In fact, it would be determined which state body would be competent and which state body would run that register and in what sense. I must say that most European countries have a register and that he is in most countries being led to the police. Why the police? For reasons other than data on punishment or conduct of proceedings, it is necessary to also have data from DNA analyses that would be stored there, and then commit these people, as usual, to each, on the application, of any change of place of residence, or change of place of work. So, what is there to say, that the Justice Department is not determined by the holder of this Act, but it certainly wants to join, it wants to participate actively. It should also be said that there is now a register of perpetrators of sex crimes against children and children, of course, in the criminal record of the Ministry of Justice. This criminal record shall be made available to both the police and the state's attorney's office and the courts if any new proceedings are under way. Therefore, it is important to say that there is a record of convicted persons for this crime. What the Ministry of Justice will certainly do through the Criminal Code, which is to amend the provisions on criminal record, on their availability and on those bodies in certain cases that such data would be used in this area of criminal offences and in others for the prevention, recurrence of criminal offences. And one more thing, although he is not the bearer, the Justice Department has formed a task force that will work on the creation of this regulation. Of course, they will consider what state body it would be in and will think so much about the balance that is always needed and that means between protecting the victim of a crime and respecting general human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6105	Thank you. Mrs. Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6106	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I am truly pleased with your response, especially in this section, in which you have particularly apostrophe of the vulnerability of this population, which is a significant part of the total. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6107	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6108	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Vice-Presidents and Ministers of the Government, esteemed fellow MPs. I would like to refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. Croatian agriculture, according to its land resources and production technology, could easily meet its wheat needs, which are about 600,000 tonnes a year. Unfortunately, that's not happening. We're already witnessing something quite the opposite. 412 thousand tonnes of wheat were exported from Croatia after the harvest in 2007. The wheat was exported at an average price of 156 euros per tonne. At the same time as February of 2007 and by February 2008, wheat was collected by as much as 117%, now sold at 282 euros per tonne. Also today, we have the least stockpile of wheat in the last 30 years in the world, which also condition the high price of import wheat. And now that wheat is the most expensive, a decision has been made to call a tender for imports of 100,000 tonnes of wheat. My question, Mr. Vice President, is Polancec. Why was so much wheat exported last year, which quantifies two-thirds of Croatia's annual needs at such a low price, that it would now have to be imported and almost twice as expensive? Why such a decision was made within the Government on imports when the imbalance in the external trade balance of agricultural food products in the first two months of 2008 was 189 index points. He was 127 last year. And how much, in the end, will this import of wheat affect the increase in the price of flour and bread that our people are most interested in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6109	Thank you. Vice President Polancec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6110	I appreciate the question. Although I think that perhaps a more decadent and detailed answer could be obtained from the Minister of Agriculture, in any case I will try to give as correct and more concrete an answer as possible. So the wheat you're talking about is from the generation of 2005, when it was, I dare say one of the record harvests and one of the record wheat storage. The wheat was bought at a relatively low price in the company of course with the prices we are talking about today. The whole ransom was financed among other things from the loan. And that loan was necessary to pay back. He was coming back, of course, in a way that sold wheat and thus reduced that amount that we had in our stock reserves. It seems to me that the data that you've presented from 400 thousand tons is correct. And we sold that wheat somewhere, I'd say a year ago. No one could have guessed the consequences of the drought that hit us last year. And as a result, no one at that time thought about the fact that some of that wheat might have to remain in stock because the heated area in Croatia suggested that the harvest could be such that the quantities that would therefore be collected would be sufficient for Croatian needs in 2007 to naturally harvest in 2008. However, after the quantities exported, it happened that the drought had made its own, that the quantities we picked up in the harvest were far less and, of course, it had begun to increase the price of wheat in our environment. Today, we do not have enough wheat in Croatia and, of course, we have allowed imports, but I would also like to emphasise for those small quantities left in our silos the introduction of a natural ban on exports, i.e. export customs. I hope that the quantities that are intended to be introduced will be sufficient until harvest, and I hope that in the harvest we will collect enough to normally regulate the price of wheat and thus the price of bread in Croatia by the harvest of 2009. I believe and I am deeply convinced that there is no reason and there will be no increase in the price of bread as could be read or heard in some media these days because there are no arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6111	Mr. Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6112	Mr. Vice President, in 2005, 60,000 tonnes were produced. 2006. 80,000 tons. In 2007, what you say is a drought of 812000 tons. Therefore, it seems that what it should mean is that stock supplies have no meaning of their name. It's another thing. This year, 140,000 was sown. Therefore, we expect barely 600,000 tonnes that will hardly be enough for this year's production. What we should be doing is what Europe is doing, that there are surfaces in the peace and if the need arises to increase the crops of which the price increases. That's what they did in Europe. However, we still have one million hectares of unprocessed land, and I'm afraid that even after 2008, if we are harvesting in 2008, we have to import that it will be very bad and I don't know how we're going to explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6113	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6114	Dear Mr. President, my letter, that is, my question goes to Minister Milinovic, and the reason for this question is that here is the HDZ that has been running health care for five years and so to say that the governor of Croatian health care. Because everything that has been tried over the past five years has not shown its results, and what the HDZ administration in healthcare shows is one social blindness and inefficient system itself. Let me just say that there are paradoxics in Croatian healthcare, because on the one hand we say in 2003 we replaced all hospital directors because they were lost. In 2007, hospital directors were also at a loss. The directors have shown the loss of almost all Croatian hospitals, but we are not replacing them, but we are giving extra funds and we say we trust you, so if you are positive until 31.7. The primary health care is being forgotten, which last year was only 18% in the overall health spending. This means we're transferring health care costs from a cheaper system to more expensive, because at the same time health care has grown somewhere in hospitals and polyclinics. It's also, to put it vividly, that health care instead of opening ATMs we open other things. Minister, as you interpret the fact that we have treated fewer patients, that our number of hospital days is lower, that our lists are getting longer and that our hospital budgets are exceeded by 20%. Whether increasing hospital budgets will improve this or will be so that directors will keep their chairs away from patients and not provide health care. Minister Milinovic, who's the money go to?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6115	Thank you. Mr. Minister Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6116	Who's the money go to? I didn't honestly understand the question. You said HDZ was a health governor. Thank God that is the case in the last five years and indeed we will now correct the reform of the health system and help the counties solve financial deliriousness, those they cannot solve alone, and it has legally made it impossible for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to assist them with the law that you have passed, which your party brought when it was in power. Who's the money go to? So I'm asking you? You, I happen to know that the cost of the drugs in your department has increased by 60% in the last three months. For ten million kunas. Who's the money go to? Answer yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6117	Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6118	Dear Mr. Milinovic, the money goes to treat the patients. So, if you think that if you don't know who the money's going to, then you should face the fact that at this point you've put the principals in a position to refuse patients and that the treatment that should be carried out is being transferred behind it, and if you have problems with hematology and the cost of hematology, I think the place where you're going to turn is the director of the Clinical Hospital Center, Professor Rainer. Therefore, if KBC lost and wrongly spent it and spent it in a way that did not comply with the law, then it is clear that there are certain sanctions accordingly. And I would also ask the Minister to uphold the law, and among other things, that the Administrative Council of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance which was illegally formed to create its legitimacy, because the decisions of the Governing Council that have been made since 1.1 this year will be inadmissible, i.e. there will be a problem in the functioning of the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6119	Thank you. Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6120	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for Mr. Branko Vukelic's defence minister. As the Ministry of Defence sees a solution to the problem of attracting quality staff and retaining professional staff at the Ministry of Defence in view of the professionalisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the competition of civil offers of jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6121	Thank you. Mr. Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6122	Thank you. Dear Parliamentarian, your question has actually been touched by an area that is very complex and that is actually in front of the Croatian government and this Parliament and the Ministry of Defence and not only this year, but also for many years. Namely, when we opted for a professional army, when this Croatian Parliament in 2006 adopted a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces, when we defined ourselves as NATO membership, we have actually given ourselves the task of implementing now all reforms and structures that are not only related to the organisation of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence, are not related to modernisation and equipment but also to personnel. The most important question is always personnel, so people. And what's important to say is that both the past government and my colleague Roncevic, who was the defence minister, led such a policy that was aimed at an attractive place in the military whether it was a soldier, an officer, an officer, whether it was an officer at the Ministry of Defence. To make attractive for young people, for professional people, for highly qualified qualified people who need to implement all these reforms and who should actually accomplish all those tasks that impose and the moment of Croatia in which it is located, therefore also related to NATO, regarding the need for the defence policy of Croatia and all that is carried out in the Ministry of Defence itself. There are several segments that are very important that I especially want to highlight. One area of wage policy is therefore a very important decision made by the government at the last session, which is therefore to increase salaries primarily for soldiers, but also for all officers and officers. Pay policy doesn't just mean more pay. The pay policy also means the possibility of training with work, so the possibility of creating conditions for the hierarchy to progress and it should be said that we have achieved a remarkable result in the past years. For example, in 2007, it is important to say that we over 300 of our officers trained outside Croatia, so that America, which Germany, France, is in other countries. That we studied over a thousand and 200 schools in Croatia. that 484 our employees had attended a foreign language school. So it's a prerequisite that he can make progress in the ministry. It is also important that policy is also important when it comes to not only salaries but also health care at the Ministry of Defence and in the Croatian Army, the area of housing policy is also very important. We are also preparing a special rule that will give perspective to all soldiers, as well as to officials, so to the Ministry of Defence staff to resolve their housing issues. I also think it is important to attract young people after high school to enter into one agreement, contract with the Ministry of Defence and attend our universities with the aim of becoming an officer of the Croatian Army. I especially note that the project "Kadaet" is under way, which allows young people to study practically free of charge in colleges, so there is free food, free textbooks, transportation, scholarship from 800 to 1,000 and 600 kuna depending on which year of college. So there are a series of measures that we want to create the conditions for young crazy, professional people to enter the Croatian Army and that we have that chamber that meets what a Croatian soldier, a Croatian officer, but also every employee of the Ministry of Defence today to meet, and these are high standards when it comes to knowledge, skills, whether it is technology, some kind of technology business that is taking place, whether it is the very abilities and willingness of our soldier to defend Croatia. So I repeat, it's been done both in the lead and in the past few years. This Croatian government and this ministry will be particularly concerned about this year and the coming years in order to achieve everything envisaged by the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces by 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6123	Thank you. Mr. Mihalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6124	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I am completely satisfied with the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6125	Thank you. And finally as the last to ask a question, Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6126	Here's a thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking the question of the Minister of Health, Mr. Darka Milinovic. In Istria, there are several major projects for which all citizens are interested, so is the construction of a general hospital in Pula. With good cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Istrian County, the project and what I am interested in today have been in some way i feel like I can start working on the construction of a new hospital. So, Mr. Minister, I'm asking you, when will be the opening of a tender based on which I can begin work at a new hospital in Pula.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6127	Thank you. Minister Milinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6128	I also thank you as Minister of Health and Social Care for this project where the Government of the Republic of Croatia once again shows that it cares about the development of the entire state regardless of the political structures of the authorities in the regions, so as a minister, I am looking forward to a project that Pula and Istria County will receive a large health facility. In 2005, the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Istrian County signed an agreement on the construction of Pula Hospital and a company that was to make changes and additions to the idea project, should have done so by the 7th month of last year, and there were some problems and these changes and additions to the idea project we received a dozen days ago. The conditions for calling a tender for selecting the most favourable bidder are now met. In the budget, this year's budget for the project, for the first phase of the project, which is therefore the development of the main implementation project, 15 million and 625 thousand kuna were secured. I look forward to opening an invitation to tender during the 6th or 7th month and, together with parliamentary representatives from Istria, I hope to open works at Pula General Hospital. I look forward to this project with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6129	Thank you. Mr. Nevio Štić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6130	Here I am pleased with the answer, and I am glad that the construction of a hospital in Pula will begin at last.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6131	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with "currently in the morning. " At 15.15, so at 15.15 we continue the session with the agenda report Mandate-Immunity Commission. And I wish everyone a good run. Thank you. ... Although we ended up in the morning, with parliamentary issues at 1.40, the session continued at 3.15, which means that it was usually an hour and a half time, whether or not it was secured. [[Specially enabled.]] However, here, I know, the committees could be held for these three weeks. The council was working, and these three weeks, it turns out he wasn't working. And then they could be committees. So no one bothers to do their jobs. ... That's what I'm telling everyone! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I suggest next. To go to the second item of the agenda until we secure the quorum, and then we will return to the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission because we must vote to terminate the mandate and start acting as a representative. Now let's get to the second item of the agenda. ... How much? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 79. All right. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. 1. You received a report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the proposal for an act at the session. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Damir Sesvecan to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6133	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] So we have a report on the commencement of Dr. Bojana Pants and the start of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Master of Vesna Buterin. At the 8th session held on 23 April 2008, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Representative Bojan Panche from 2 April 2008 informing the Commission that he had put his representative mandate in a standstill for the conduct of a duty incompatible with the conduct of the agent's duties within the meaning of the provision of Article 9(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. As Mr Bojan Hlace was elected representative as candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list in the 8th Election Unit, the Croatian Democratic Community is in accordance with Article 12(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has determined that Vesna Buterin, as deputy representative in that election unit, begins to act as a representative instead of a representative of Bojan Panche. The Commission has established that the conditions for the start of the stay of Bojan Panche's representative mandate and the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy deputy, Vesna Buterin, have been laid down by law. In accordance with Article 104, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, after the debate has been carried out, be based on Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative's office. On 2 April 2008, it begins the stay of MP Bojan Panche's term of office. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 23 April 2008 begin to act as deputy representative of Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6134	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Decision in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in favour of this decision? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 86 votes, a decision has been adopted, a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. In accordance with Articles 7 and 8. Rules of Procedure, Articles 7 and 8. The Rules of Procedure of Ms. Vesna Buterin will be sworn in. The oath shall be given in a way that the President of the Assembly shall read the text of the oath, the representative after being called up and pronounced by the oath. I'll read the text of the oath! I swear by my honor that I will exercise my responsibility as a representative in the Croatian Parliament knowingly and responsibly. And that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law, respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6135	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6136	Congratulations to the new representative on his sworn oath. And I wish her success in acting and performing an honorable and responsible representative's duty. Please move to the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I'd like the chairman of the committee, Mr. Sesvecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6138	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. We have five reports from the Mandate Commission. The first report is a request for authorisation to launch a criminal proceedings against Davorko Vidovic, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. At its 9th session held on 14 May 2008, the Court of Justice's request in Sisak for the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against Davorko Vidovic for the criminal part of the libel referred to in Article 200(2). The criminal law following a private lawsuit by the city's prosecutor, Sisak, represented by a joint law firm in Sisak. Mr Davorko Vidović is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of this Regulation. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously with 7 votes in favour, proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make the next decision. During the term of office, authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Davorko Vidovic on private charges, the prosecutor of the town of Sisak for the criminal part of the slander referred to in Article 200(2) shall be denied. Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6139	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's get involved and vote. Proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, i.e. for a period of time, etc. Overruled. [[/Intruder: What?]] It's being denied. The result? This commission's conclusion was accepted by most votes, 106 votes to, 5 abstentions and one against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6140	Next report on the request for authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Ivica Pancic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. At its 9th session held on 14 May 2008, the mandate committee of the Prosecutor of the Private Prosecutor Bozidar Kalmeta of Zadar discussed the request by the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivicie Pancic for the criminal offenses referred to in Article 199(2) and the criminal part of the slander referred to in Article 200(2). Penalty law. The commission found that in the previous meeting, therefore, the V Assembly of the Croatian Parliament was denied approval for the initiation of criminal proceedings in the same case by decision of the Croatian Parliament of 5 October 2007. How Mr. Ivica Pancic was re-elected as a representative in VI. The Assembly of the Croatian Parliament, the Commission, when deciding on the same case, was guided by the previous decision of the Croatian Parliament and the established practice of the Commission relating to the request for the initiation of the criminal proceedings under private charges for the offences of insults and slanders. Mr Ivica Pančić is a representative in the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has been terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament, it shall not be possible to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings against it. The mandate of the Immunity Commission after the debate has been held pursuant to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 7 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament: during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against Ivica Pancic on the private case of Prosecutor Bozidar Kalmeta of Zadar for the offence of the insult referred to in Article 199(2) and the slander referred to in Article 200(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be denied. Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6141	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal from the Commission. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score: I find that most of the votes are 104 for, 6 abstentions and 1 against the accepted proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6142	So, the next report on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Zdravko Ronko, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 9th session held on 14 May 2008 the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Zvonko Straka from Požega under the order of the Municipal Court in Požega for the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against Zdravko Ronko for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 200(2). Penalty law. Mr Zdravko Ronko is a representative in the Croatian Parliament, and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has been terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament, it shall not be possible to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings against it. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of this Regulation. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall, in unanimity, by 7 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament: during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Zdravko Ronko in the case of the designation K-129/07 under the private suit of Prosecutor Zvonko Straka of Požega for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 200(2). Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6143	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score: The commission's proposal was accepted by the majority of the vote 106 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 1 against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6144	Another request for approval to initiate criminal proceedings against Zdravko Ronk. Therefore, at the 9th session held on 14 May 2008, the mandate of the attorney-in-chief Vinko Kovacevic of Požega under the order of the Municipal Court in Požega to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Zdravko Ronko for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 200(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Penalty law. Mr Zdravko Ronko is a representative in the Croatian Parliament, and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has been terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament, it shall not be possible to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings against it. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of this Regulation. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 7 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament: During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Zdravko Ronko, after the private lawsuit of Prosecutor Vinko Kovacevic, from Požega, for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 200(2). Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6145	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Yeah, yeah, okay. Score: This commission proposal is accepted by most votes, 104 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6146	In the end, the report on the request for authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Rank Ostojić, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 9th session held on 14 May 2008 the request of the attorney-in-chief of private prosecutor Ivo Pukanic from Zagreb under the order of the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the authorisation of the initiation or conduct of criminal proceedings against Ranko Ostojić for the offence of the defamation referred to in Article 200(2). Penalty law. Mr. Ranko Ostojić is a representative at the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has been terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament, it shall not be possible to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings against it. The committee's session was attended by a representative, Ranko Ostojic, who expressed his opinion on parliamentary immunity. He holds that he belongs to every MP, so he can give him up, and he doesn't want to protect himself with parliamentary immunity. The debate, which followed, expressed the view that parliamentary immunity is a constitutional category, that it is not a privilege of a representative or his personal right, but serves to ensure the performance of the representative's duties in order to ensure the independent operation of the Croatian Parliament as the highest representative body of the construction and holder of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia, and that a decision on parliamentary immunity can be made exclusively by the Croatian Parliament. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of this Regulation. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote, 5 for and 2 abstentions, proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following decision: During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings against Representative Ranko Ostojić in the case under the private suit of Prosecutor Ivo Pukanic of Zagreb for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 200(2). Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6147	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score: This commission proposal is accepted by most votes, 105 votes to, 3 abstentions and 3 against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Like I said, there are 13 more registered for this agenda point. I suggest we continue Tuesday. We'll continue at 9.30 on Tuesday. The first is MP Dragan Kovacevic, then Krešimir Gulic, Goran Maric and so on. I wish everyone a good holiday. We have four working days next week to compensate for this one we're losing. Please be rested and willing to work on Tuesday. Thank you very much. We're moving on to second point. 2. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Financing Instrument for Civil Protection", with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 37. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And in the determination, we've determined the urgency of the procedure. You received the proposal by mail, in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Home Secretary Mr. Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the law is Article 139, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia and the European Community have mutual interests in mutual cooperation in the area of prevention, i.e. mitigation of the consequences of natural and civilization disasters, especially in the planning and implementation of measures to protect against earthquakes, floods, fires, pollution, radiological dangers, industrial disasters. For all these reasons, there is a need for activities in this area to be regulated by a bilateral agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. The main objective of this law is that by joining the financial instrument for civil protection, the Republic of Croatia is entitled to compete for funds from protection and rescue systems projects as well as funds for disaster compensation when they occur. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and the funds necessary for the payment of membership fees as our obligations to participate in the European Community programme of the financial instrument for civil protection are planned in the financial plan of the State Protection and Rescue Administration and our membership fee is about 90,000 euros annually, with a quality programme and quality preparation, we withdraw and much greater financial resources for the needs of this activity. So on behalf of the Government, I ask that in an emergency procedure of the Government, the Parliament confirm this Memorandum of Understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6150	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6151	Mr. President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We are in front of one, by adopting one item of the agenda which is also one of the steps towards integration into the European Union and we would like to say in one let's say a document that is technical. Technically, as far as financial resources are concerned, the possibility of running for certain projects and obtaining financial resources. However, let me say a few things, given that it is a system that has been very, very interesting, interesting in all countries of the world, and primarily the European Union is taking a prominent place, both in recent years and in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the dangers of disasters, or major disasters that can turn into disasters, are they caused by natural influences, natural conditions, whether they come from the action of man are all present. They're getting bigger every day. Climate change is also everyone agrees here. It is therefore expected that in the future they will also need to take care of these phenomena, that is, those dangers that can carry out human lives and material goods. I must say that when it comes to civil protection, civil protection needs to be clarified in terms of what we call protection and rescue in the countries of the European Union in the Republic of Croatia. Protection and rescue in the Republic of Croatia means a broad term that includes everything in the countries of the European Union that say or use the term civil protection and which was used in the Republic of Croatia until 2004. All European Union countries are based on protection and rescue, i.e. on the taking of disaster and disaster measures on one principle adopted by the United Nations International Civil Protection Organisation, which is based on the fact that any problem and the possibility of an accident being solved at local level, primarily at local level, and that each level from local to state has its place and role, i.e. based on the principle of subsidiarity. This principle is contained in all acts of the European Union. Whether they are called directives, whether they are called instructions, whether they are called the meanings of both the European Union and the NATO Pact. So, everyone, the whole development of the protection and rescue system is based on that principle. The Republic of Croatia is an integral part of the geographical space. So, the geographical space of Europe. Catastrophes don't know the limits. Therefore, the interest of the European Union is that the Republic of Croatia achieves the standards that exist in the territory of the European Union and that is because I repeat the disaster, or the accident does not know the border, but also the interest given that a large number of people in the European Union are staying in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, there are also significant activities that contribute to the development, coordination of the protection and rescue system. The system in the Republic of Croatia has been built up in recent years by the adoption of the Protection and Rescue Act. The Protection and Rescue Act as a basic document adopted builds a system in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. However, in this construction of the system multiple times in the implementation of this system, we are witnessing that one argument that we say in the development of the European Union system obliges us, the European Union asks us to do so, NATO is asking us to do so. The European Union also commits its countries, meaning the Member States and the countries joining the European Union, to act, to perform their functions in the civil protection system or to the system of protection and rescue. However, it allows every country that is a member today and future members to develop their national system by respecting the attainable level of existing service organisation, that the level achieved means I would say traditions, habits and all that existed in that system. Therefore, we are not bound by any decision, we find an organization to do what we do in that system. By passing the Protection and Rescue Act, which basically allowed the system to develop. So the law as such allows the system to develop has led to the decentralisation of the system of protection and rescue. He gave great rights and obligations to municipalities, cities and counties, and basically the system is, the law is also in its essence, and also in the justification when it was adopted and the intensity was such that he solves the problem of major accidents and disasters primarily at the level of the state while other regulations and laws of each individual service, i.e. legal persons dealing with the protection and rescue of certain laws regulate everything that happens at lower levels. This led to the fact that municipalities and cities today have great rights and obligations, especially with the latest amendments and additions to the Protection and Rescue Act, have the rights and obligations to take appropriate measures in their space, including all the facilities which, or legal persons, are professional, voluntary, regardless of the level of organisation that operates in the local area of municipalities and the city has the right and the obligations to organise the system, take care of it and finance it. With development, the adoption of the Protection and Rescue Act has formed the state administration as a body, as a national body in the Republic of Croatia that is responsible for the protection and rescue system. However, this development of this Governing Body and all those sublegal regulations that were subsequently adopted under the Protection and Rescue Act did not go exactly in the direction of allowing for a stronger development of the system, to enable all services and bodies to develop even more strongly, to create assumptions about it and to say that, autonomously, in accordance with their specific regulations, they are developing and that the state administration is this coordinating body that will integrate the system at certain given moments. But that didn't happen and there were some problems. There have been some problems in overlapping competences especially at local levels, as the state administration is formed as one large body, I would say too large a body, which is basically costing a lot. He's spending a lot of money. So it wasn't what was in the intensitivity that only cared about the state level and integrated that system. There's been a overlap especially at local levels. There was not enough understanding for the specificities of the development of individual systems in protection and rescue, because the systems consist of both the professional part and the voluntary and volunteering. I highlight the volunteer that is extremely active in the Republic of Croatia, from the fire department, the Red Cross, the mountain rescue services, etc. Therefore, there are specificities in that part, there must be some sensitivity in the development of such a system and in the understanding of such a system. Most organizations not to say anything in my mind, most organizations expressed discontent and dissatisfaction. Dissatisfaction in certain segments of that system. If that were so, that the system even slowed down in certain parts and even the reaction of the system, we were all witnesses in the past, a lot of it was said, the media followed it. So that's what's present. What is needed, or what will need to be done in the system. In the future, the system needs to be decentralised until the end, allowing municipalities and cities to carry out these tasks. The municipalities and cities and counties today have one problem, that they have to engage, find a solution, here is almost now it's actual given the great rights and obligations, find solutions how they find solutions with the professionals they hire, whether they engage on a part-time basis, whether they started hiring with them, who will deal with the protection and rescue system for and the needs of municipalities and cities. Thus, there is also, in some ways, dualism since we have developed state administrations, district offices with a large number of employees. I think it will need to be integrated into one system in the future and the decentralization begins. As for the specific point of the agenda today, the fact is that the European Union does not have to repeat it, it has its own mechanisms, so there is one mechanism in the field of civil protection. The European Union has meaning, finance, it has a financial instrument, this financial instrument that we are going to ratify today, whose international cooperation in the field of prevention and mitigation of the consequences of natural and civilizational disasters, and in particular the financial resources are planned in planning and implementing measures to protect all major disasters, especially floods, fires, natural disasters, storms and all that comes to a drought that has become an objective danger today, or something that will have to be counted upon. The European Union, i.e. the aim of the Republic of Croatia, is precisely that the European Union is trying, means that our system is being trained, raised to a level that is compatible with the system that exists in the European Union, which each European Union country has its specific system, and this specific system satisfies its function in the field of the European Union, and these functions are being integrated today, they are in the integration phase. As for what we're doing today, we're already late for ratification today. Why? Because certain funds are also planned for 2007. For example, the first project in 2007 was worth 20m euros. Otherwise, there are 189 million euros in the fund, so we must be interested in meeting all the conditions and criteria to come to the possibility that we can withdraw these financial resources. The fact is that we will pay membership fee currently amounting to 92 000 317.19 euros for 2007. This will have to be paid, but the same fact that four projects that were interesting for the Republic of Croatia in 2007 were completed. And these are projects that concerned the development of an international network of risk management centres to better prepare for forest fires, and we certainly have our own interest. These are improving the presence through sensitization of the public for the danger of disasters, but with particular emphasis on vulnerable groups such as disabled people, such as older people, if what children are, because proven in certain situations of the group, or their care and all that needs to be taken and from preventive technical measures is a problem. The project we cannot count on was training professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters in risk assessment techniques and was also an incentive for the European Union, the measure is called, on the co-operation of civil protection volunteers. Just to point out, the European Union has cut out its obligation to serve civil protection in what way we knew it in the form of a military obligation, rather than stimulating volunteering in the field of civil protection and I must say that these organisations are developing. The competitions have already been opened for this year. Competitions have been opened and these will be for simulations of exercises in the field of civil protection and preparation and prevention. The projects are realised essentially by the national authority, which is the State Protection and Rescue Authority, because they are not intended for state administration, i.e. central government, but are intended for projects in the protection and rescue system. And that means emergency assistance, the Red Cross, the mountain service of firefighters and all legal entities have many, have the opportunity to compete in accordance with the strategies and plans of the development of the protection and rescue system, or compete for certain projects. As far as I know, and I've checked in the services, or legal persons involved, there's no information that there will be a possibility or that since 2007, the possibility of running for the project. Why? Because it takes a certain time to run a project. The way the State Protection and Rescue Authority works with past experience does not guarantee that we will also do this job in such a way as to at least withdraw funds at the level of membership fees that we will invest in, and we would have to withdraw far greater funds. The question, therefore, is whether this information is there at all, whether these projects will be done, whether activities will be done precisely why there is a state administration, to create assumptions and the possibility that organisations dealing with protection and rescue can report in their basic or complementary activities in order to raise the system to a higher level. The way the system works today by spending great money has slowed down, thus requiring certain changes as soon as possible while the consequences that can cause a system that does not have the right answers to the possibilities while the consequences are not yet there and are not great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6152	Thank you. It's the HNS Club and Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6153	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. We are before us this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community of the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Financial Instrument for Civil Protection. By entering into force of this Act, the Memorandum of Understanding becomes part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that is good, because it is certain that the Republic of Croatia and the European Community have a mutual interest in mutual cooperation when it comes to the prevention or mitigation of the consequences of natural disasters. It is certainly good that joint plans for protection measures, such as earthquakes, floods, radiological dangers, industrial disasters and so on, will support the adoption of this Act by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party because we believe that the adoption of a financial instrument for civil protection deepens the assistance and cooperation of the European Community when it comes to providing assistance in disasters. It is also good to establish very clearly through the memorandum the financial obligations of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the implementation of the memorandum, because the amount planned and planned last year is insignificant in relation to the benefit that the Republic of Croatia would not give to God such difficult situations. We have a particular grudge on the deadlines for accepting this memo, because it was signed in early September 2007, and before the Croatian Parliament comes almost eight months after the signing, and it is a similar matter with other memos that are introduced into the internal and legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and this should be speeded up and changed. So, I said that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support this Act and there are no other objections in this respect, but allow Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament to take this opportunity, when it comes to civil protection to stress that there are a lot of indetermination and outdated solutions in our legal system that are difficult or will fit into European civil protection criteria. Therefore, measures should be taken to ensure civil protection that the place to which it belongs is not present. I will mention only one example, and these are public shelters for sheltering the population in the event of a war or a direct war threat. In many cities, municipalities and general units of local self-government, public shelters have been built as part of a civil protection system that at some point had its function and justification and I really want to believe that we will never need it for such purposes again. However, these facilities are there, they stand abandoned, unused, devastated from day to day, and it is not clear until the end who should take care of them. Perhaps this is really now an opportunity to raise the issue of such projects and their alternative purposes and use for peaceful purposes. Such a situation as it is now far away is of course from good and such objects represent simply one dead capital in units of local self-government and other than, so freely to say monument once, but... The care and determination of alternative purposes could be of considerable benefit to local self-government units for different purposes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, there are other issues that need to be addressed through the civil protection system, so I suggest that this issue be discussed in the resolution ministries and that it be systematically approached, because it will certainly have its positive effects and results, especially for local self-government units in our midst. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6154	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ Club and Mr. Representative Mato Biljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6155	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the agenda item that says the financial institute for civil protection. We know very well that at the time of the Homeland War, and that was almost, that we were giving all the money for the defense, and today, in peace, we need to defend what we acquired in the war and what we have defended. In order to sign this Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, the Constitution and the aim of the Republic of Croatia and the European Community have mutual interests in mutual cooperation in the area of prevention or mitigation of the consequences of civil and natural disasters, peace planning and their implementation of protection against earthquakes, floods, fires, pollution, radioactivity or industrial disasters. The main objective of the Republic of Croatia in the signing of this Act is to acquire the rights of competition for funds from the project of the system for protection and rescue and compensation from users. We know that in this part of the Republic of Croatia should give as its contribution or membership fee in 2007 that it gave 92 thousand 317,19 euros as in the provisional annual budget of the European Community for the financing of the Civil Protection Institute until 2007 20 million and 900 thousand euros, which came from one formula, means the number of people in the candidate country refers to the Republic of Croatia and the rest means indicators and I think that we in the Republic of Croatia can certainly withdraw far more resources in the next period than we should, and it is very important that we enter the community, meaning European countries and because of the way we report, and because of the means of not only us in the Republic of Croatia and Europe, but also in the way that we have been able to act on a timely basis, to intervene that we are naturally, which is a human factor to avoid if we are not only nature in recent times, not only in the Republic of Croatia and Europe, but also in the whole of the world, because we were naturally in nature, which we have been so nature and nature and nature. The State Administration for Protection and Rescue, which is normally the holder of the Ministry of the Interior, which is the holder of all activities, will not simply be able to respond to all these needs unless funds are withdrawn from the Fund, or if funds are provided to assist local units of self-government from the structure, equipment, education, construction of shelters and means taking responsibility at local level or regional, for the protection of life and goods. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in "The Financial Instrument for Civil Protection". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6156	And the HSS club Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6157	Dear President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of the debate, I would like to make it clear that the Croatian Peasant Party supports the text in question of the bill because it is in line with the security, defence, protection policy that we in Croatia are representing and developing. As the text of this law supports the objectives of the internal and external policies of the Republic of Croatia to achieve security cooperation and cooperation with the European Community, we will support that the draft law be discussed and adopted by an emergency procedure, uniting first and second readings. In short, we will explain the reasons why and why we support the text in question, but we also want to point to us perhaps some open questions about this issue. The following shall be visible from the accompanying materials which clarify the objective and purpose of the adoption of this law. The main objective of law-making is that by joining the financial instrument for civil protection, the Republic of Croatia acquires the right to compete for funding from the projects of the system of protection and rescue, as well as the means of compensation for disaster damage when they occur. The Republic of Croatia and the European Community have mutual interests in mutual cooperation in the area of prevention or mitigation of the consequences of natural and civilization disasters, especially when planning to implement measures to protect against needs, floods, fires, pollution, radiological dangers and industrial disasters. The following is also the need to regulate activities in this area by means of a bilateral agreement, the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Financing Instrument for Civil Protection" as a result of the desire to further promote and deepen mutual cooperation in the area of disaster assistance. The Memorandum addresses issues of financial commitments related to the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the conditions of cooperation in disaster prevention and in the areas of mutual notification of threatening disasters, disasters and their consequences, cooperation in the field of education and training in the protection, rescue and provision of assistance and exchange of scientific and technical information relevant for the protection of disasters. In addition to the mentioned a to change the nature of the threats in modern conditions when they threaten the military nature less... , but therefore there are largely non-war threats, including those related to natural disasters and environmental disasters and industrial disasters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All this says that protection and rescue will increasingly represent areas of intensifying international co-operation with a view to strengthening security and trust among countries. That the problem of protection and rescue is becoming more and more intense, so far, the signed bilateral and other agreements or agreements of the Republic of Croatia with neighbouring countries, countries in the region and beyond, on cooperation in the area of protection against natural and civilization disasters. Following this, the fact is that cooperation in the field of civil protection has become an important factor in improving joint assistance both on the national and international agenda in the area of prevention and removal of the consequences of natural and civilization disasters. And that the future competent institutions of the Republic of Croatia will more than it has been the practice and case of so far more significant participation in the implementation of these tasks. We therefore believe that the draft law with a memorandum is written in order to highlight the increased humanitarian security and cooperation of the European Community and the Republic of Croatia and thus to establish a legal framework for mutual cooperation on the basis of which concrete plans and projects will be developed and to coordinate our interests. According to the available knowledge, the Republic of Croatia must pay the financial commitment for the entire current year in full, and can be used part of the benefits starting from the date on which it informs the Commission diplomatically that its internal legal requirements are met. The question here is whether or not we have been able to take advantage of this opportunity means that during the past half of the year, whether the Republic of Croatia is working on projects that it wants to compete for or if we already have such projects ready and whether we can get information about the activities that take place for the Republic of Croatia to come to a part of the European Community's financial cake, which is worth about 20 million euros a year. We point out once again that the HSS Club supports the proposal for the law in question, but we also point to perhaps some open issues that we hope the competent institutions will take all the necessary activities and measures to achieve the part of the European Community’s financial cookie and also to increase the effectiveness of civil protection protection protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6158	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6159	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. This is usually the kind of law that I don't think there's a need to actually discuss in most cases, but as it relates to a very important segment that in our near future, and I could say modernity, it's more and more important. Some colleagues said about it. So here I felt the need simply to ask a few more questions than it would raise the need or question whether I would vote or not for that law. I don't think there's anyone in this House who won't vote and support this type of law. Maybe one depression when it comes to the very text of the law. Where it is actually said what the objectives and purpose of this law are, it is said that they are access to financial resources. Yeah. That's right. And that is the basic goal. But I think it was meant to write two sentences before, building a system, raising a system, reorganizing it, or whatever it is that's going to be done. What I'm interested in and what I think is a key question, so now we have a chance to get some funding. In 2007, we paid 650 thousand kuna. It's okay, even though we're just ratifying this in 2008. I'm interested in whether there are already some plans and projects in the ministry, administration or some segment that will run for this story because as far as I understand things, there are two types of resources. So, one part of the funds are assets that go towards the civil protection segment in the broadest sense of the word, in terms of raising the organisation's greater efficiency and another part of the funds that are given and which can be withdrawn in case of certain disasters, accidents, etc. I hope we never need this second segment. What am I interested in? I am interested first in whether after the experience we have with the current way of functioning of the administration and the entire civil protection system, whether the government is satisfied with this mode of action. Unless the system is changing its mind for a simple reason because then there is a part of the money that could immediately de facto be withdrawn in this sense to reorganize and raise certain standards because if you talk to firefighters, if you talk to emergency medical attention, if you talk to the Mountain Rescue Service everyone will tell you that they are not satisfied, especially if you are talking to local self-government units. So my assessment is that obviously something needs to be done, and now it's a de facto opportunity to make it with money that will stand at our disposal, but like I said, we need to have good projects and programs and know what we want. I wouldn't go back to some previous experience where we were also able to pull some money into several segments, not only in the segment of civil protection, home affairs, etc. but also in some other segments which have remained unused. I think that responsibility should actually be projected in such a way that we know and that we actually know what is going to run for office this year so that certain things can be monitored. And what I'm interested in, we have some kind of civil protection law that's what it is. I think in this assembly few people know we have that law. That law is as it is, that civil protection in that segment as provided for by that law is no longer functioning anywhere. The question, therefore, is whether it will go under this law to change the system, or whether it will put some other law out of force, because we already have some experience. I know we're always here before the season, and now that we're out of summer, we always say we're ready for the fire season. And when I worked directly on it, the reports were always such, or preparatory reports, but in the end, it always turns out that there are certain segments that have not been brought to the end. So if you could just get an answer to those questions, here's what I'm going to try to do again so I don't have to. So, what about the segment of civil protection in a narrow sense. Whether we are considering reorganizing the system we have today through management and in this context what about local self-government units. The second thing, is whether or not the change in the headship of the protection and rescue system is being considered since, in my opinion, it is my assessment, in the present period, that has proved to be a person who is not up to the task. Furthermore, whether the Minister of the Interior is sitting at this agenda today, does this mean that this entire system is returning to the segment and within the Ministry of the Interior or that, as intended by the applicable law, it will remain under the authority of the Government or, at the very least, if not with the Prime Minister, that of the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of internal policy. And the last question, i.e. lastly, is which I repeat which one will be and whether it is known at all what projects and programmes will be run because earlier years there was an initiative that came and went far, and this initiative was just referring to Croatia's position in relation to the European Union when it came to civil protection, it was born in so-called "Civil Protection". Quadriterals where an initiative was actually launched with this centre in Divulje, which was supposed to be a training centre where Austria was actually supported, and Slovenia, and Hungary, later and Italy, I know that the French are also interested. And I'm actually interested in whether it's also being considered in this direction that this segment of the education process and the training of all members of the protection and rescue system would rise to a certain level because I know that this kind of vision and such projects would actually withdraw one of the largest part of the money that could be withdrawn. It's not clear to me before that Prime Minister Sanader, so normally we always talk about the story of the type of protection and rescue in the right way or we talk about it for a long time when accidents happen like the Kornati tragedy, and then I remember that then Prime Minister Sanader said that there were certain initiatives in this sense in which I spoke of Divulje. So it's not clear to me that it's forgotten. I know that somewhere in the Ministry of the Interior and even in the Ministry there are some clues about these negotiations, the creation of this one centre, and it might be good for these projects, or they have not yet been brought to the end to look at the initiatives that have come from foreign countries or ministries dealing with this problem. Here, if possible along with that normal that we will support this law or that I will support it. I would ask if it is possible to answer these few questions because it is very important to answer questions because we know what it is and what it will look like to us in the next period. Because, as far as I'm aware, except for the segment of civil protection within the MORH which is on a certain level satisfying to say to the standards that these other segments actually don't work anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6160	Thank you. And Mr. Peter Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6161	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In almost all countries, the protection of the population from the dangers caused by natural disasters, technological and technical disasters and war threats is defined in approximately the same way. In doing so, international regulations on protection against the war threats of the Geneva Convention on the Protection of Civil Victims of War have been applied regularly in the legislation of these countries. World Labour Organisations, World Health Organizations, international organisations, civilians, the protection of the United Nations agencies and other organisations dealing with the protection of industrial plants. In accordance with those conventions and in the world accepted civil protection standards, civil protection is as defined in the Republic of Croatia as elsewhere in the world as a humanitarian activity aimed at protecting people, the property resulting from natural disasters, technical and technological and environmental accidents and war activities, and includes the implementation of the self-protection of households, protection and rescue measures, and the activation and operation of body services for the management and command of special units designed to carry out different tasks for the protection of people and property. The purpose of the implementation of the protection and rescue measures is to engage and involve all available forces in order to prevent the occurrence of accidents, for example by building additional embankments in flood defense or by extending its scope, for example in the same situation, the evacuation of people and property with the ultimate objective of reducing human losses and material damage. In the country, they are organised by a system of protection and rescue at the time of the threat or accident, i.e. at the time when the relevant services receive information or knowledge of the measures are implemented gradually from the municipality to the state, starting from the implementation of self-protection of citizens in their own environment, and then fully planned and organised to include forces and services that are the protection of regular activities, and then the additional professional forces, up to the mass involvement of civil protection units, special and general purposes of all working citizens. It is common for protection and rescue measures to be shared by the kind of danger or type of protection they provide, and are based on the supplementary protocol of the Geneva Conventions for the war situation. Timely informing the public of the occurrence of dangers and alarms, emergency services, evacuations. Then, removing people and property and protecting against combat poisons, saving from ruins, providing first medical assistance and caring for the sick, fighting fires, detecting and marking dangerous zones. Then explosive means, acceptance of the endangered population and accommodation, and recovery of the terrain. In addition to those rescue measures, the following protection and rescue measures are still covered: protection and rescue from the destruction of high dams, and defence against floods, veterinary protection and assistance, protection and rescue of plants and plant products, protection and rescue from water, and protection from epidemics. Lately, there has been a growing need to protect and save people, removing the consequences of accidents caused by man and on buildings built by humans. This special service had a major impact on the right code, I cite an example in Vukovar when it was high water, where civil protection played a major role and saved many of the facilities from breaking water into the city. Here, I'd like to finish now. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6162	Thank you. We have two replicas. First Mr. Tihomir Vinkovic. Here you go. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6163	Mr. President, so the replica refers to this part that civil protection is exclusively a humanitarian activity. I would only remind an esteemed colleague and other parliamentary representatives that civil protection is carried out in accordance with the law exclusively by means of local self-government. So, cities, municipalities are obliged to form units of local self-government and have little help from either the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the competent ministries. As far as I'm concerned, I'm interested in this part of this memo, with what amount of financial resources the government intends, or the competent ministry, if civil protection is moving into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior. What part of the funds are intended to form these units of civil protection because without the formation of units of civil protection I will only remind you as the esteemed representative has said that this is not about any humanitarian activity since the units of civil protection must be formed. And regarding the Director of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, I'll just remind my esteemed colleague Lucin that with certain incompetence, I'm not an expert in protection and rescue. I will just remind myself that during the “Kornat tragedy, ” he was on vacation and that he has not even shown himself about it so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6164	Thank you. Answer Mr. Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6165	Here I would say that I've just pointed out that both cities and municipalities besides professional existence and humanitarian organizations or actually voluntary in that sense I thought, and you've seen in all such dangerous situations that you don't see who's professional here, who's a volunteer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6166	Replica Mr. Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6167	Greetings, Mr. President. When you were talking about the kinds of tragedies, or accidents that may arise and the domain of civil protection, then I am obliged to replicate in that part that this now means within the Directorate for the Environment, the European Commission's Civil Protection Sector, which deals with the six-year plan that has most come into play, means because of the Member States' desire to provide their members with assistance, and based on bad experiences both France and Greece in the process of fire itself, they decided to allocate 190 million euros for this six-year period. There were also talks here that 20m euros could be allocated on an annual basis to Croatia. That is not true, because only 8m euros per year will be allocated to Croatia. However, for which parts and why it can be singled out. First of all, it can be singled out for training processes, changing expert teams and training processes as best as possible, meaning in this part of which we talked about, and that's where we need to work. On the other hand, “monitoring and information center” is the main center within that directorate that takes care of all disasters. Thus, throughout the whole year, he has kept in mind that he provides specific help to volunteers and for the more difficult forms of tragedy and in the financial part, not only in the people but also in the equipment. What I'm appealing to right from this data and based on this knowledge and data is that I hope that, I don't know who was on the information day last year, I hope that there was a minister on the information day that organized the Directorate for the Environment. But I hope that this year someone will be there, too, and I hope that this year, if we don't give God, there will be any disaster, Croatia will already have a way to look for these funds outside and please don't mean we will be without those funds, or we will be without these people and help from outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6168	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6169	Mr. President, I'll just answer one of Mr. Lucin's questions. Since, with my opinion, some debate has come out of the framework of this memo, but it is tightly tied, so I allow regional headquarters in Divulja what the President of the Croatian Government Dr Sanader has announced, the plan remains to be developed in the regional centre, since the past fire season has shown us that neighbouring countries in particular Bosnia and Herzegovina from whose area forest fires are very often coming to the territory of the Republic of Croatia and creating a problem, is neither human or materially teamed, and we want to form this regional centre for which we have both received support and in the countries of the European Community, strengthen both Croatian capacities but also help neighbouring countries to raise their level. So with the Divulje project as a regional centre, but no longer in this concept that has been so far, don't be angry, but regional headquarters to have a director and have some name that hasn't given a single concrete programme, we're going to develop this centre in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6170	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I didn't see, I'm sorry. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6171	Thank you very much. I'm glad Mr. Minister, what's going that way. But I have no reason to be angry because the whole story started to develop in that direction. And what's happened for the past four years, or five years, is nothing happened, and it's not my fault, is it, and you know why we didn't go into detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6172	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6173	I asked Mr. Minister, by the way, Slavonca the question, and that's about just financing civil protection. It all fell to local self-government units, so from the formation of a unit of civil protection, fire, etc. I think that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can further help with these funds to make it work. For example, if we talk about equipment for the very civil protection unit that is for cities such as Djakovo and Najice numbers from 30 to 35 people need uniforms. I think we have different kinds of uniforms that can be used. It is also related to the purchase of fire equipment where you have these fire trucks and the purchase goes through the Ministry of Interior and serves to protect and operate civil protection, and local self-government units, with the release of certain percentages, have to pay VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6174	Thank you. We're going to vote on certain laws. First. The final draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in "The Financial Instrument for Civil Protection". The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. Let's vote and check it out. I find that with 118 for, nothing against, one against and one abstention, nothing abstention. So, one against, nothing abstention, 118 for, accepted proposal of this law. Thank you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6177	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. At its 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of Presidents, Vice-Presidents and members of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament. President Dragan Kovacevic, Vice-President Zlatko Horvat, members of Krešo Filipović, Franjo Lucić, Goran Marić, Milivo Škvorc, Davor Huška, Boris Klemenić, Ljubo Jurčić, Branko Grčić, Gordan Maras, Nadica Jelas and Zvonimir Mršić are relieved in the Committee for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6178	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I find that the proposal has been accepted unanimously by 86 votes. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6179	Thank you. At the 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of Presidents, Vice-Presidents and members of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament, the duties of President Andrija Hebrang, Vice-President Ranko Ostojić, members Ivan Bagarić, Carmela Caparin, Stjepan Milinković, Nedjeljko Strikić, Nedjeljka Klarić, Davorko Vidović, Miranda Mrsić, Željko Jovanovic, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6180	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? The abstentions? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 89 votes, the committee's proposal has been accepted. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6181	At the 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of Presidents, Vice-Presidents and members of the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament. President Ivan Bagarić, Vice-President Boro Grubišić, members Ivo Andrić, Petar Mlinarić, Rade Božnjak, Vedran Rožić, Bozica Šolić, Dragan Vukić, Ivica Pančić, Tanja Vrbat, Brankica Crljenko, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić and Daniel Mondekar are relieved of their duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6182	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting the Committee's proposal to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 90 votes, the Committee's proposal has been accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6183	At its 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of Presidents, Vice-Presidents and members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament. President Jerko Rosin, Vice-President Mirela Holy, members Marijana Petir, Krešimir Gulić, Angelko Mihalić, Vedran Rožić, Petar Selem, Boris Matković, Slavko Linić, Vlatko Podner, Goran Heffer, Željko Vincelj and Boris Miletic were relieved of their duties in the Committee for Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6184	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the Committee's proposal to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 92 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6185	The Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held at the 9th session held on 23 April 2008 unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of Presidents, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament. President Zlatko Koračević, Vice-President Krešo Filipović, members Dragan Vukić, Stjepan Fiolić, Tomislav Čuljak, Branko Kutija, Nevenka Marinović, Zdravko Kelić, Dragica Zgrebec, Goran Heffer, Zoran Vinković, Dragutin Bodakos and Vlatko Podner are relieved in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6186	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for this proposal committee? Thank you. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 92 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6187	At the 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution and Selection of the Vice-President of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. First, the duties of Vice-President of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament Tomislav Ivic are resolved. And secondly, the vice-president of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament is elected Mato Biljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6188	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for this proposal committee? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. It determines that s, unanimously with 91 votes, was accepted by the Committee's proposal. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6189	The Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held at the 9th session held on 23 April 2008 unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. The duties of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament are hereby resolved on 8 April 2008 at the personal request of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6190	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for this proposal committee? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 91 votes, the Committee's proposal has been accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6191	The Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held at the 9th session held on 23 April 2008 unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. The duties of members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament are hereby resolved on 8 April 2008 at the personal request of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6192	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for this proposal committee? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 91 votes, the Committee's proposal has been accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6193	At the 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. In the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Boris Šprem, Vice-President Tomislav Ivić, members Josip Djakić, Tomislav Čuljak, Stanko Grčić, Niko Rebić, Branko Kutija, Angelko Mihalić, Vesna Pusić, Arsen Bauk, Ante Kotromanović, Željka Antunović and Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6194	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a proposal for a decision, i.e. a proposal for a vote committee. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Abstained? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 92 votes, the Committee's proposal has been accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6195	At its 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Goapodering of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament is elected: for President Dragan Kovacevic, for Vice President Zlatko Horvat, for members Krešo Filipović, Davor Huška, Boris Klemenić, Franjo Lucić, Goran Marić, Milivo Škvorc, Zvonimir Mršić, Nadica Jelaš, Ivan Hanžek, Ljubo Jurčić and Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6196	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for the Committee's proposal, please raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? Abstained? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 92 votes, the Committee's proposal has been accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6197	The Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held at the 9th session held on 23 April 2008 unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Assembly elects: for President Zdenka Chuhnil, for Vice-President Damir Kain, for members Dragan Kovacevic, Šimo Djurdjevic, Branko Kuti, Anton Mance, Željko Turk, Vojislav Stanimirović, Miljenko Doric, Dragica Zgrebec, Luka Denon, Zdravko Ronko and Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6198	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for this proposal committee? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Abstained? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 93 votes, the Committee's proposal has been accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6199	At the 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament is elected: for President Boris Kunst, for Vice-President Goran Beus Richembergh, for members Bozica Šolić, Ljubica Lukačić, Ante Kulušić, Stanko Grčić, Stjepan Milinković, Milivo Škvorc, Gordana Sobol, Branko Crljenko, Vesna Škulić, Davorko Vidović and Sonja Šimunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6200	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of the committee's proposal? Thank you very much. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 93 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6201	At the 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Health and Social Care Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Health and Social Care of Croatia is elected: for President Andrija Hebrang, for Vice President Ranko Ostojić, for members Ivan Bagarić, Carmela Caparin, Nedjeljka Klarić, Stjepan Milinković, Nedjeljko Strikić, Stjepan Kundić, Goran Beus Richembergh, Željko Jovanovic, Mirano Mrsić, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić and Davorko Vidović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6202	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 93 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6203	At its 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia. For President Ivan Bagarić, Vice President Boro Grubišić, members Ivo Andrić, Rade Bošnjak, Petar Mlinarić, Vedran Rožić, Ivanka Roksandić, Dragan Vukić, Branko Crljenko, Daniel Mondekar, Ivica Pančić, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić and Tanja Vrbat are elected to the Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6204	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Abstained? There isn't. Or is it? There isn't. A unanimously accepted proposal with 94 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6205	At the 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly elects: for President Jerko Rosin, for Vice President Luka Denon, for members Krešimir Gulić, Borislav Matković, Angelko Mihalić, Marijana Petir, Vedran Rožić, Petar Selem, Željko Vincelj, Mirela Holly, Slavko Linić, Vlatko Podnar and Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6206	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 94 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6207	At the 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the election of the president, vice president and members of the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament is selected: for President Marijana Petir, Vice-President Mirela Holy, for members Tomislav Vrdoljak, Ivan Vučić, Borislav Matković, Krešimir Gulić, Ivan Shantek, Stjepan Kundić, Željko Vincelj, Marin Jurjevic, Ivica Pančić, Zdenko Franić and Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6208	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this committee proposal? Thank you. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Abstained? I've seen it before. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No abstentions. Please, I would like to confirm that this proposal has been unanimously accepted by 95 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6209	At the 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision to elect the president, vice-president and members of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament is selected: for President Dragica Zgrebec, Vice-President Krešo Filipović, for members Željko Turk, Stjepan Fiolić, Zdravko Kelić, Branko Kutija, Nevenka Marinović, Dragan Vukić, Zlatko Koračević, Dragutin Bodakos, Goran Heffer, Zoran Vinković and Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6210	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Thank you. Restraint? There isn't. I find it unanimous with 94 votes and one abstention, one abstention, therefore 94 and one abstention of the accepted committee proposal. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6211	At its 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on the Regional Development of Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament. For President Zlatko Koračević, Vice-President Zdravko Kelić, members Niko Rebić, Zivko Nenadić, Ante Kulušić, Krešimir Gulić, Petar Mlinarić, Boris Klemenić, Vlatko Podnar, Dragutin Bodakoš, Zvonimir Mršić, Luka Denon and Davor Bernardić, are elected to the Committee for Regional Development of Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6212	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. A 95-vote proposal was unanimously accepted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6213	At the 9th session held on 23 April 2008, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. Vesna Pusic is elected as a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6214	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that most of the votes with 94 votes and 1 abstentions have been accepted by the committee. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6215	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 9th session held on 23 April 2008 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. Zlatko Horvat is elected member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6216	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in favour of this committee proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The committee's proposal with 95 votes was unanimously accepted. I also thank the board presidents and you for your patience and participation, of course, and this is the kind of successful participation I wanted to say. We move to the point of the Committee's proposal for selection, appointment and administrative affairs. I ask the chairman of the board, Mrs Majdenic, and I suggest we vote by raising our hands because it is a longer procedure with this. There's a lot of these points. Here you go, Mrs. Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6218	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament at the 10th session held on 25 April 2008 unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Vice-President, the election of the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, the state budget of the Croatian Parliament. First. The office of Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, Dragica Zgrebec, is hereby resolved. And two. For the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, the state budget of the Croatian Parliament is elected Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6219	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find the proposal has been accepted unanimously with 118 votes in favour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6220	At the 10th session held on 25 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a Decision on the resolution and election of the Vice-President of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. First. The duties of the Vice-President of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament Boris Šprem are hereby resolved. And two. Ivo Josipovic is elected vice-president of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6221	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The committee's proposal was accepted unanimously by 118 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6222	At the 10th session held on 25 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the election of a member of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Legislatives. First, a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament Bojan Hlač and secondly, is hereby elected as a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6223	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this committee proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 117 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6224	At the 10th session held on 25 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member and the election of a member of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament Zdenko Chuhnil and secondly, is hereby elected as a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee, Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6225	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 117 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6226	At the 10th session held on 25 April 2008, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. First, the member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament Ivan Hanžek and second, Branko Grčić is elected as a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6227	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 117 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6228	At the 10th session held on 25 April 2008, the Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution and Selection of a member of the Committee on Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Assembly. First, the duties of members of the Committee on Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Assembly of Luka Denon are resolved and two, Davor Bernardić is elected as a member of the Committee on Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6229	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 116 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6230	At the 10th session held on 25 April 2008, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution and Selection of Members of the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament. First, the member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Željko Antunović, and secondly, is hereby elected by Nada Čavlović Smiljanec as a member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6231	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 117 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6232	At the 10th session held on 25 April 2008, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. First, the responsibilities of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament Marin Jurjević and secondly, as a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament is elected Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6233	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 118 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6234	At the 10th session held on 25 April 2008, the Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament. First, members of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament Davor Bernardić and secondly, members of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament are elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6235	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 118 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6236	At the 10th session held on 25 April 2008, the Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament Bojan Hlač and secondly, a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relations of the Croatian Parliament is elected Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6237	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 118 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6238	At the 10th session held on 25 April 2008, the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision on discharge and selection of members of the National Committee. First, a member of the Neven Mimica National Committee is hereby authorised. Secondly, the National Committee for Members of the House of Representatives is elected Miljeko Doric. And a third. The presidents of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation and the Committee on European Integration are members of the National Committee in position and these are: Mario Zubović, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Neven Mimica, Chairman of the Committee on European Integration and Milorad Pupovac, Chairman of the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6239	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 118 votes, the committee's proposal is accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6240	At the 10th session held on 25 April 2008, the Committee for Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the "Memory area of Jasenovac". As a member of the "Memory area of Jasenovac" Council, Ivanka Roksandić, representative of the Croatian Parliament, is named.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6241	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 118 votes, this proposal has been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs! We continue the session Tuesday at 9:30 with the same agenda point and then another day, so Wednesday is Parliament's session. Thursday's a holiday, state holiday. And then the next week's session is again on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. And the agenda here, we continue with this session, and we're going to put these other points. I want you to get a good weekend's rest. Bon appétit. Thank you. I ask the chairman of the Selection and Appointing Committee, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic, to propose these proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6243	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 11th session held on 30 April 2008 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the resolution of members, the election of members of the Committee on Finance and the state budget of the Croatian Parliament. First. A member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, Gordan Maras, is hereby dismissed. And two. Dragica Zgrebec is elected as a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6244	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting the motion to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was accepted by 107 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6245	At the meeting held on 30 April 2008, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. First. The duties of member of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament Ivo Josipovic are hereby resolved. And two. Boris Šprem is elected member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6246	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score! This proposal was accepted by 106 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6247	At the 12th session held on 9 May 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of members of the elections, and the election of members of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. First. A member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, Niko Rebić, is hereby dismissed. And two. Karmela Caparin is elected as a member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6248	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was accepted by 100, mostly 103 votes for and 1 abstention. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6249	At the 12th session held on 9 May 2008, the Committee for Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament. First. The duties of member of the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament Krešimir Ćosic are hereby resolved. And two. Davor Huška is elected member of the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6250	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score! This proposal was voted by 106 MPs and 2 abstentions. So most of the votes were accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6251	The Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held at the 14th session held on 16 May 2008 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. First. A member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, Nevenka Majdenić, is hereby dismissed. And two. Vesna Buterin is elected as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6252	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score! This proposal was accepted by the majority of 103 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6253	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 14th session of 9 May 2008 and 14th session held on 16 May 2008 unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Supervisory Board of the Trust Fund for Retracted Assets. First, for the members of the Supervisory Board of the Trust Fund for Retracted Assets are appointed from the ranks of prominent legal experts: Miroslav Šeparović and Mladen Bodek. Secondly, the chairman of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament and the Chairman of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament are members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for Compensation of Disposal of Assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6254	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting the Committee's proposal to vote. Who's in? Vote, please engage. The result? This proposal was accepted by most votes; 103 votes for, 1 abstention. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6255	At the 11th session held on 30 April 2008, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament identified the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Management Programme. First, for members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, it is named: Branko Roglić, employer representative, Stjepan Kolarić, union representative Nikola Kristic, representative of NGOs dealing with the problem of corruption, Zeljko Horvatic, representative of the academic community, Stjepan Turk, expert representative and Smiljanka Škugor-Hrnčević, media representative Other [[Thank you. I'm opening a debate.]] The term of office of members of the National Council for the Monitoring and Implementation of the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption shall continue until the end of the term of office of the Croatian Parliament. [[/Intruder: What?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6256	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Here you are, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6257	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament and we in the SDP express our dissatisfaction with the Committee, which was proposed by Mrs. Smiljanko Škugor-Hrnčević, Director of HINA in order to represent the media in this body. Namely the memo is in, the letter from... This year, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs asked the Croatian Journalist Society and Croatian Radio Television to submit to the Committee a harmonised proposal for a member of the National Council of Journalists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian journalistic society and Croatian Radio Television have agreed and proposed for candidate Luka Brajl, vice president of the Croatian Journalist Society. We believe that the official elected and appointed by the ruling majority and Mrs. Škugor is the director of HINA in no way can he be a representative of the civil sector in this case of the media in the Council for the fight against corruption. We believe that this kind of staffing of the ruling party in advance ruins the credibility of the National Council and further reduces citizens' confidence in the institution of government, politics and politicians. My colleagues and colleagues of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Programme have an extremely important role to play, and I recently spoke with Mr Degert, who said that this is exactly what the Council will play a key role in the possibility of opening Chapter 23. So I believe that the appointment, Mrs. Skugor's proposal, is actually one proposal that we don't need. I propose that today we do not decide on Mrs. Škugor, to choose the other members of the Council and to consider once again the possibility that instead of Mrs. Škugor, not at all reducing her desire to contribute to the work of this Council, but given the function she performs, we believe that it would be more useful for someone in this body to be truly from the press profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6258	Is there anything the board president wants to say?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6259	Well, I'll just say that, the board discussed the proposals received by public invitation. The call was March 19th, 2008. 15 proposals have arrived. It is therefore proposed that the Committee propose 6.6 names from the area, hence as representatives of employers, representatives of the Union, representatives of NGOs dealing with the problem of corruption, representatives of the academic community, representatives of experts and media representatives. We've considered it all. I have to say that we really made this motion decision in one tolerated atmosphere. As for the employer's representative, we had one name, Branko Roglic, so unanimously. Union President Stjepan Kolaric. Representative of NGOs dealing with the problem of corruption Nikola Kristic, who, I must say immediately, is also a member of the CNB and Croatian Radio Television. So the Committee thought we already had one representative from the press profession. As a representative of the academic community, Zeljko Horvatic was president of the Academy of Legal Sciences. As a representative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Stjepan Turek and we had Smiljanko Škugor-Hrnčević as director of HINA and Luka Brajlo, vice president and member of the Executive Board of the CNB. Since we really believe that Mr Nikola Kristic is already a member or already coming from the media, we thought that Mrs Smiljanka Škugor-Hrnčević's excellent proposal and taking into account the politics of this Croatian Parliament on women's representation. We don't have any women here. So we thought Mrs Smiljanka Skugor-Hrncevic met all the conditions. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Besides, she's a woman. We've already had a debate here once in Parliament about, and it was just about that moment that there were no women. This time there are women, and since Nikola Kristic is a member of the CNB and HRT as head of NGOs dealing with the problem of corruption, we felt that we had made a quality proposal and we explained it. So with all these other arguments and representation women also have, I think they have their own importance. Besides, what I'd like to say is that Mr. Luka Brilo called himself. So he's got the support, but he called himself. And according to this, I think that the Committee is here to discuss and propose this proposal to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6260	Thank you very much. We have a proposal, we have a proposal from the Committee and, and we have a correction of Mr Nenad Stazic's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6261	Well, it's incorrect when Madam President here explains the board's opinion and says the board has held or the board has decided. The board was divided by this. The committee has also made clear its objections. Mr. President, are you going to allow here some kind of tolerated atmosphere to be discussed, or are you going to continue to make a phone call? So on the board there are clear remarks made here by fellow Jovanovic. We have a situation that the Croatian Journalist Society proposes candidate Brajl and the situation that their proposal is not respected, but is proposed by someone who is also a journalist and is part of this journalistic society, but is not suggested by the journalistic society. So, politics from the news society brings out whoever it wants, and it doesn't respect the suggestion of a journalistic society itself. That objection is... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6262	Thank you. The word came from agent Boris Kunst. Here you go. What about the weather? [[Intruder: No, I was only showing in time.]] Excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have a perfectly legitimate proposal from the Board of Selection, appointments. I put this proposal to the vote. Please engage and let's vote. The result? The election committee's proposal, the appointment was accepted by the majority of votes 77 to, 7 abstentions, 28 against. Let's move on. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency amending and supplementing the Protocol with the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of guarantees related to the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 36 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We've established an emergency procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Foreign Policy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Matjaž Praha Director of the National Nuclear Security Office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6264	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary. Let me explain this bill in a few sentences, I'm not going to read the whole name because it's very long. It is namely a protocol which is otherwise called the Small-Quantity Protocol. As you know, the Republic of Croatia is a signator of the Non-proliferation Treaty and is also a member of the International Atomic Energy Agency. This Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons was otherwise prepared in 1970 and in itself is a very generic contract and therefore it was necessary for the international community to establish a certain verification system to see countries implement or implement obligations under this Treaty. This task is entrusted to the International Atomic Energy Agency primarily in the system of its inspections. On the basis of all this, as well as other countries and the Republic of Croatia signed the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of guarantees regarding the Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1994. This Treaty shall specify precisely the obligations of the States and the activities to be implemented by the State in order to ensure that nuclear material does not spread in an unauthorized manner. In this case, it is also very important to mention that the International Community has recognised that there are a number of countries which do not have nuclear facilities in their territory and therefore has added to this Treaty this Protocol on small quantities that enables countries that do not have nuclear facilities on their territory to make their obligations more simple under that Treaty or to relax certain points of demand. We know that for the past ten years, there has been an increasing threat to international terrorism, or we can say from its worst form of nuclear terrorism, and in 2005 the International Community proposed to the International Atomic Energy Agency Board the revised Protocol on small quantities. This Protocol on small quantities brings additional obligations to the countries which have it in force, which is the first obligation to submit an initial report on the whole nuclear material. This is about uranium, plutonium and thorium, and some other elements that are important or can be involved in the development of nuclear weapons. The countries also have to and have an obligation to report on decisions to build a nuclear plant. And also countries with this revised Protocol on small quantities undertake to accept ad hoc and special inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency. From a technical point of view, there are no obstacles to meeting such amended criteria since the state authority responsible for nuclear safety or nuclear material control, namely the State Nuclear Safety Institute, fully monitors the state of nuclear material and activities in the Republic of Croatia. Following the adoption of the Protocol on small quantities, therefore, there will be no difficulty in implementing this revised Protocol. It is also important to note that this law will not require additional funding from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6265	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6266	Thank you very much. The Committee on Foreign Policy discussed the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency amending and supplementing the Protocol with the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of guarantees relating to the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, with the Final Proposal for a Law, P.Z. No. 36, which has been submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 28 March this year. I would like to point out the importance of this agreement supplementing the previously concluded Protocol with the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency, which has undertaken to report in advance to the International Atomic Energy Agency on the possession of nuclear material using it in peaceful nuclear activities in its national territory or under its jurisdiction or control regardless of the quantity and decision on the construction or approval of the facility for that purpose. The Committee took note that the implementation of this law will take place through the regular activities of the National Nuclear Security Institute, which keeps detailed records of all nuclear materials in the Republic of Croatia, and that the basis of the database conducted by this State Institute is fully possible to meet the requirements arising from the agreement for the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Committee on Foreign Policy unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency amending and supplementing the Protocol under the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of guarantees concerning the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6267	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6268	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The HDZ Club will give full support to the proposal for this law for a simple reason because it contributes to common security through better quality prevention of nuclear proliferation. According to certain intelligence assessments and information after 11 September 2001, it was necessary for different reasons and an assessment to do so. the existing standard protocol on small quantities,... Make it more restrictive in the context of reporting. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] The entire history of these changes, the update of this mechanism is defined by a series of steps. Step number one that I would like to emphasise concerns the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency, which was concluded in Vienna on 9 June 1994. Agreement on the application of guarantees relating to the non-proliferation Treaty, which was then extended together with the Protocol with the agreement relating to countries which have limited, i.e. small amounts of nuclear material. The second step in the period until 2005 or 2005 the International Atomic Energy Agency estimated that there was an objective need for the amendments to the provisions of the Protocol to the Agreement in relations with the States with which the Protocol was concluded with the Agreement on the application of guarantees related to the Treaty on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, since it was concluded that, in the new international relations and circumstances, it did not provide sufficient guarantees to achieve high quality standards, i.e. Control of the non-proliferation treaty of nuclear weapons. A whole series of reasons. We all remember the Pakistani scientist Khan well. The link between Pakistan, Libya, Korea, Iran, etc. and that information, like many others, referred to the need for a more restrictive mechanism relating to the small-scale protocol. On the basis of these reasons, the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency decided on 20 September 2005 to maintain the International Atomic Energy Agency control system with implementing and guarantee agreements in relation to the Treaty on the Expansion of Nuclear Weapons. However, the standardised texts of these protocols shall be amended and complemented in part of the envisaged criteria. The Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency authorised the Director-General to conclude with the Exchange of Letters with all States with which the Protocols are concluded under agreements, as well as with the Republic of the Croatian Agreement amending and supplementing the Protocol with the agreement on the application of guarantees concerning the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. And step four. The Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency amended the updated protocol in the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of guarantees relating to the Non-proliferation Treaty. It was concluded in Vienna by exchanges of letters from the International Atomic Energy Agency since 15 December 2005 and from Croatian letters, a response from 7 January 2008. Croatian Letter, the reply was signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia by Mr Vladimir Matek then a permanent representative of the Republic of Croatia at the International Atomic Energy Agency. And what I still need at the end of this legal procedure that has a clear goal which I highlighted at the beginning to point out. The State Nuclear Security Office with the present director is the government body in the Republic of Croatia, which is responsible for nuclear safety. It keeps detailed records of all nuclear materials in the Republic of Croatia. The database is regularly restored, i.e. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The implementation of the Law attesting the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency amending and supplementing the Protocol with the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency, on the application of guarantees relating to the nuclear-proliferation contract, will take place through such regular activities as here and said regular activities of the State Department of Nuclear Safety as authorities responsible for nuclear security tasks. And what's most important. The implementation of this Agreement will not require additional financial resources from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, with existing resources, as well as proven professionality and seriousness, we hope that the implementation of this proposal of the law will also be done equally well and quality in the interests of not only the Republic of Croatia but also the wider international community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6269	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6270	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. One very, very short intervention I have here. First of all, I'm going to say that the HNS club will absolutely support this bill of approval. But I'm going to warn you that I don't know which way something happens to us all the time, and it shouldn't happen. It's about the next one. If you have carefully read this introductory explanation and if you have carefully followed the individual dates that appear in this material, then you will probably all come to the same conclusion that we have come to in our club. Namely, the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency authorised the Director-General, on 20 September 2005, to conclude with the Exchange of Letters with all States an agreement amending and supplementing the Protocol. So, I hope you remember that date on September 20, 2005. By exchanging letters from the International Atomic Energy Agency from 15 December 2005 and from the Croatian reply from 7 January 2008 etc. So, colleagues and colleagues, we should have kept warning of this for only two months and 25 days to this Agency to draw up the text of the agreement to supplement and amend the protocol, to refer it to all the countries of the signatories, and to us in Croatia, the Croatian Government, two years and 23 days ago, to read this letter and to make it clear here finally referred here to confirmation. That's not good. It is especially bad that after such a delay, this bill comes to the benches by faith or not an emergency procedure. It's an emergency procedure. I am only saying this because in a few years we will be members of the European Union. There is an institution of parliamentary supervision in the European Union. So when the European institution comes up with a specific project, a programme, it sends these proposals to national parliaments, and the national parliament in the competent professional body, and then also at the plenary session, it points out the proposal and delivers its opinion, its position back to that European body. For this round, a period of between 6 and 8 weeks is foreseen. Therefore, we will have to change a lot in our work, behavior, deadlines, the seriousness of our work. Here's what I think we should say... He repeats that years and years pass to make black and white technique, because there's nothing to change here in agreement, accept or refuse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, it takes us a long time to realize that we need to raise our hands for something as banal as it is in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6271	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6272	Mr. President, the honored representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and fellow MPs. As the international community headed by the International Atomic Energy Agency has long recognised the threat of nuclear terrorism, several initiatives have been launched to prevent nuclear and other radioactive material from coming into unwanted hands, primarily criminals and terrorists. Therefore, in April 2005, the International Atomic Energy Agency, through the Board of Governors, warned of weaknesses in the so-called system. Protocol on small quantities as a belonging protocol of the non-proliferation treaty of nuclear weapons. It is interesting that the protocol was adopted in January or early 2005 and immediately after 3 months or 4 months, the International Atomic Energy Agency recognised weaknesses in its own protocol, since the Protocol allows countries to possess certain amounts of nuclear, radiological material without reporting to the Agency. More specifically, it's 10 tons of natural uranium, 20 tons of poor uranium and one kilo of plutonium, which is quite enough to build, of course, with the proper technology of these centrifuges one to two nuclear bombs, and thanks to the very activity of Pakistani scientist Kahn, this technology has really spread to many countries that would be better off not having it. So these quantities could have been forged, so let's say if you had 999 grams of plutonium you didn't submit to the International Agency's notification. Therefore, after several months, the Protocol adopted by EIA was subject to amendments. As a consequence, the criteria of this notification have been changed and what is interesting for the Republic of Croatia is that the Republic of Croatia and those states that have a limited range of nuclear activities on their territory until the time when it is in the territory or under its jurisdiction or control, and let us remember this word of control, have some nuclear material in those quantities that exceed the limits set or decide on the construction or approval of nuclear facilities, in advance and timely reporting to the Agency on the possession of nuclear material or inform the Agency, inform the Agency as soon as a decision is taken to build or approve the construction of a nuclear facility. However, it is envisaged that the implementation of this institution is carried out through the regular activity of the State Department of radiation protection, but I would remind you that, in the sense of this law, the entire activities of the International Atomic Energy Agency shall be subject to nuclear material and radioactive material for which it is competent to control the State Department for radiation protection. Moreover, according to the Law on the Protection against ionising radiation and the security of the source of ionising radiation, the State Institute for radiation protection is precisely the holder of the protection and measures in the event of an extraordinary event, which is an event related to activities related to ionising radiation or the safety of nuclear plants, caused by circumstances no longer controlled, which result from the exposure of exposed workers, populations, radioactive pollution of the environment, and in accordance with the act implementing measures against ionising radiation. In other words, the implementation of this law, which will be passed by the administration, should also take place through the regular activity of the State Department of Nuclear Safety and the State Department for radiation protection. The Republic of Croatia, within the meaning of the Nuclear Safety Act, does not really have a nuclear facility on its territory for the time being, and is the activity of the State Institute for radiation protection as a carrier of measures to protect against ionising radiation in the event of an extraordinary event, as we have said, that is their jurisdiction in terms of a positive law, and that includes preparedness for the event of an accident, so its activity is complementary as much as possible and in some way controlled by the activities of the State Nuclear Security Office. The State Department for radiation protection and the State Nuclear Security Office are indeed complementary institutions similar to that of work and the number of employees, but given the number of real interventions relating to the taking of safeguard measures in the event of an extraordinary event in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the State Institute for radiation protection has a larger number of interventions. It is fortunate that the National Nuclear Security Institute has no intervention, as this would mean a malfunction on a nuclear facility, and the only nuclear facility nearby is Krško Nuclear Power Plant. It should be noted that both institutions in their activities rely on cooperation and the work of research institutes, and in particular the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine, which conducts monitoring and radioactive environmental contamination in the Republic of Croatia and the Ruđer Bošković Institute, which participates in the monitoring of the impact of Krško Nuclear Power Plant on the environment in the Republic of Croatia. However, the system should be optimised by more active involvement of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Ministry of Environmental Protection, Civil Protection, etc. Let's just mention the fact that exactly the scientific educational institutions and cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency receive multiple resources compared to the Croatian membership of the same agency and can be rightly assumed that more actively including the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports would increase and make more effective use of these funds. However, the scope and quality of a systematic study of the radioactivity of ionising radiation, species and radioactive substances and their radioactivity in the environment should be improved not only with regard to the control and prevention of radioactive contamination of the environment in the Republic of Croatia, but also with regard to the control of such material, but also with a view to improving the database on trends in radioactive contamination, and in line with the recommendations of the European Commission since 2000. In fact, due to the proximity of Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the binary decision-making system is not sufficient, it is dangerous/not dangerous, the permitted level/no permitted level should already be monitored and analysed in order to properly conclude in the event of any extraordinary event. And such extraordinary events are almost every day about which the work and report of the State Department of radiation protection is witnessed. For example, the Institute is working effectively within international projects involved in border surveillance and for the time being it has established traffic surveillance in 15 places, potential transport of radioactive material, including road, rail, ship and air transport. The increased scope of activity and research related to this problem and, in general, to the science of radiation and nuclear science would also help to maintain the necessary number of experts and scientists and ensure that these people do not disappear from the system. Let's remember the number of students enrolled in technical colleges, especially physics, from which nuclear physicists and dosimetry scientists are recruited, protecting against radiation. Unfortunately, the disappearance of nuclear scientists and people from the profession takes place in many countries from our wider environment. And that's exactly what this law predicts and control of peaceful nuclear activities. I'm asking who's gonna do it if we don't have people. Otherwise, the question arises as to who will address this problem in the context of the trend in the return of many European Union countries and the wider environment of the nuclear option. As it is a law that should certainly be welcomed under the international community's efforts to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the SDP will certainly support it. However, we call on the Government to consider the overall context of radiological nuclear problems in the Republic of Croatia as well as the fact that we have two unusually complementary institutions dealing with the same or similar problems, which is somewhat unusual for a country that does not have nuclear facilities in its territory. There would be certain logic that there are two laws, institutions, or as bodies of the state administration dealing with radiation protection issues and nuclear security problems if it were to be in the hint of considering some nuclear option, or building a nuclear power plant which I personally support, but that's a different story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6273	Thank you. And in an individual debate, Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6274	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow MPs. This law therefore supports efforts, as I said, of the International Community to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction and to reduce the threat of terrorism and criminal activity related to nuclear or radioactive material, which should certainly be welcomed and supported. However, paradoxically, in the Republic of Croatia, despite the fact that even two government bodies dealing with radiological and nuclear security still operate in Croatia, we do not have a valid and generally adopted plan and programme of procedures in the event of a nuclear or radiological accident. In other words, we are now going to help this law fight nuclear terrorism and the spread of nuclear material without solving the situation in the most secure environment. Given the proximity of the Krško town of Zagreb Nuclear Power Plant, which is located only 30 kilometers from the very centre of the Republic of Croatia and the city of Zagreb, it is not only paradoxical but also incomprehensible. Can you imagine what would happen even in the event of a minor nuclear accident in Krško after the public was sensitized by a Chernobyl disaster? Relocation, is she out of the question. There would be a traffic collapse, probably a collapse of the economy not only in this part, not only in Croatia, but in this part of Europe. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia must simply have one coherent, smart, designed system of plans and procedures for the event of a nuclear accident. On the website and one and the other institutions, say the State Institute for radiation protection and has no search engine and on the website of the National Nuclear Security Institute when you type in the accident you have zero data, no results, when the types of terrorism have no results. So it's simply unacceptable. Secondly, nuclear security should also be noted that the Republic of Croatia does not have any nuclear facilities on its territory. Therefore, it also implies that there is no warehouse of low and medium radioactive waste even though such waste exists. Moreover, it continues to be generated by the normal work of many economic activities, industry and medical institutions. It is easy to assume that part of the radioactive waste in the Republic of Croatia is being taken care of by the principle of "find out how you can" and then we daren't imagine where it ends. The example of the temporary disposal of radioactive waste is within the circle of the "Ruđer Boskovic" Institute and it is really good that this waste is temporarily taken care of in a way that is provided by scientists of the most renting institution in the Republic of Croatia, so the scientific elite of the Republic of Croatia. But I remind you that the Ruđer Bošković Institute is located only a few kilometers from the very centre of Croatia, from the Trg Ban Jelačić, Mark's square, so three, four times closer or ten times closer than the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. It would be better if such waste were taken care of in accordance with the rules of the profession in a place where the waist ordered it. somewhere in a waterproof rock, in a non-trust area rather than near the largest urban anglomeration in the Republic of Croatia. So I'm asking a question that these two institutions are concerned about radioactive waste when they're already concerned about radiological and nuclear security and provide such a moving concern for non-proliferation of nuclear material that we don't have in this form in which it appears in the Protocol on Small Amounts or in the Treaty on Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The existence of two separate institutions in the Republic of Croatia would therefore be justified for a country the size of the Republic of Croatia if the Republic of Croatia had a nuclear facility on its territory, so a nuclear waste storage facility or a nuclear power plant. I personally welcome this in the light of the galloping shortages of fossil fuels and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, but then it should be said to the public that the existence of the two institutions is not due to the irrationality of the state administration but to the longer-term thinking of the energy policy of the Republic of Croatia, which does not exclude the nuclear option. Otherwise, I repeat that for the time being for a country with the scope of nuclear activities such as those in the Republic of Croatia would be far more appropriate and far more efficient so for the state and the state budget that these two institutions, in terms of optimising their activities, are fusiond into one and then, as I said in the presentation on behalf of the SDP Club, expand their activities both with scientific institutions and with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Civil Protection, which, in fact, together with these two institutions, needs to create a plan and a programme of action for the event of nuclear accident. The truth is, it should be said that both institutions, I repeat, cooperate perfectly with each other with a scientific community dealing with radiation science and nuclear problems, but the system would undoubtedly function better. And like I said, we'll vote for this law. However, we really need to look at the problem in a broader context and think about it in the light of European integration, which will also ask us if we have a plan and a programme that I have already mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6275	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6276	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I won't say much about this wheel. I took my word only to give full support to this law or the Treaty of Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The collapse of the Eastern bloc has weakened nuclear weapons control and control worldwide. Then we can remember what happened on September 11th and what people are doing on the ground, about this international terrorism, and we can remember everyday activities, or images from the streets of Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan, people who are willing to kill themselves to kill others. Then we can only imagine what would happen to these people if they fell into the hands of nuclear weapons. This law and this contract, he said everything starting with the first of these days when the Republic of Croatia became a member of '93. A year. And I think that our institute should be given full support with all these other remarks that have been made that it is necessary to edit and prepare for and what can happen with the use of nuclear weapons or nuclear fuel. And then even that point before we worked on it, civil protection wouldn't be of great benefit unless we were ready to respond to the needs or to protect ourselves from the worst. I certainly support this, and here I only took so much to give full support to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6277	Thank you very much. And finally Mr. Matijaž Prah Director of the National Nuclear Security Institute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6278	I would like to thank Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the esteemed MPs, the esteemed Mr. Secretary of State. I would express my gratitude to the MPs, to all the MPs because they recognized the importance of confirming this law. I would also like to point out that at the time of the establishment of the National Nuclear Safety Institute in 2005 only about 600 kilograms of nuclear material was recorded in the Republic of Croatia, I am not talking here about radioactive, total radioactive material, because there is a significant difference. At this point thanks to both the intelligence community and our cooperation with the inspection of the International Atomic Energy Agency in the Republic of Croatia, we have a total record of approximately 3,000 kilograms of nuclear material. Therefore, material that can be used or can be used precisely for the purpose of proliferation. Here, why did it take so long for this protocol to be found on your benches? It is precisely the reason for the establishment of this entire verification system in the Republic of Croatia since the State Nuclear Security Institute was founded and started working only in mid-2005. And after that, it was necessary to carry out all the necessary actions so that these things could be prepared and that the Republic of Croatia could submit an initial report on the entire nuclear material inventory within the deadline provided for in this amended protocol. Once again, I thank everyone very much. Respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6279	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll vote when the conditions are met. Let's move on. The final proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency amending and supplementing the Protocol under the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of guarantees relating to the Non-proliferation Treaty of Nuclear Weapons. It was an emergency procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please, let's vote. I find that this law has been passed by majority vote, 116 for, nothing abstentions and one against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6282	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. In order to regulate all sectoral programmes, projects and activities under bilateral assistance provided by the Kingdom of Denmark to Croatia, the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark was signed on 24 October 2007 on general conditions for the implementation of Danish bilateral assistance to the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 January 2008 without a time limit. Only the general conditions of cooperation shall be governed by the contract in question. Among other things, the exemption from payment of VAT, customs duties and fees of goods and services provided under the programme, conditions of stay for persons working on the implementation of projects financed from Danish bilateral assistance, while specific implementing documents will be drawn up for the implementation of each programme. In this regard, we may be able to show that the bodies of the state administration can be very effective. We can point out that already on 12 November 2007, the first implementing Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Denmark has been signed in connection with the accession assistance of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2010, which regulates the continuation of the Danish pre-accession assistance programme to the Republic of Croatia, or the second phase of the public sector capacity building project, and for which the implementation of the Kingdom of Denmark has provided financial resources of around 12 million Danish crowns, i.e. around 11.8 million kuna. The second phase continues to follow the general objectives of Croatia's accession-enhancing programme to the European Union by promoting the development of a responsible, efficient and transparent administration at the central, regional and local level, and is particularly focused on an integrated human potential development strategy, further building capacity of the Centre for Education of the Central State Administration and improved access to education and training in order to strengthen the capacities of the Republic of Croatia in public administration. On behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for the implementation of this Treaty and, on behalf of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Denmark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6283	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Foreign Policy discussed as a home working body at its 4th session held on 23 April the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the General Conditions of Danish Bilateral Assistance to Croatia with the Final Proposal for Law P.Z.E. No 43, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Act on 4 April 2008, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. I would like to point out the importance of this Agreement with the Kingdom of Denmark in view of its excellent cooperation with the country so far, and the assistance provided so far, mainly in the area of the training of civil servants. The Committee on Foreign Policy is to set up a legal framework for the implementation of the future bilateral assistance of the Kingdom of Denmark to Croatia, and to sign it in order to establish the conditions for the implementation of programmes, projects and other activities financed from Danish bilateral assistance, and to contribute to strengthening good relations with the Kingdom of Denmark and to achieving our foreign-political priority objective of Croatia's accession to the European Union. Therefore, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the general conditions of Danish bilateral assistance to Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6285	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6286	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a contract that is technical and preparing this exhibition, knowing, of course, that everything that is technically necessary will be said by our representative of the Government I found myself in a dilemma about what to talk about, so it seemed to me that the most important thing here was to tell what such a contract is and what the framework for what this contract is going to be. In addition to the assistance provided by the Republic of Croatia through the European Union assistance programmes, in its preparations for membership in the European Union. We all know it's the CARDS, the PHAR, the ISPA, the SAPARD, and now the IPAs. The bilateral assistance of a number of foreign countries, I say on purpose by foreign states, because it is not always the case, although this would be the case for a person to make such a logical conclusion only on members of the European Union and some non-members of the European Union therefore provide Croatia with assistance in joining the European Union. This bilateral aid has so far played, and it still plays a rather important role. In fact, Croatia has found itself in one position when, in fact, from the status of the recipient country, it becomes the status of the country that is slowly starting to help others. We are all and I believe that you will agree in Croatia that Croatia has come to this stage and we would like to be sure that it will pass this transition phase very quickly and come to the status when Croatia will not need such assistance and when we will be the sole provider because at the same time it will mean that Croatia is a richer country. Therefore, both experiences and in monetary terms and that they will be able to achieve their role in the International Community, which is to give other people such assistance. However, some countries, and there is also the Kingdom of Denmark, have estimated that in certain areas of Croatia, there is still a need for assistance in specific knowledge and that is exactly what it is. In fact, all the assistance that Croatia has received from the Kingdom of Denmark so far if you took the various projects that we have used for the last 15 years would actually be undermining the reform of state administration or public administration even more widely. So, in very different areas, but still concentrated on raising this ability in the state administration and actually preparing Croatia as much as during this pre-accession period that is extremely important, because it is actually necessary to prepare for this entry. I would dare say even more important to us about how we will function when we join the European Union, because actually when we talk about the benefits of European Union membership we will primarily be able to assess how much we will benefit when we become a Member State of that membership. And that will be crucial among others and the state administration as we've been building these years and we'll be building it for a while, because everyone knows that reform of the state administration is one process that lasts, a horizontal reform. One of those three, so to speak in English “fat” three things, three major reforms that we have to implement, and here it is precisely this technical contract that we are discussing today is talking about how the Kingdom of Denmark, that is, its institutions and the persons in charge, will be able to help the Republic of Croatia. I would briefly refer to what was the content of this aid in recent years. Perhaps as one example, I too would dare say that our government has often used as an example of good help, foreign aid in the Republic of Croatia in that folk proverb “don’t give me fish but teach me fish. ” That's how they taught us fish through these Danish projects. I'll mention one of the projects there. It is called the alphabet of the European Union. It is a system through which members, therefore state officials working on the central and regional and local administration, learn about the policies of the European Union and its functioning. So, starting with the accession, pre-accession funds that are being received in the European Union membership to the various other policies that are important to us. Let me just say how important it is and what it really means. This means that several thousand such civil servants pass through that system annually. I think it is one of the figures that is impressive, which speaks and that really this project that we had as one of the first of Denmark was extremely important for Croatia and that it is not important to mention here that our state administration has been very effective and well used. It's the secretary of state, so I won't repeat how this technical assistance went in the next stages. She's a little dilated. Today, her biggest user is the Central State Administration Office. It's logical and good to have such an institution that deals with the really preparation of civil servants at various levels so that this assistance is in the first stage, and here as far as I know it is now about the sequel. So, on the second stage of this aid, it was from 2005 to 2007, and this contract why this, why now. In practice, it has been shown that it is good to really regulate all the conditions under which assistance is given. Well, then, that's what a fellow secretary of state will know very well, so that we wouldn't have to when there's a problem at customs somewhere else have to drag the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and say it, but you know we have a law in Denmark that can't be helped by giving another country can't be paid out of it, like customs or some other fees or fees that we might have. That's why this law is necessary. It regulates this issue in a similar way how the Framework Agreement to accept European Union assistance does so, so it defines what someone has rights to and which exceptions apply in order to make this all work very quickly. I won't last any longer. So it is an extremely important contract precisely because it serves to say so as one framework through which the Danish Government, the Kingdom of Denmark, will provide this assistance to Croatia in the next two or three years, I would dare to predict if this framework agreement does not have a period of duration and that is good, so in case Croatia and afterwards need such assistance and that our two governments will then agree that we want and need this assistance. I dare to predict that we will not need this, but it is good that such a framework exists because, as always now, a certain niche can be found in which Croatia and after that period, it may be necessary. Here is the conclusion, so this is about confirming this international act signed by the government. I don't think we in the Croatian Democratic Community have any doubts, it's an important act. He's going into this united reading, he's going through an emergency procedure. I think it is good that this agreement is confirmed, because actually this assistance for this last phase, or the second phase can be formally used from the beginning of this year and it is therefore quite important that this is actually going quickly now so that experts on one side and on the other can access the implementation of projects that are ongoing or new that are yet to be approved. This is why the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this bill and we will certainly vote on the next, when the time comes, that this contract is in the form it is proposed and accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6287	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6288	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club will support this proposal for a treaty validation law, nothing is disputed. But yet what I came forward for was just now said by counterpart Pejcinovic-Buric. Namely, Secretary of State, I expected you to be the one to present that information. We here have written a text that you briefly told us, but we lacked the data we've just heard. I will tell you that I was about to ask you, and I have heard now that it is actually about the donor's request, about Denmark which is just dictated by this form of agreement in order to free Denmark from paying customs duties, excise duties, VAT and administrative fees because so requires probably their legislation when providing assistance to a state. That is, even if this objection were to be made in connection with the point, i.e. Article 8 relating to the extremely extended rights of foreigners who would participate in these projects as well as exceptional I would say the privileges of foreign institutions that would also participate in these projects. What particularly bothered us is a sentence in the third article, I'll read it to you. Croatia will provide Denmark with all information on the use of funds provided by Denmark, and will allow representatives of Denmark to visit and check activities, as well as a review of assets, goods, records and documentation. This is especially interesting now, the last sentence. All information delivered must be treated with due secrecy. That's something that has to be disturbing for reasons because if we sitting here in these benches have no right to know that funds have been spent in the previous two phases of public administration reform and state service, then who should know. So I wanted to ask you to briefly tell us exactly what the funds were spent on in the first phase of 2000/2004. in the second phase of 2005 to 2007, which the ministries received these funds or services, how many people were trained, on which projects, programmes and what is planned in this third phase, as we now see the contract now being signed for the period 2008 to 2010. So I'm really asking you to come out in the future with information that is relevant that we can clearly tell those who have chosen us to represent them here, that we can clearly defend the exactly likely priorities that you have negotiated with the Danish government, I believe that you have had some influence on these priorities, because it is crucial to see how and in what direction exactly public administration reform is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6289	Thank you. Final Mr. Zeljko Kuprešak, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's just two or three sentences. As far as Article 3 is concerned, this is the usual procedure and practice for all bilateral aids that appear as Mrs Pejcinović-Buric said, of all the countries we get from. For example, Sweden also requires the procedural monitoring of the spending of the money obtained. This monitoring of the spending of money that we receive as bilateral aid goes through internal audits within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or through a state audit that is related to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also with the audit of the donor itself, means the Swedish fund that does so. I don't think it's there, maybe it's just been read wrong, or an interpretation that must be treated with due attention and secrecy, is it? Of course, such data that are at bilateral level cannot be so public, but in any case, regarding the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it will be available to all those who need such things and will know. As for the total funds spent so far, I ask you to give me time, I will deliver to you in writing all the funds we have received from Denmark so far. Also if you are interested in other bilateral aids such as Sweden which is very interesting about the projects we are working with, so is Norway. We have great relations with the Netherlands as well, so we'll deliver it to you in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6291	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Final draft law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the general conditions of Danish bilateral assistance to Croatia. It was also an emergency procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on the bill. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Here you go. I find that with 118 votes, nothing abstentions and one against most votes is passed this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6294	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. The Memorandum of Understanding of the Report of the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Media 2007 programme aims to ensure the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Media Programme and all its activities between 2007 and 2013, signed recently in Brussels on 17 March, signed by our Croatian Ambassador, Mr Baricevic. The signing of the Memorandum of Understanding opens, the signing of this Memorandum opens up the possibility of the full participation of Croatian directors, producers, screenwriters and other natural, legal persons engaged in audio-visual activities in the Media Programme, and the competition for financial resources provided by the European Commission through this Programme to support the production, promotion and distribution of European audio-visual programmes. During this period, the Media 2007 Programme will co-finance activities such as education and training of professionals, the development of production, individual and joint projects in the field of playable, creative-documentary, animation film, and the distribution of works in the field of cinematography and audio-visual programmes, the promotion of cinematography and audio-visual programmes and support for film festivals. Support for the development of individual, joint or interactive projects represents financial support to independent European production companies for the development of played, creative and documentary and animation films that are registered at a certain time prior to application for the project, one or three years, respectively. The second activity of the Media 2007 programme is distribution of works in the field of cinematography and audio-visual programmes, and when it comes to support for cinema networks, it involves financial support that favours the creation of a European cinema network operator, the presentation and promotion of European films, the development of educational and all other activities aimed at attracting young cinema visitors. Promotion of cinema and audio-visual programmes and support for film festivals is also one of the activities supported by the Media 2007 Programme. In this connection, the Media 2007 Programme supports all kinds of promotions, with a view to facilitating access and participation by European independent producers and distributors at key European and international events and promoting European work on important international fairs. Finally, it is important to note that the Media Programme can co-finance Croatian projects and activities involving at least one partner of the European Community Member States, with Croatia having to establish a media board in cooperation with the community and, of course, pay a certain financial contribution to the general budget of the European Union. Media desk has already been established as a department within the Croatian Audio-Visual Centre of Public Institution, which was recently established by the Law on Audio-Visual Activities with the purpose of performing audio-visual activities, and this law recently passed this High House. The media board's tasks are to promote and disseminate information on the Media Programme, provide a variety of advisory assistance to all those who want to participate in the Media 2007 Programme. It is very important that we enter this Programme, and it is important that we approach it, because we can also expect quality assistance from the European Community countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6295	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6296	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. On 3 April of this year, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Media 2007 Community Programme for the period from 2007 to 2013, with the Final Proposal for a Law. The Committee discussed the issue as a home working body, the opening statement was tabled by a proposing representative. Croatia will participate in the Media 2007 Programme in accordance with the conditions laid down in the Framework Agreement of 22 November 2004 between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the general principles of participation of Croatia in Community programmes, and in accordance with the objectives, criteria, procedures and deadlines set out in the decision of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 November 2006 on the application of the programme of support for the European audiovisual space Programme Media 2007. In order to ensure the dimension of the community of this programme, projects and activities will include at least one partner from the Member States of the community. Croatia will establish appropriate structures and mechanisms, we have heard some have already been set up at national level and will adopt all other necessary measures for national coordination and the organisation of activities for the implementation of this programme. For participation in the programme, Croatia will pay each year a financial contribution according to point 1. of Appendix 1, the first i.e. in the range of 127 thousand 333 euros in 2008 to 139 thousand 546 euros in 2013. Part of this financial contribution may be financed by the relevant Community instruments if Croatia so requests. In this case, pre-accession funding from EU funds will be set out in the financial memorandum on the annual programme on this aid. After the debate, the Committee unanimously concluded: the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Media Programme for the period 2007-2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6297	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6298	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister. Here is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community discussed the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Media 2007 Community programme. As the promoter said, our minister in the very introduction of this debate, this memorandum was signed just a few days ago. And we must really stress that the signing of this memo will enable the participation of Croatian producers, directors, screenwriters and all those involved in audiovisual activities to participate in this Media 2007 programme, as they can compete for the financial resources provided by the European Commission to support the production, promotion and distribution of European audiovisual programmes. This programme shall, of course, include support for film projections for the period from 2007 to 2013. This is primarily support for independent European production companies for the development of played, documentary and animation films. So, for the entire area of film culture. This programme can also finance the distribution of works in the field of audiovisual programmes and cinematography, which certainly includes supporting what is important for representatives, support for cinema networks, but also for television broadcasting of the film programme. In particular, there is a need to highlight the support that will enable and benefit from this programme, which relates to financial support that favours the creation of European cinema operators i.e. The promotion of European films and the support for education, the promotion that will create, so to speak, to create and attract young visitors to the cinema, because we know that it is becoming less and less regrettable and with us, it is becoming less and less visitors to the cinema performance. The Media 2007 programme also allows support for film festivals, which will enable European film, especially independent producers and distributors to participate in famous European film festivals or various events where film activities are presented. This is also important for Croatian cultural creation, because the programme will allow for the financing and co-financing of Croatian projects and activities that will include the participation of one of the European community members. So, in one joint cooperation, we can also get a new production in the future. It is important that the Republic of Croatia will also provide a financial contribution to the budget of the European Union, but if, and this mentions the memorandum here, if it comes to the fact that it cannot be done, that we cannot implement the financing of the relevant instruments in the community, there can be additional funding for this within the European Community, but then a new so-called ‘EU’ will be signed. a financial memorandum on this participation. Here is from everything the promoter has said and what is in this memorandum, certainly the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia in the Media 2007-2013 Community programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6299	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6300	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! I can say that I am pleased on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club today to say a few words about the support we are going to give to this bill, but I will not convince what the promoter has already written, because I think it can also say beyond that a lot of useful information that can actually provide a framework for understanding what the Media 2007 programme actually opens as a perspective among other things and Croatian cinematography, of course not only played but all forms of audiovisual activity which in all countries of Europe is actually suffering from pressure and commercialisation from Hollywood sources. The project, or the Media 2007 programme, is extremely valuable when we put it in the context of the legacy programme, which is Media 1, Media 2, Media plus and Media training, and when we draw the line that the effects of European efforts to co-finance efforts to preserve European cultural heritage that is promoted through film activity, then it should be said that the most important data is that in Europe every year three hundred films receive support from the Media project, that half of all European films that can be seen by viewers in Europe and the world are co-financed from Media's funds. Also, about 2 and a half million movie lovers each year see about 15 thousand shows as part of different film festivals thanks to the financial support of Media. Also, two-thirds of all projects that Media supports come from those countries where the level of film production is threatened or relatively poor, which is due to size, due to economic and other opportunities in those countries. The data also suggest that 9 out of 10 European films that even go beyond the borders of the home country are shown abroad also supported by this Media programme and that, in fact, it is in the last one, that the level rises as a percentage of the coverage of the European film market thanks to these funds in some cases and by 100% compared to the existing cake within that market. And it should be said that the accession of Croatia to this important programme can be of exceptional benefit if, of course, the founding of the Media Board also follows one additional effort not only from the Ministry of Culture but also in cooperation with professional associations dealing with audiovisual art in approaching procedural very important issues to those who intend to produce or already do so. I myself have a modest experience of participating in the production of a film as a post-writer, so I know how hard it is to get funds. Therefore, it is extremely important to provide all available data so that our screenwriters, producers, directors get to the technology that is being run by the "MEDIA 2007" programme. Let's not forget that we will import about 800,000 euros into it by 2013. So the first and the basic task is to achieve such a quality of our proposals and applications that we will get back at least two, three times that number we will enter. And if it's lucky it can be more and if it's of course quality because here I'll remind you this year in "MEDIA 2007" has a budget of 93m euros. The budget grows from year to year and will be 107m euros in 2013. So these are huge funds, and they are really in a disposition to everyone who participates in the production of European film. I will remind you of some very important film titles that have been produced in the last ten years that have received funds just from the project or from the programme framework Media, such as "Dogville" Lars Frontiere, "Eight Women" Francois Ozon, "Good Bye Lenin" Wolfgang Becker, "Life Is Beautiful" Robert Benigni, "Pianist" Michael Haneke, then "Volver" Pedro Almodovar. All of these are large names on the one hand directed and, on the other hand, large European or co-production achievements of the European film. In this regard, we will be happy to support these efforts and ask that we really work to be an active part of this programme as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6301	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6302	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the government, and distinguished colleagues here and colleagues. And we will certainly join this initiative's support but we will try to warn of some of the things that we think are particularly important because it is not enough just to say to approach "MEDIA 2007" but it is very important and we know how to use this international fund and this organization. Right away, I would like to correct what was heard in these previous exhibitions, and it was not quite clear in some way that there would be no confusion with the MPs or with everyone else, or with those who would do this. These funds are not related to the production of films although they have been said several times but exclusively to pre-production and post-production stages of films. And so, as the "MEDIA 2007" website says, it does not therefore refer to financing anything from production as such, that should be known. Production is something else, and this means that Croatia will pay out of hundreds and some thousands of euros is not nearly something that could be considered equivalently back as something important for the price of making the film itself. So that's 700 thousand kunas or something more, or a million kunas, and movies with us cost four, five, even more. We have to say we have a great Croatian film. He develops, he develops year after year. Today it includes seven, eight, even nine or more films a year, ten, and now some of these films also receive international awards. Some of us, so to speak, represent at festivals like this in Shanghai at the same time as a movie that we ourselves did not valorize it as well as it goes on at international festivals. These are the funds for something else. These are the means to join an organization that in some way wants to promote a Croatian film and does environmental work on the production of Croatian, European film so that the film, as said by colleagues Beus, can be offset in some way by the impact of a globalised American film and everything that this film means, is now not the subject of criticism but what is good to know that we are looking for an alternative that will actually be an alternative to what we are interested in art film, art film, home film and European film in some way. In this sense, what is important is that "MEDIA Desk" which will now be established or already established at the Croatian Audio-visual Centre is understood in a very active way. If you look at what is funded by "MEDIA 2007" then you can see that they actually finance what they call training and that means from writing techniques and beyond, what they call development and these are individual catalogues, some kind of casting for new authors, etc., what they mean by distribution and so are even commercial agents and it's actually an exhibition and production towards outside film, its promotion, etc. And the distribution of the film is 55% of the funds. So, it's not about funding film-making projects, it's about financing film placements, movie viewing and the whole base that's being created around the film. It is extremely important that "MEDIA Desk" which will be formed at the Croatian Audio-Visual Centre which has now formed and has not yet received results from it but we hope that it will be good results because it is therefore a relatively French institution to realize that the financing of the film and financing of Croatian film is related to many of the actions that are complicated and which actually provide the placement of the film. On behalf of the CNS, a colleague listed some films that I would have the same, I have about the same data and I almost wanted to mention them identically, but what we noticed was a colleague and I don't have any Croatian films in it and some of our films were and received awards. So this is a good initiative. This initiative is not what is thought to be, which is that through this initiative we will receive funds for the film but we get to say a ticket to a broader ecological science that reproduces, produces and in some ways exports and presents a European film so that some of these films were given "oscare" because they were supported and not only by the Ministry of Culture with resources that are always insignificant but also by one force behind a film, which is a European film. Therefore, it is not the support of this initiative but it is also the monitoring of the development and the initiative, and therefore the activities of the Ministry of Culture and all other subjective factors that "MEDIA Desk" is working and it will work most if it has a total base of all people who cooperate on the film to engage in these international flows and to say so they do not need to be opened doors, that they themselves know where the doors are to be used. What I would like to conclude is with one question because on these pages of Media, then, in 2007, it is mentioned that Croatia has become a new member of the MEDIA programme and so other than this agreement, which was already signed on 17 March 2008, all projects will be clearly evaluated. But that contracts, that contracts will not be signed until a certain number as the technical topics here say will not be resolved. So I am finishing this debate in which we will support the signing of this memorandum with a question of what are the technical issues that have not been resolved yet, which should be resolved in order to be able to sign the contracts. I hope we find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6303	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mrs. Susana Bilić Wardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6304	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Media 2007 Community Programme with the Final Proposal for the Law. It is very difficult now after the exhaustive opening statement he gave on behalf of the promoter of the culture minister, president of the parent committee on science, education and culture. From all these debates that were actually unanimous in support of this bill, something new to say. What I would like to stress in my debate is that I support the same as the representatives' clubs here have stated the adoption of this Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding, i.e. on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the MEDIA 2007 programme, for several reasons that colleagues also held in their discussions. But here, it should be recalled that the Ministry of Culture invested 132 million kuna in audio-visual activities in the past 2000 to 2003 and 138 million kuna in 2004 to 2007. Why am I saying this now that my predecessor has said that not everything here is a huge return on funds from these invested that Croatia will be giving as a member, to separate from the state budget every year. We said the amount of about a million kunas a year. However, I think that the benefit that the Republic of Croatia, not only of the Republic of Croatia, but also of those who create in the Republic of Croatia audio-visual works, will be much greater because they deserve it. So it's not always about money. There is something called, and culture is also part of an immaterial culture, so I think that Croatian producers, directors, producers and all those who, in recent years, have achieved the observed results and numerous awards at film festivals, as well as the increasing presence of Croatian film in European cinemas, and then the increasing interest of Croatian viewers for Croatian films in, or domestic films in, the same cinemas that they deserve, and that the benefits that the Republic of Croatia and the creators themselves will benefit from, through the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Media 2007 programme through the upcoming period for which the programme is scheduled by 2013 will have much greater than the budget of all these years. And here, so I don't have to go any longer. I think the task of the MEDIA Board that was founded, because that's how the Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, informed us, and that's what the Media pages say. Yes, it should be pointed out once again what my colleague Vujic said, and this is a significant role of the MEDIA Desk to work on the promotion and dissemination of information on the MEDIA programme, and provides a variety of, i.e. advisory assistance to all those who wish to participate in the MEDIA 2007 programme and to recommend to Mr. Minister and Director of the Croatian Audio-visual Centre that, if necessary, the number of employees. Because we have received information that only one employee is working, that the number of employees is here on this job within the framework of the MEDIA Board if necessary and possibly increasing. I'll support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6305	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6306	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Allow a few thoughts on this Bill proposal confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the MEDIA 2007 Community programme. - 2013. There is something else to point out here, although these were very encouraging discussions that Croatia is the first candidate country to join the European Union to join this programme. This is also the fact that this is an open two-way road, and also slightly wider than the European Union, because members are with 27 EU countries in the MEDIA and Switzerland programmes, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. Also, I want to say that the MEDIA program here we heard has its biggest assignment in distribution... works and audio-visual programs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But MEDIA is designed to preserve and improve European cultural diversity and its cinematographic and audio-visual heritage, to promote international dialogue, which is very important, to increase the flow of European audio-visual works both outside and within the European Union. It is this very cultural dimension that is very important today in understanding different, in understanding such a wide area of diversity as Europe, and of course this southeast part where Croatia clearly precedes so that this programme has its own fast... Thanks to the Ministry of Culture as we have seen it is already formed MEDIA Desk and is already starting within the Croatian Audio-visual Centre for Operationalization. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's most important about money. The whole programme I did a little research on for the period 2007 to 2013 to think about spending 750m euros at European Union level. So our share when you calculate our quotations is one percent. So there's a big chance. But what will it be spent on anyway? It is right that some who have debated said that distribution, so cinematographic achievement is 55% but in education, design, festival organisation, other money as well as in development will be spent in the promotion. Thus, the opportunity is great, so if we organize well, we will be able to take advantage of the quotation we pay far more for our benefit. In any case, I think that this is one programme that shows that Croatia is not late, but that it is well organised and realised its approach to the European Union and that I believe that it will succeed in other fields. So, with my support, I certainly congratulate this program on everyone who has achieved these results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6307	Thank you. And Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6308	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, distinguished fellow MPs. I have a special honour here today that I can, just after the day of the Croatian film, and this 17th in order to be completed in March, talk about the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia, on participation in the European Community programme MEDIA 2007. This Memorandum of Understanding, which Croatia joined the MEDIA Programme 2007, was signed in Brussels and as counterpart Šetic said earlier, the greater the success of Croatia as the first non-member country, so in the status of candidate country to first sign such a memorandum. The Croatian approach to this programme was made possible after the state made good progress in line with European legislation in the audio visual sector in the past term and by adopting the Law on Audio Visual Activity and as we have already heard from the establishment of a Croatian audio visual centre and board. By participating in this programme, therefore, Croatia has access to what we have already heard, a large budget of 755m euros for whose resources are being fought by film industries, a total of 32 European countries. It is important to point out that this is the fourth multi-annual successful programme under that name since 91 and so far almost 65% of the budget of this programme has been designed to promote and distribute films outside the countries of origin. As one of the exhibitors has already said, and I would like to reiterate that it would actually explain the importance of the adoption of this law for Croatian audio visual activity, so about 300 new film projects receive support from this programme annually, and the programme organises a hundred festivals annually with more than 15,000 projections that sees about 2.5 million people. How this programme enables domestic directors, screenwriters, producers, distributors and viewers to participate in competitions for the distribution of financial resources provided by the European Commission in support of European cinemas could be clearly said to Croatian film and European money. Croatian film like any other Croatian product, and not only culturally, is not exposed to the fiercest competition of the world's most powerful power, the world's film force of course. However, the great success of Croatian films at international film festivals is evident, and I am glad to hear it from representatives of all clubs today. But the question is, what about the film production in Croatia? They say that film art in Croatia has been developed in line with the development of our economy, and yet UNESCO classifies three groups of countries the size of film production by producing around 450 films annually in various languages, and as far as I'm aware Croatia belongs to countries with production up to 20 films per year, namely in the third group by the UNESCO classification with average production of four films per year, which are almost all financed by the state, it is therefore stated that the Ministry of Culture is one of the most important and most serious film producers. By entering this MEDIA Programme 2007. Croatia confirms its will to participate actively on the one hand in promoting the European audio visual industry and European cultural diversity. However, I believe that Croatia's participation will give an incentive for more active cooperation between the film industries of the EU member states and the Croatian film industry and will finally help Croatia promote and distribute its films far beyond its borders and will also reciprocally enable more works from the rest of Europe to find their audience in Croatia. I believe, of course, that this programme will also strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian audio visual sector through easier access to funding and will support the transition to digital technology in the development, distribution and promotion of audio visual works and through help to professional training of employees, which is very important to the film industry and through the cooperation of film schools, of course. We must not forget, of course, that the MEDIA Programme also financed the biggest European films such as the winner of the Oscar for Foreign Film "The Blamemakers"... The instructions are some other names of the movies, and I'm not going to name them now. [[You don't understand.]] However, a colleague from the SDP club said in his presentation that no Croatian film has ever received such support. Well, of course, we've never been involved, or participated to this program before. After the adoption of this Memorandum Confirmation Act, we can hope that new European hits financed through this programme will also be coming from Croatia soon. I will support this law without any doubt, because one thing is for sure, which is that a small but strong and competitive Croatian film production gets a strong development injection. As it grows and develops, it remains open. But one must not be forgotten. The parts of responsibility are borne by all, and so are we advocates by supporting this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6309	Thank you very much. And five minutes on behalf of the club, the SDP, Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6310	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. For the final debate on behalf of the SDP club, I will talk about some of the problems Croatia faces regarding community programmes since I have experience working on projects financed by the community programme. The benefits of these programmes are obvious to everyone, but there are certain problems that need to be highlighted above all, of course, the lack of information. The summers of our film industry will also not be if certain things in the system and way of thinking about community programmes in this country don't change. So first of all, there is a problem with the lack of information on the funds themselves and on the European Union’s financial instruments strategies. In the last session, we passed a law that made Croatia a beneficiary of the ASTPSP fund, if you remember, to support information technologies that are a financial instrument for achieving the objectives of the European Union strategy and 20 10. If we were to enter a regular Internet search engine 20 10, you would be thrown out in Croatian five, six websites with partial information, and it is a very important strategy that through advanced technologies wants to make life easier for the citizens of the European Union, eventually Croatia that is a member of that fund. That's another problem. In addition, contact points are issues. For some funds, these are national contact points, for... It's a cultural contact point, this is about a media board. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, the system of wages for these people needs to be evened out and there should be incentives for these very people who do a very difficult and responsible job. People working on EU projects, EU funds, with 6 months contracts for 3,000 kunas are not motivated. I don't know what kind of salary will be on the media board, I hope it'll be bigger, because if that's how they're unmotivated, the only thing left for them to do when they learn to do the job, they run off to private consulting houses that have been going on so far. And that's the problem that needs to be dealt with urgently, so the problem needs to be dealt with immediately. Furthermore, if we have such a system in which people are unmotivated, then the question is whether institutions that let's say so run, under quotes, within Croatia for these community programmes, whether they can work. Today, a co-worker for the SDP financial instrument, a colleague, told him exactly about the Civil Protection Instrument that he suspected that the job would be well done and these are the problems to be dealt with. Furthermore, the last one is a big problem. The information is slowly spreading, not enough, the funds are growing more and more, paves the way for a wild consulting market in Croatia. All of you who know how to work with EU projects, you know that in Croatia there are many domestic and international consulting houses, some of them excellent, some unfortunately are not, let them charge for writing projects with interest rates, for the project it takes 100,000 euros, ask 30 thousand euros to be given to them. And that is why, for the end, before we enter all 25 community programmes as announced, as we as SDP welcome and support, we need to solve these problems, increase wages by contact points, promote European strategies and what is most important to support the networking of our businesses. Companies are the most important. Networking for big projects, you probably all know, community programs can't get money if you don't have an international consortium with international partners. Networking that starts with what's called the so-called network. match making costs money and the state should be supported just say most of our entrepreneurs on match making, on networking for two reasons. The more projects we go from our private sector to Europe, the more they will be approved, the more we will overcome membership fees, and, of course, this will fill the state budget. And finally, I absolutely welcome that every community programme discusses as much in the Assembly as possible because we MPs must ultimately give an example to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6311	Thank you. And the ultimate minister of culture, Mr. Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6312	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. I thank all who participated in the debate, one very positive debate, and I am glad that the Croatian film has been talked about in this House of Higher Education in such a positive way. I'll just give you a few more information. When it comes to certain contact points, we in the ministry have excellent results when it comes to the contact point, we have, we have held more than 20 seminars all over Croatia, we direct people, of course we will do this with this Media programme as well, because we know that if we do not provide people with information that they will not actually be able to use, because it is true that we still find it difficult to manage in this great forest of various programmes, European programmes and about the possibilities where some money can be taken as well. I mean, it's mentioned that we're the first country to enter, but the prerequisite for that was a lot of harmonisation of the legislation that we did, but especially the Law on Electronic Media. It was very important, we had everything, actually all the good assumptions that we did, but the great thing we did thanks to this High House that we finally separated, the state no longer influences this way in the production of Croatian film as it has been so far, we actually just took it out under that hat to say and we created new opportunities for it thanks to this very law and when it comes to financing, especially when it comes to decision-making. It's very good and we produce 10 feature films that are like here and MP Vujic mentioned getting awards at many festivals around the world and I think the odds are really on our side. What is like the technical detail and which has been mentioned here, it is primarily this very day, or debate, or ratification of this document, that is one of the conditions. After that, the opening of competitions, the hiring of persons, and that is the way the European Community participates, which is how they give their opinion on the people we hire, but also, fortunately, finance with 50%, with 50% and salaries of those persons and even the functioning of this media board. So that's how I really want to mention that we're not in culture. It's the fact that we've invested two and a half times as much in the euro image. We've invested 400,000 euros, so far we've withdrawn about a million euros. I don't think we have to be afraid that wherever it is possible, we're going to make the most of it and withdraw whatever resources we can, and that's why I thank you all for the debate. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6313	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Final draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Media 2007 Community programme, 2007 - 2013. It's an emergency procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 117 for, 1 abstention and nothing against was accepted by most votes of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The law certifying an additional protocol with the Convention on Cybercrime on Incrimination of the acts of racist and xenophobic nature committed by computer systems shall ratify that additional protocol. The obligation to ratify an additional protocol with the Convention on Cybercrime, to incriminate acts of racist and xenophobic nature committed by computer systems, stems from Chapter XXIV. The negotiations – justice, freedom and security and are foreseen by the National Programme for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. That additional protocol extends and complements the Convention on Cybercrime, which the Republic of Croatia ratified and which took effect in relation to the Republic of Croatia on 1 July 2004. Most of the member states of the Council of Europe are parties to the additional protocol, and the Republic of Croatia signed an additional protocol on 26 March 2003. The Additional Protocol extends the area of the Convention on Cybercrime, and in relation to the incriminating part of the racist and xenophobic nature committed by computer systems, and aims to enable it to bring Member States' material criminal rights into line in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and to combat the propagation of racism and xenophobia through the Internet, as well as to enable international cooperation in this area. By confirming the additional protocol, the Republic of Croatia will join a round of countries that, under their legislation, seek to implement the specified purpose of the additional protocol in order to combat more effectively all forms of cybercrime, in the light of the provision of balance between freedom of expression and effective fight against racism and xenophobia. Compared to Croatian legislation, the confirmation of an additional protocol will require the addition of the criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia since certain criminal acts, the spread of racial and xenophobic material through computer systems, a threat motivated by racism and xenophobia, an insult motivated by the threat and xenophobia described in the additional protocol are not listed in the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia. We therefore propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Act on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6317	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6318	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State! The HNS generally takes the lead in supporting the approach managed by the Proposer by proposing a Law on the Confirmation of this Additional Protocol, as the Convention itself does not dispute the content of the Protocol. Moreover, we are witnessing that cyberspace becomes a space for various forms of unacceptable messages that are in many countries and criminalised, and come out of the frameworks set out in the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. However, what we do have is the wording in this text of the proposal announcing that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will express a reserve under which the provision of Article 1(3) of the Additional Protocol would apply to the Republic of Croatia only if it is about the spread of hate or violence, because otherwise we would be obliged to incriminate the spread of any racial and xenophobic material by means of a computer system. I heard an explanation that seemed to me completely excess, which is that some of this was actually already consumed by some of the provisions of the Penal Code, so that's the reason to express the reserve. This certainly can't be a reason for showing the reserve, because if you're doing something with your legislation in advance, then you're definitely in a much better position than anyone who accepts the protocol and has yet to implement it in their own legislation. So it's not and it can't be controversial. But if you put reserves in a way that will only incriminate the spread of hate or violence, and not other forms of xenophobic and racial or racist material, because one is racial material, the other is racist, then you open up a large space for a definition that will not be found in the amendments to the Penal Code and should actually be. Look what's in our cyberspace. See what some websites that propagate and totalitarian ideologies and regimes that have been declared criminal in the Nuremberg process and compare it with this, so you will actually see that this formula allows anyone to do what they want. And that only a direct call to commit violence and to express direct hatred in the future has to be criminalized. It's not respecting this protocol in the spirit that he's imagined. Therefore, I think that the protocol should also be accepted and that there should be no reserve in the amendments to the Penal Code, but that new incriminations should be well and cleverly formulated and discussed here in this House in order not to violate the limits of freedom, and on the other hand, to ensure that such incriminations, which the additional protocol and the convention itself already provides for, in itself, as something that European legislation must definitely be put into its criminal laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6319	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6320	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the introduction, of course, that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community gives full support and supports the Law on Confirming Additional Protocol with the Convention on Cybercrime, on Incrimination of the acts of racist and xenophobic nature committed through computer systems. I came up with my discussion on behalf of the club in a completely different way, but I'm going to start it just another way. Therefore, reading existing legal provisions relating to this topic, and encouraged by the presentation of an esteemed colleague on behalf of the HNS Club. So, racial and other discrimination is truly in our criminal and material legislation precisely and in the right way defined, so allow me to read the provision of Article 174(3), which explicitly reads: "Who in order to spread racial, religious, sexual, national, ethnic hatred or hatred based on the color of the skin or sexual commitment or other traits, or in order to disdain or carry out ideas of the supremacy or execution of one race, ethnic or religious community, sex, nation or idea of supremacy based on skin colour or disputed commitment or other traits will be punished by a prison of 3 months to 3 years." Also, paragraph 4: "Whoever, with the objective set out in paragraph 3 of this article, distributes or otherwise makes available to the public material to be denied, significantly reduces, approves or justifys a criminal offence", of course this applies to genocides and crimes against humanity "will be punished by fines or prisons from 3 months to 3 years.". However, it is very important to say in terms of support for this bill, too, or to specify several important international legal documents that actually form an international legal environment within which this law is created. Firstly, it should be stressed that the Republic of Croatia is a party to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Likewise, Protocol XII. which refers to the general prohibition of discrimination and, of course, the Convention on Cybercrime, which took effect on 1 July 2004, as we had the opportunity in the opening part of the State Secretary's hearing and which has so far been signed by 39 countries and ratified by 21 states. This Convention or this document has just created an international and legal basis for curbing the serious forms of criminal offences that we recognize under the common name so-called "the so-called ". cybercrime as a special form of illegal illegal treatment committed through the computer system. The essence, purpose and essence of this Convention, of this document may be summarised in two of the most important elements, the first to enable or address criminal prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences in relation to secrecy, integrity and the availability of computer data and systems, crimes related to the computer itself, criminal offences related to content and criminal offences related to copyright infringement and other related rights. The second element also very important, therefore, is not intended to address matters of material and legal nature only, but also to address procedural and very important issues, such as search issues, obtaining evidence, empowerment of regular authorities, extradition of perpetrators and obligations to mutual cooperation and assistance in the detection of perpetrators of these types of criminal offences. As regards the additional protocol itself, I think it is also necessary to highlight its basic purpose and, of course, its basic characteristics because the basic purpose of this additional protocol is to strengthen the common capacity of the states of signatories in the fight against racism and xenophobia and to combat their promotion by a computer system and the basic characteristic of it is to extend the part of the Convention itself in relation to the incrimination of acts of racist and xenophobic nature which have been committed on IT systems and to create basic preconditions to be written as a criminal act in national legislation, provided that it has been committed intentionally or unjustly and of course it is three types of crimes, three types of crimes provided for in this Protocol. So first of all, it's a threat that is motivated by racism and xenophobia. In another situation, it is an insult also motivated by racism and xenophobia. And of course denial, as part three of denial, significant reduction, approval or approval of genocide... crimes against humanity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important in this regard to stress that, of course, it is incriminating those situations that relate to helping and encouraging these crimes to take place. And not only is it necessary to highlight those provisions concerning these documents by looking at the whole of this problem I think it is necessary to further analyse the provisions of our criminal material rights in terms of institutions that bind to these institutes or supplement them. I've said something about it in the opening part, but the analysis itself shows that we have two situations. The first is described in article 89, which defines a hate crime and where it is not about a new crime, but about every crime committed against a person. I think it is very important here to emphasize it made for the person because of the color of the skin or sex, or sexual orientation, language, religion, political and other beliefs, national or social origin, property, birth, education, social status, age, status or other characteristics. The second situation provided for as a concrete offence in Article 147, I have already said in the opening part. In conclusion, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of this law and accepts it as a truly true international legal basis for the full harmonisation of material criminal law with the legal standards of the European Union, of course, in terms of and areas of illegal conduct or the conduct of criminal offences through a computer system with a clear stance or with a clearly expressed view to the fact that the crimes of racial and xenophobic nature are indeed a violation of human rights and that the permanent threat is not only to the rule of law but also to democratic stability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6321	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6322	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP certainly welcomes and supports the adoption of this law or ratification of the additional protocol. We think it's necessary to do that. It's a protocol that talks about preventing the spread of xenophobia and racism through computer systems. But let's first look at how he defines what racial and xenophobic material is. It is every written material, every picture or any other representation of ideas or theories that advocate, promote or promote hatred, discrimination or violence either against an individual or a group of individuals and are based on race, fear of skin, origin or national or ethnic origin and religion if it is used as a cause for any of these. The definition, as we can see, is quite broad and unfortunately in terms of this definition, we must conclude that Croatia has gone through its intense period of xenophobia and has actually been buried with such materials that this additional protocol requires to be incriminated and in the Penal Code. Probably the basis for such a phenomenon was in the war, in aggression against the Republic of Croatia, and this aggression itself was caused by nationalist hatred, ethnic intolerance. So, by racism and xenophobia in terms of this definition as indicated in this additional protocol. Xenophobia, therefore, and racism had the right to the public in Croatia, unfortunately. We must be pleased to say that today is not so special not in public political speech, or in media speech. But unfortunately not yet in that... in the world of the Internet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even today, however, we may encounter statements completely incomprehensible that an actress who was returned by the court was once taken away by a completely unwarranted freak. We detest such statements. They don't get public rights. They are broadcast in the media and they still do not come across that condemnation, the political condemnation of the public we would expect. But under this protocol, they will have to suffer criminal prosecution, not just a conviction. What is the situation in Croatia today? We are pleased to say that such phenomena are getting smaller and we hope that they will completely disappear and Mr Tomljanović has now quoted, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, our positive legislation, our Penal Code, which among other things incriminates, as he read and cyber-shaped the appearance of this. But go if you have a laptop open on the site “Black Legion” for example. It's all a lot of just that kind of content. I took it out today. That's not from a few years ago. It exists today in Croatian cyberspace. It's all a lot of splendor of Ustasha symbols, all a lot of these symbols and the grandeur of the uprising. All this is faith in God and in his chief. It's all for the chief and Christ against the communists and so on. Therefore, there is such content in cyberspace today. Which means that if it's already prescribed in the Penal Code as a criminal offence, then the State's Attorney's office doesn't do its job, that it's not being prosecuted, that such pages don't open up, and those who opened them up to be persecuted. So we may have laws but we don't apply them. And that's why it's good to accept this extra protocol, so that we can tighten the criminal legislation a little bit, because here it's said that some things will have to be introduced into criminal legislation that doesn't exist. But that, finally, all of us, and we here in the Parliament, especially the MPs, are making an effort to call both the state's attorney and all the competent state bodies, the Minister of the Interior, for example. Why doesn't the police investigate and file criminal charges if it's described as a criminal offence? What's the Home Secretary doing? Is he doing his job? Is he getting paid? He does. So why doesn't he do it when he already exists in the Penal Code or leave it to someone who will, if he won't. Now something about what my colleague Richembergh was saying. That's what we were talking about on the Media Committee. Indeed, some reserve is foreseen here, so the Croatian side will highlight one reserve in Article 3(1). Now, why the backup? We asked the secretary of state. He said it was at the request of the State's Attorney's Office because it's unnecessary since it already exists in our law, so now we're emphasising the reserve. There is no need to accept this article of this additional protocol when we already have it. It's completely illogical to me. I asked the secretary of state at a club meeting to have that opinion of the State's Attorney's office shared with all the MPs to see what it was really about. But I can see there's no material coming on the bench. Therefore, that opinion of the State Attorney's Office remains a mystery, remains a secret. Okay. But if that's what the State's Attorney's office says, then it's completely illogical. It's almost like someone's looking for a jersey walk, a protocol of some kind that you have to come into a dark suit, and you point out the objection and reserve to it because you're already wearing a dark suit. So, the thing is completely illogical. Why should we point out a reserve to something that already exists in our legislation? If that's the case, then someone doesn't know how to think logically, and I really wanted to know if it was true that the State's Attorney's office wrote such a nebulose. Because if it is, it is a nebulosis. We object that we will not accept something we already have. So why are we rebelling? Well, let's say we have that right. We accept. It's an integral part of this protocol and we're glad we already have it. Therefore, I stand out here on behalf of the SDP Reserve Club, according to the government's reserve when it comes to accepting this protocol. I'm afraid there's one intention behind it that this protocol isn't actually accepted in that spirit and in that letter as it is proposed here. There's another danger. Article 6, no danger, no, no, there is no danger there but we're going to have to change our behavior significantly and we're going to have to introduce this into criminal law. And this is Article 6 of denial and an important reduction, approval or justification of genocide or crimes against humanity. Namely, this protocol requires that this be incriminated every time it is recognised by the final binding decisions of the International Military Court established by the London Agreement on 8 April '45. So, what the court has declared genocide and crime or any international court established by appropriate international instruments and whose jurisdiction the party recognises, means in this case the Republic of Croatia. This applies to the Hague court. We often still have a phenomenon with us that this is exactly what is happening, denies, significantly diminishes or approves of what the Hague Court as the International Court of Justice, which has declared this state a criminal offence by either genocide, or xenophobia, any other act of international law. And finally, I would really like Mr. Secretary of State to have the materials coming to the Parliament examined. You here in Article 2 here writes about, says an individual or a group of individuals based on race, skin color, origin or national or ethical origin. First, it's clear that it's a tipfeller, because ethical origin doesn't mean anything, it needs to be written "ethnically" and it wouldn't be terrible if a tipfeller happened. But it's scary when on three pages it happens three times. You have this immediately on the next page, page 8, and page 9. Well, now can't you really look at the material that's being sent to the Parliament, so at least this sort of thing right, because it's also a relationship to this High Body. If you can send anything like that anyway, other than that, look, this will get you into the archives of the Parliament. This will enter the archives of the Parliament. One day people will laugh at you and ask you, so who let it into the House in this form and we'll ratify some kind of ethical origin now. We'll ratify that when we vote, unless the government amendment changes it at the last minute, because only then won't get you into Parliament archives and people laughing at you afterwards. But in spite of these objections and reservations against the government's reserves, the SDP club will vote to accept this protocol and to change our... law as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6323	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6324	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, we discussed this proposal for a protocol, and of course we find it extremely important for our Parliament to adopt it and be the basis for supplementing the law above all criminal law regarding sanctioning the crimes that we place in hate speech or putting into some forms of hate crime. And most of the participants in the debate, including myself and other representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, in whose name I am now speaking, agreed that the largest part of this proposal is in that which has come before the committees, and now it is actually acceptable here in the Assembly except for the part in which we are talking about the possibility of expressing a reservation for the application of Article 3(1) of this Protocol, which means that we will only sanction something which will be some kind of crime against members of different racial, ethnic groups or foreigners as we can take them in our society, and on the other hand, and which will directly call for the spread of hatred or the spread of violence. But there are all those other cases in which it falls within the thin line between spreading hatred, calling for violence and what someone will not qualify as calling for violence and spreading hate. And we are witnessing that in electronic communication, especially in a communication that is still not sufficiently understood as an area of public communication, nor is that understood enough by the participants themselves, or by the public enough, because we still understand the public as a classical citizen public rather than as a public established with the help of modern electronic cybernetic technologies in which in various types of forums, in different types of blogs as a new form of public with interpersonal characteristics, but it is also available to those who do not actively participate in it but can read it as they read the newspaper and can be included if they want to. We have different forms of private speech that contain elements of insult, hate speech and calls for violence. And for that reason I think it's enough to be here on any website, any of the daily newspapers, and you'll see, they'll testify in most texts that have anything to do with ethnic, religious, racial or other features that it's rare when you can read something that doesn't even contain these features that we're talking about. And we have, as Mr. Secretary of State assured us, provisions that sanction hate speech, we have provisions that sanction a crime of hate, but unfortunately we do not have adequate operational provisions that would allow judges, which would allow state authorities to do so, that is, to carry out sanctions in accordance with, say, here when Article 174 is said. Penal Code or Article 89 paragraph 36. The penal law of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, such general formulations still do not provide the legislator, and particularly to courts, judges an adequate foothold to do so. This protocol is an opportunity to do so and therefore I think it would also be a proposal from the SDSS Club and I hope that we would also have enough space to remove this reserve around Article 3(1) to the second reading and if that reserve were removed, I think that we would have enough space to then have these provisions to which the legislator is called that in that case there may be room for those in the operational sense of those words to be implemented. Otherwise, they can agree with counterpart Stazic when he said that in the sphere of public speech and those who publicly communicate as visible persons in the classical type of political and civil society the state of the culture of speech is far above what was five or ten years ago. However, when it comes to this particular cyber-communication, there is a situation, late for this situation in about five or ten years. And there's really a need to make some kind of change. Whether it's our specifics or not, I can't confirm it. I can only speak on the basis of the characteristics of that speech, because it is related to our political context, or it is also characteristic of all kinds of communication in this public sphere. But one thing is quite certain, given our experience, given our burden, given our efforts to take care of interethnic, interpolitical, therefore it is not just ethnic, it is of course very often both political, idea and religious and each other. And in that sense, I think, Mr. Secretary of State, that this reserve should be removed and that the Government should refer this protocol in the next reading without that restriction and without that reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6325	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6326	A fellow Pupovci! I'm afraid I have to correct you. There's no other reading. This law is passed by a colleague of the Pupovac by emergency procedure. There's no other reading, and there's no way the government can fix it until the second reading. We have the only option for the Government to intervene with the amendment until the vote or for the conclusion of this debate, which will come very quickly, we intervene with the amendment. Personally, I think that if, in order for the SDP club to do so, it would be doomed already by the fact that the SDP club is doing so, but I call you as a coalition partner to whom the government may have more respect than we do, to do so, or simply to call the government and then to make it its amendment, because this reserve really represents a reserve to vote this way at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6327	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6328	Thank you, Mr. President. This item of the agenda is a good opportunity to draw attention to what the predecessors have also warned about, in fact, to repeat once again the reasons why the Council of Europe has adopted this additional protocol because this is an additional protocol at the Convention on Cybercrime, and now these acts are, in particular, reminded of it. So, the Council of Europe reminds that all people are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They remind that acts of racial and xenophobic nature constitute a violation of human rights and threaten the rule of law and democratic stability. They also remind us, of course, of what is, computer systems are aware that computer systems offer so far-seen ways to facilitate freedom, expression and communication in the world. They acknowledge that freedom of expression is one of the main foundations of democratic society. And they are aware of the need to ensure a proper balance between freedom of expression and effective fight against part of racial and xenophobic nature. So, in some ways, it's trying to find a good balance between expression rights, freedom of speech, and the Internet is, in any case, we, I don't want to discriminate on someone for years now, but the fact that the younger population is more used on the Internet is, in a way, a younger population and it's regained consciousness and a habit of serving the Internet for a much more free expression. On the other hand, however, the Internet is becoming more and more exclusive not only in a way but becomes very accessible to everyone and in a way replaces both daily newspapers and television and radio in learning the news, information, etc. Besides, preparing for this debate, looking for a definition of xenophobia, I used myself as Wikipedia, so I'm in a few languages, because it allows us... which defines xenophobia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that as Mr. Stazic mentioned, such speech and was, we can say quite present in Croatia and in other surrounding countries whose television programs we could follow because of the similar language, the fact that it was present and that in some way in a generation in its growing up it became quite a common way of speaking, so that awareness of how devastating can be the consequences of such speech and expression should be spread from kindergarten to school, because today we are witnessing sad scenes according to certain, concerts of certain singers on, just the youngest bear the characteristics and markings of some regimes that have never been there again, and not today. Therefore, this reserve present should not be a reserve. In any case, it would be good to remove all possible holes in the law that some experienced lawyers can find. For example, was the crime committed if it was committed on a server outside Croatia because the Internet medium is available worldwide? Does it apply only to Croatian citizens or those who can make such material available to Croatian citizens? Therefore, it takes a very long time to write such a law that would regulate this and there should not be a reserve there. The question is, how do you control it? We once had a minister of the interior who here for a benign video clip used a server or boasted that he was using a server, so when, of course, the Internet community caught him breaking more laws, then he retreated but the famous name "Yubito" remained. But here, today we have an answer to the representative's question by a colleague, Maria Lugaric, where the interior minister has informed us of the following. Therefore, that action was taken by police officers aimed at identifying the person and which, under the nickname of both the team and the team on the website, published texts. All measures and actions taken for this purpose including the identification of an IP address have been taken in a legitimate manner in accordance with police powers. He then says, the creator of this blog and the blog has been found to have published over 100 posts, 33 of which he published at work hours. So it's possible to see when and where. Measures have also been taken to verify the use of data contained in the records. So it's said that he was working on it, whether during working hours, whether he was using a computer at work, etc. Thus, it is possible to explore all these items. If for this kind of benign thing where there was certainly no use of these xenophobic expressions, but for the daily political purposes at local level. If the police could then act, then they may also be able to act on some of the comments Mr. Pupovac mentioned on the daily news portals, for example, on forums that are open and I think it is necessary in any case to prescribe that such portals must, for example, necessarily seek registration of those who can use it, so if they don't delete that post themselves, someone who in such a way criminally, in such a way extends their hatred can report it to the police with his e-mail, so it's much easier to discover than this gentleman who was being treated by the police. Also, since we are aware that there has been a lot of such expressions before, but that they can be found today in rare cases, it is not uncommon for people who are recognized in the general public to be guests again on public television, then if they have not already apologized, perhaps in that case they could at least put what was banned for younger than a certain number of years or simply react to such facts. The most famous is one singer, whom I will not advertise, but who has never fenced or apologized for the song he sang, which apparently had an xenophobic note, not to say something even worse spreading hate, but today you can also see it on public television reminding you of that episode. Therefore, there is always a need to spread awareness of this harmfulness, and it is necessary that we all have a sense and zero tolerance to do so and I am not in any way right, let alone a real reserve under this protocol. I suggest that the protocol be fully accepted and Article 4 of this Reserve Act deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6329	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6330	It's not about what the police can or can't do, it's about what she wants or won't do. The police can and want to find out who, when, at what time, the computer wrote on its blog something negative about HDZ mayor, but it can and will not investigate who keeps the site black legion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6331	Answer, Mr. Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6332	Comrade Stazic, we're talking about two things. One is the awareness of society and the sensitivity of society and the condemnation of society to such advances. That's a bigger problem right now. What's a minor problem is in any case the police, as soon as the police can, then I just need to change the authorities so that they will, it's a minor problem and it's being solved in the short term, these things are being resolved from the smallest days since education, from school, from kindergarten, and I invite all my colleagues to participate in some way in the proper growth and education of our youngest who, in any case, in five years' time will be the most information, we'll all receive them from the Internet, and as far as the police are concerned, here I believe that now will wish when we pass this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6333	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6334	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When Croatia signed the Convention on Cybercrime in 2001 and already in October 2002, the Croatian Parliament confirmed the Convention, I must point out that Croatia was one of the first countries to do so. Immediately thereafter, following the signing, or ratification of the Convention, the obligations laid down in this Convention, i.e. Amendment to the Penal Code. So in that famous novel in 2003, we incriminate and better marked racial and other discrimination, and already in paragraph 4 of the same article, so that it is a particularly dangerous crime if it is done by means of a computer system. Of course, as you all know, after 2003, this novel was abolished with far-reaching consequences and today because we have been supplementing this Penal Code to war, and only the following year have we had this incrimination. But let's let it go. Here is now before us this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol, but as Croatia intends, as my colleagues have said before me to express the reserve exactly according to the most important provision, which is the spread of racial and xenophobic material using a computer system, we wonder why even signing this additional protocol? And why am I setting this up like this? Given that you know little about our case-law, but not only the practice of the body of persecution, which is what fellow Stazic was now talking about and not only in the name of the club, but also in replication, he particularly pointed out exactly our problem, not so much in inadequate and still incomplete normative as still unprovoked with one absolute will and determination to get rid of these things. It is not enough just from time to time, which is certainly commendable to congratulate Christmas, let us say the words Christo is born. But you see today, here's a month ago, 20 days ago in Zadar, he's running to kill himself, kill a Serb, and no one's responding. No one thinks he's responding. And you know what else is going on? Young men dress up in black uniforms, put on a neat hat with the letter "U" I guess thinking it's, I guess, thinking it's some kind of folk costume. And no one's responding to that, no one's alive to that. I'll see you later. ... And why do you think of five-pointers all the time? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're obsessed with a five-pointer. There's no five-pointer in your head. Now let go of the five-pointers. And you see, this particular causal link that is necessary, and that needs to be achieved by applying, by absolute application of that provision in Article 3, would be questionable. You know, from time to time, these kinds of things appear that devoid our public, and then the government is pressuring the public and reacting, and so did our Prime Minister Sanader in the summer of 2006, at the 7th month when he said that we needed this criminal act, I ordered the Ministry of Justice to choose to prepare the incrimination that we had in our Penal Code, the excelling of fascist and totalitarian systems, however, both then and now. It's happening again, it hasn't happened yet. And in this article 6, which is said to say that denial is a significant downsizing, approval or... genocide or crimes against humanity is something that must be found in our incriminations, it also has a German crime one and the other, and a very rigorous punishment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, to determine one reserve according to the provisions of Article 3 will practically have a dead letter on paper. Croatia does not need this, Croatia has decided in its direction towards Europe we do not need to be afraid and I think that this is, after all, open and verbalised by the Government. According to that, why these reserves. I think he'll be watching us with a little bit of backup then. We don't need that. Bravely in this application of this Protocol, or attesting to the law confirming the additional protocol of this Convention, and then you will have our absolute and our support and resolution. I mean, here's a little more government, or a government official, to tell and report on this government. I think there'd be some damage after all. We've been watching each other especially. What's this for? At least we don't have to tighten the rope on these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6335	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6336	Here, you mentioned Zadar and mentioned the highlight of these symbols. So this is actually an example of how, at some point, the Internet could act positively, so with all sorts of negative things that these people who are celebrating the state 41 to 45 used the Internet in Zadar, then they certainly wouldn't be doing it in Zadar because at the time that part of Croatia was cut off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6337	Thank you very much. Just one sentence. Our problem is to reduce one and increase the other and vice versa. That's our main problem. When we get rid of that problem, everything will be fine. Final Mr. Secretary of State Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6338	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I thank everyone who participated in this debate. And what I'm not questioning is that I don't think this protocol has been asked, that it really needs to be brought in. What was the only question asked was a certain reserve according to this reserve listed inside. What's the reserve for? The reserve is provided for in Article 3 of the Protocol itself. Already, as Honorable fellow Stazic read in his opening presentation, the definition of racial and xenophobic material in Article 2, he himself claimed that it was a very broad and very extensive definition. In accordance with the initiative of our State Attorney's Office, in order to make good use of the possibility provided for in Article 3(2) of this Protocol, which states that the Party may reserve the right not to require criminal liability for conduct laid down in the provisions of paragraph 1 if the material referred to in Article 2(1) advocates, promotes or promotes discrimination that is not related to hate or violence if other effective legal remedies exist. That's the point. There are certain materials. It's not every joke, it's not every joke, it's not every cartoon, it's not every critical inscription, it's not every essay, it's not every content that can have and contain certain elements of discrimination, but it shouldn't be a criminal zone. And this reserve allows us the following, which means when we are as a result of the adoption of this law on the validation of this additional protocol, when we change the Penal Code and introduce new incriminations that we do not have to bring everything into the criminal zone but that we can take care of this one fine fine line between what is allowed and between what is not allowed, between what cartoons and not calling for hate, does not call for violence, between some content that is critical and does not call for violence, and that is why this reserve is. I'm usually today, because I have to admit when I read this text and it seemed a little bit to me at first, which is why we now have a backup. We don't really have a reserve, and we don't want to pull what the hand brake says at any point in this fight against discrimination. We want to be uncompromising and we want to go all the way. However, this reserve is of a technical nature, meaning not every cartoon, not every text, not every joke and joke in the criminal zone. So it's not all that should be criminally incriminating. We have within our criminal system Article 174 provided for a certain criminal offence that does not cover all of what this Protocol requires. That's why we're going to change the Penal Code and we're going to build new incriminations. We also have certain incriminations that do not cover enough under the Law on Public Order and Peace. I've been talking to the State's Attorney's Office today, in that particular way, to reevaluate that reserve again whether or not to keep the reservation. And yet they insist it's a technical question. As far as I'm concerned, I really don't have any reservations about it if it was an amendment from any club, and so I think it might be a good thing here's a working group that's been working on this, that once before the vote is found, and possibly what the SDP club is and suggested that, possibly, if necessary, if there are conditions to see about that reserve. But what I'm saying is, it's not even in our mind that we want to actually have some kind of compromise in the fight against the meaning of incrimination and against these discriminations related to racism, related to xenophobia. Here, Mr. President, I thank everyone again for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-04-23-0.u6339	And I'd add that if you can't agree to it by Friday or consider it in detail one more time and evaluate it in order to say that fine word, then we don't have to if you don't make it through Friday and we don't even have to vote on this bill on Friday, we can next week when you can ensure that we clear it up because this is still a very sensitive thing and I think it's looking for a re-examination and see how best to solve it. Here, that's my opinion. I'm closing the debate. So we'll vote when there's a condition. And tomorrow we'll continue at 9.30 p.m. with agenda number 7. Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, P.Z.E. No. 30. The final draft law confirming the additional Protocol on the Convention on Cybercrime, etc. We delay as we have announced for possible compliance and acceptance of the objections, possible acceptance of the objections, and we will leave it for the next time.
