ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1157	We're going to the tenth item of the agenda. Ten. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 2 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in determining the agenda we accepted urgency. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? He does. Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1158	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I will try to convince you here to accept the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Officials with the Final Proposal of the Law, because it is necessary to continue the reform of the state administration as a strategic area of importance in order to modernise, professionalise, depolitisation and of course greater efficiency because these are the problems facing entrepreneurship, but also citizens on a daily basis. I'll try, given that here it is today Friday really shortened the reasoning of this law because you've seen it. Namely, the creation of this proposal came from looking at the experience of the Croatian state administration that led to the need to legislate certain areas, and in particular to introduce those provisions in the law, the protection of certain rights, areas that have not been covered by the law so far, so you noticed that, apart from me, it seems to me that there are strong anti-corruption elements here for the first time and protection of “squeezers” and protection from mobbing and there are ten, additions and amendments to the ten articles of the existing Law on Civil Servants. I think we can say that a consensus has been reached between citizens and politics and awareness of the need to combat corruption as one of the priorities of the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely in order to combat corruption more effectively in the state administration that the bill prescribes appropriate measures against civil servants who commit acts with the characteristics of corruption, as well as protection for those civil servants who report to responsible persons and competent state authorities about suspicion of corruption or as we call them popularly “whispers” who have, unfortunately, not been in the law so far. So far, we have had cases of “whispers” admitting courage, congratulating them, however, that they usually ended up on the street. These amendments and additions also extend the circle of criminal offences that would pose obstacles first to the admission to the state service, but also the reason for the termination of the state service under the law if the official is legally convicted of any of these offences. So you can see in Article 2 which are acts against life and body, against the freedom and rights of man and citizen, against the values protected by international law, against sexual freedom and sexual law, against marriage, against family and youth, against property, against the security of legal traffic and business, against justice, against the credibility of documents, against the public order, against official duty unless the rehabilitation has certainly taken place under special law. And as you can see, the first time they've been here is under the undesirables of a completely clearly classified and family bully. Mandatory distances from the service of an officer against whom an appropriate criminal offence or serious violation of official duty with the characteristics of corruption is initiated shall also be prescribed. As you know, most of the time, it's been waiting for the process to end, so it could have been months or even years. However, what is also important is a provision to protect civil servants from false reporting that abuse of the obligation of a civil servant to report a legitimate suspicion of corruption constitutes a serious violation of official duty. In order to effectively achieve the protection of whistles, a new serious violation of official duty shall also be prescribed in the event of the restriction or denial of the rights laid down by this law to the official who declares corruption or the abuse of such an official. The President of the Committee on State Service proposes that the conditions of the judicial examination be deleted because it is a civil servant with a state-owned expert examination covering the material regulations of official law and the General Administrative Procedure Act which is currently applicable at the workplace. This bill also specifies that the government appoints and resolves state officials, and in which cases the Government will resolve them. These are cases if it does not manage the state body well, i.e. the establishment unit, if it has been brought against it for a serious violation of official duty and if its work and effect has been assessed by an assessment less than the "good" assessment. I have to tell you, this is exactly what this supplement has come up with with the relevant unions. The dismissed managing officer will remain in the state service where he will only be deployed to another post in a state body for which he meets the conditions and, if he does not have a suitable job, provisions will apply to which the official will be made available to the Government. In view of the fact that Article 151 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has The civil servants' law stipulates that within 60 days of the date of entry into office of the Government following the parliamentary elections a public invitation to tender for appointment to the posts of the secretary of the ministry, director of the ministry, these have so far been the assistant ministers, Deputy Secretary of Government, Head of the Government's Office, Deputy State Secretary of State of State and Deputy and Assistant Director of State Administration's Office's assistants, these public procurements for the appointment of management officials should also be established by the Deputy Secretary of State of State and by the Deputy and Assistant Director of State Administration. This will, of course, be a temporary solution during this transitional period until the full payment arrangements in the State Service are governed by a special law governing the salaries of these civil servants. The conditions for appointment should also be laid down, i.e. the schedule for those posts. This is governed by the Regulation on the classification of jobs in the state service as well as for all other civil servants, while for the coefficients and for the calculation of wages, the Law on civil servants should be regulated, as the current coefficients of these jobs, while in the positions of state officials, have passed the range of coefficients prescribed for civil servants. Since the salaries of those officials wish to be maintained at the existing level, for these officials, it is proposed to exclude the application of a collective contract provision to civil servants and to subsistences on increasing the coefficient of complexity of jobs, employment in government bodies. Here is the need to address this issue, and as an effective fight against corruption as the particularly justified state reasons, it has led us to propose this law by emergency procedure. As for the financial part, you could read it, we believe that there is no need to provide additional funding in the state budget even for salaries, because for the salaries of management officials appointed to jobs, who were before the government's post after the parliamentary elections were held, they are proposed to be at the height of the salaries that these persons had as state officials. Here we hope that these proposed amendments to the law will come to your approval because of the fundamental tendency of the promoters of this proposal, so to protect the rights of civil servants in the fight against corruption, professionalisation, depolitisation of the state administration, which means its greater quality and efficiency in performing administrative tasks. Thank you very much, and we have reviewed the amendments sent by the committees, and we think that we can accept them mostly, but we will vote on that at the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1159	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Correction? Here, we haven't seen it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1160	Your Honorable Mr. President, it is incorrect that the Vice-President of the Government has argued that this is an example of a strong anti-corruption law and that it provides for the protection of whistles. That's just not true. First of all, here's only one example of why it's not true. If it is possible for state officials to become officials and subsistence officers as a parliamentary representative now automatically without a public tender, and violates the whole order of salaries of civil servants and subsistence officers. For example, if the secretary in any committee has a coefficient of 2.5 and here it also allows the deputy secretary of the DIP to have a coefficient of 3,68 which was not even previously a state official, then what can we say about it. Therefore, there is no saying that it is anti-corruption law but that it is precisely about allowing in the system of people loyal to the authorities that it is one thing and cannot be talked about the protection of whistles because every person who reports suspicion of corruption unless it is proved later clearly stems from the provision of Article 14a. It will be sanctioned, or such a declaration will make it difficult to abuse obligations and who will then dare to report suspicion of corruption. No one.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1161	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1162	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Adlesic said she would try to convince us to accept the proposed changes and additions. As for representatives of the Croatian People's Party, this opening argument failed to convince us that they could vote for the proposed amendments to the law. The law is presented as a strong anti-corruption law, but when it is fully analysed then it will be seen that it is not. But what is not an integral part of the law, and I want to say at first anyway, I believe I will never have to make this remark again. The government, in particular the Vice-President of the past few months, has also strongly stressed social dialogue, the need for social dialogue and the importance of the Economic and Social Council. First, I want to believe that this law was the subject of discussion on the Economic and Social Council, so I want to believe that it was and that there is some conclusion there on this proposed law. And I also know that the Economic and Social Council has concluded in the light of all the laws under discussion on the Economic and Social Council, the Proposer, so the Government must give the position of the Economic and Social Council in the light of the law. And today, in Mrs Adlesic's oral explanation, it is not mentioned whether this law is discussed with the trade unions to which it applies. I believe, therefore, that we will never get the bill again without the position of the Economic Social Council being written in the light of the law. As regards anti-corruption moves in the proposed Article 1 or 14a. The law has gone well and it is prescribed that if a civil servant legitimately suspects the act of corruption that he has the right to report to people or to competent state authorities. And that would be good if there was no point 4 of that same article, which says, abuse of a civil servant's obligation to report a legitimate suspicion of corruption is a serious violation of official duty. For a serious violation of the official duty under the law, among other things under Article 110, a measure of termination of the state service and fines and any other measures envisaged may also be imposed. Who, and by what criteria, assesses whether a civil servant has misused the right or obligation to report a legitimate suspicion of corruption? Let's assume that the state's official filed a complaint with the state's attorney against his corruption chief. The state's attorney's office has assessed that there are elements of reasonable doubt, initiated the investigations, completed and decided to file a lawsuit with the court. He's going to court. The Court's first-degree ruling is such that corruption has been found to be a criminal offence. The second degree, however, can be different. After four, five years, it will be stated, therefore, that if, in the second-degree procedure, one who has declared corruption is released of any responsibility, that the official who has filed the application has misused power. Or the obligation to report. What does abuse mean? When is she being determined? At what point? Who proves abuse and what evidence? A state official in the best sense can be convinced that it is corruption. It shall submit an application to the competent authority. There is an investigation and the competent national authority also agrees with the application. However, there is a different decision in the course of the judicial proceedings. It is an abuse of the obligation of officials to report part of the corruption. This is the provision of Article 14a. It's extremely dangerous and there won't be any anti-corruption measures. Furthermore, our second reason why we cannot accept this is contained in Article 7 of the proposed amendments and additions, which provide that the civil servant should be bound to impose the sentence of termination of the state service referred to in paragraph 2 in the case or in the case of a mark, in the acts of corruption. And that would also be fine, and it's explained that official courts, they're called, usually don't apply a stop-of-state measure, so they want to increase that pressure when it comes to corruption. And that might be okay if there was no other provision, which is Article 2 of the amendment and the amendment that stipulates that a citizen of the Republic of Croatia against whom a criminal act is being conducted or convicted of a criminal offence against life and body, the freedom of man, against the Republic of Croatia, values protected by international law, sexual freedom and sexual prodigy, marriage, family, youth, property, legal traffic security, justice, veracity of a document, public order or official duty, so those against whom such criminal proceedings are being conducted, or convicted of criminal acts that are being mentioned here, they cannot even be admitted to the state service. But a state official who is already in the service, who commits one of these crimes, is not required to stop his service. I welcome the proposer's intention to be an obstacle to state service for these offences provided for in Article 2. But then we argue that those who are already in the state service and have committed one of these crimes, that they are given a mandatory measure of termination of the state service, so that all citizens are the same before the law. The third reason is Article 151a. In which you imagine, temporary salary accounting coefficients are being introduced, those who until yesterday were state officials and enjoyed all the privileges of that status, and now they are civil servants, and not who are not applying a collective contract to the state service, by the way, I don't know why they are civil servants. But by emergency procedure, the government proposes to them the coefficients they had when they were also state officials. Probably this article is the reason why we don't know what the parent union thinks about these amendments and the additions to the laws, because it's a precedent that we're turning someone from a state official into a civil servant into a collective contract, but the law leaves the same salary and over-indebtedness as if he's a state official. And final. The reasons why an emergency procedure is needed because of the competition and in order to achieve the deadlines prescribed by the Law on the handover of the authorities are also not acceptable, because it has been publicly spoken by the trade union, says a certain part, I will not say much or greater, but a certain part of the former state officials, the assistant ministers turned into state officials, detained in the state service without these public tenders, using the 2006 Government Regulation of the Republic of Croatia, with an amendment in 2007, according to which no competition must be made but may be an internal ad within the state service, an internal ad which has obviously been applied and this past two months. And I recall the fact that it is already known to the public that people are being admitted to the state service in the seventh department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and are being moved to other state services and to the intelligence services, and that these two categories are being released from the mandatory public competition when they are admitted to the state service. So it's a classic example of law enforcement where it's being admitted to the state service under the auspices of the seventh department of the foreign ministry, intelligence. On the same day, these people are forwarded through the regulation to other public service bodies. These changes are offered not to prevent, not to correct such a situation but to the privileges we spoke of that would happen when the Parliament adopted the Law on the Handover of Governments practically the tenth. One too many former state officials have been translated into civil servants but a special status because instead of a collective contract and all the regulations relating to current civil servants, we make extra wages to them by law. These are four reasons why the Deputy Prime Minister failed to convince us that we should vote in favour of these amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1163	Vice President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I have no intention of polluting with MPs, but I just want to say some information that might help further debate. In fact, it is not true that the competitions are not being debated by my colleague Ingrid, they are already being called for some ministries you can see them. For now, it's the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The competitions are already in the process and the law is discussed with the unions. They are, and I said so in my opening statement, but it is possible that we may not be heard well any time regardless of the reasons, and they have made some comments and suggestions that are included in this law and I must say really good suggestions. In the case of abuse of a civil servant's obligation, we know that the court does so, whether it is or not, of a third or senior court. So it's not about any interpretations or politicizations. And this is what my colleague Lesar said at the end of the state service where he said that if one of them was committed because of the same misdemeanor or punishment, they couldn't be admitted to what happened to those who did it. You have a perfectly clear explanation in the law under Article 137 when a state service ceases under the law, and that's exactly what you are proposing now, colleague Lesar. But if that's not the case, and I'm wrong, which is quite possible, I'm asking you to propose amendments that we're going to consider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1165	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1166	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, with a final draft of the law. One of the key conditions in curbing corruption is to successfully curb corruption in the state administration. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants creates strong legal assumptions for success in countering corruption in the state administration in such a way as to first provide protection for so-called whistles or civil servants who report corruption from possible discrimination, which will certainly encourage civil servants to report any corruption cases for which they have legitimate doubts. At the same time, the proposal to amend the law prevents possible skill hunting in such a way as to falsely report a civil servant is a serious violation of official duty to prevent possible manipulation of this legal provision. Secondly, the provisions of the amendment of the law tighten obstacles to the admission of the state service in such a way as to more precisely define or determine a wider circle of criminal offences whose initiation is an obstacle to the admission of the state service. At the same time, it provides for a mandatory distance from the civil servant’s service against whom the appropriate procedure for the offence or serious violation of official duty with the characteristics of corruption and the mandatory sentence of termination of the civil service in the event of the declaration of officials responsible for the act of corruption. It is also corrected by the error and failure of Article 49 where, due to the absence of the impediment to admission to the State service, the sentence of at least two years in prison led to absurdity that the obstacle to admission to the State service was not, for example, the counterfeiting of the official document. So, in addition to the legal assumptions that allow the bill to be amended, it is at the same time an expression of firm political will and determination to deal with the problem of corruption in the state administration vigorously and successfully tackled and to give tangible results in the short term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1167	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1168	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Building a rule of law and systems in the rule of law are conditions for the development of democratic relations in a society. See if it's possible with the law that's working out the collapse of the system and in an explanation it says that past the system it will arrange one of the most important things for officials outside the current system of pay to officials. It is a real motive for this law to come by emergency procedure here before us to bring down the laws that we passed last year in order to reduce the number of civil servants and build stability of the official position by a trick in front of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Is the stability of the official position stronger if there are privileged officials and less privileged officials? What is the message to non-privileged civil servants, whom the government does not worry about getting paid at the level it now offers to its former state officials? As much as the Government proposes and extends the circle, the number, the circle of persons who, by special law, will even transfer their responsibility to us to determine the coefficients beyond the pay system of civil servants. That's the meaning of this law. Such a proposal is underestimation of the Croatian Parliament. In the last term, we have passed the Law on the handover of authorities, on the reduction of the number of officials, and now the Government is offering us an exception, to place these officials in special procedures and to keep the salary they had before. Well, it's a schizophrenic situation. As for the intention of telling us that the reason for the adoption of this Act is to fight corruption, there are mine and our views of the two. It's schizophrenic again. For one reason, my colleague Lesar spoke. It seems that the matter is sharpened, and then, as counterpart Lesar stated, in Article 1 or Article 14.a. in the last paragraph, it sends a message, do not play, do not log in because it might be fatal for you. At the same time as Article 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The bill's proposal, in respect of Article 110 of the current Law, would be said to be increasing dramatically, impeding the punishment of those who deal with corruption. And such a stretching norm that it's impossible to determine what was meant to be said. Namely, the decree says who was declared responsible for corruption. And as far as I know, corruption is a crime and responsibility for corruption is determined by the court. However, the provision does not speak of it, but merely speaks of who is declared responsible, it may be within the state body itself, that it is done by the head of the administration, the minister, the deputy minister, but who is in charge of these affairs. This could be more like obedience, which is the problem of the Croatian administration – police addiction, officials in the state administration. So, for a small profit, for a small profit, several former state officials crashed the entire system of salaries of the state administration and, in addition, expanded a number of employees such as the secretary of the State Election Commission, with a coefficient of 4.26, his deputy with a coefficient of 3,68 who were not even officials. So there was not even any moral obligation or political obligation from the promise of the former that they would be determined in a special way by means of the coefficients they would propose to the Croatian Parliament. For this reason, I think it is very important to stress that the Law is a dangerous precedent, because it could make it clear to the representatives of the union of officials that wages can be bought by political likeness or pressure on the government, and that is not good for us, for the government or for the officials. That's why the SDP won't vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1169	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1170	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, honourable gentlemen of the Parliament. The Law speaks here in this assessment of the situation and basic issues that need to be regulated that one of the priorities of the Republic of Croatia is to combat corruption, the success of the fight against corruption depends on a greater number of factors of which political will and determination in the Republic of Croatia, not only in the public's opinion, but also as a pre-election promise and a general commitment of political parties. There is an assumption of a general consensus on the need to combat corruption in order to combat corruption more effectively in the state administration, it is necessary to prescribe appropriate measures against civil servants who commit parts, etc., etc. Good, I hear you've read it. No doubt, people will clearly, support the measures that go towards reducing corruption, support whistles, support stricter employment conditions, support even greater coefficients, those who should fight corruption. However, what our citizen primarily asks a civil servant to do his job is primarily what he wants. We're supposed to have the highest number of employees in Europe, if we have the most judges, I'm guessing we have some analogy of the most employees. On the other hand, they work as they do, become the brakes of any change. Why? First of all, because of the inconclusive laws that we adopt and they write, because of the number of those laws, because of the fact that there are no sanctions as they do. They're protected like face bears. And on the other hand, life is clearly suffering. People can't exercise their rights, people can't get their licenses, people can't go to an investment for that. Individuals often lose a lot of money because of their work. In one word, I dare say, it is not an obstacle to development in this country, at this time in the Parliament, but above all in the Government, clearly, the state administration, or that administration. For example, if someone asks for a local building permit, and they can't achieve two, three, I don't know, four years, then it's nothing unusual when someone, say, breaks the law. He, you'll lose money because of it, you'll have to pay interest for it and this officer who brought you into such a situation won't fall a hair off his head. While such a citizen, an entrepreneur, on the other hand, does not matter, can simply go bankrupt. So what would primarily be to force those services to do. If we could do that, I'm sure there'd be a lot less crime in this country. It would be in this country then and much less corruption, it would be less thieving, but it doesn't seem to fit anyone in this country. If the Croatian administration were to do what is expected of it, then I am also sure that, on this basis alone, the gross social product per capital could be 1.2% higher than it is today. We would only if they worked, normally I include the government there, and we would have less interest. We'd have fewer unemployed and have our citizens certainly less stressful lives. That is the point, however, unfortunately it is not. And I wouldn't dare say anything to the Parliament, but that officer in, I don't know, Zagreb, Buzet, Pula, who, let's say, is stalling you with some kind of location permit, and that rightly speaking can put your life at risk. I would even dare say there is no corruption in the Parliament. They're kind of talking out of turn so they can do what they're just doing. In the administration, in the state administration, local corruption still exists, as in some media, as there are in companies, clearly the Government and so on. In the Parliament, I dare say no because what do we decide? What do we decide? And then someone, I don't know, is living up to a waiter named Bernie. We're deciding whether one of Bernie's gonna serve MPs or if we're gonna move him I don't know where he's going to work? And I advocate that Parliament be a body above which only God will be. But not the one who sits on the Pantochuck, on the other side of Mark's square, but in the true sense of that word, God. And it could only be achieved at one point when representatives in this country like that in England or America or I don't know where, Germany chose directly. This is what the SDP Club gentlemen were talking about around these coefficients. That's what I think, in a way, in the right sense, that word should be compared to the officials' coefficients. I agree, what Mrs. Anticevic says so, I don't know, the head of the General Affairs Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot have the same coefficient as the representative. Let him go to the polls nice and see what he looks like. When we get here, yeah, I'll tell you that too. We've got pay, we've got decent pay. If someone said we didn't have a lie, they would. But you don't even have a pay phone, you don't have a card, you don't have a 0 kuna for the team. People are convinced that we have it all clear. When you tell them you don't have one, nobody trusts you. They think you're lying. When you convince them with a bill that they're wrong, he says, "And what, nothing." You're a fool and you're done. And it's just like that. That's it, and that's it. Therefore, respected gentlemen and it is the same Mr. Leco when he said that the Government with this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants simply amends, better put an end to the 2007 decision. And what's he doing with this bill? It spreads a circle of fake officials beyond what we had a year ago. And that's certainly not good. I claim that no one in the state service, at that level, if we want to hold this House to the heights of this House can be in that section in a privileged position by the MPs. Now let's just say in some public services than television where there are about 300 more people have higher incomes than ministers and so on. But it's just not a normal situation. The director of each public service is in a better position than the representatives. Or the minister. The chief of every gas station is in a better position today than the MPs. We must in some way fight for the dignity of this House. Well, then, I don't know, state secretaries, directors, presidents, directors of these public enterprises wouldn't be as boastful as they are. And that haughtiness usually affects those who are either helpless or helpless, they are citizens, but sometimes this is reflected in one bad way by the credibility of the government itself. Sometimes they get their heads. Finally, I think it would be a good idea for this bill to go to another reading. Let's let the people say what they're gonna say. Let's open a debate not on rights but on the position of MPs and this House. All union leaders I dare say are in a better position than the minister. Minister if nothing else goes to the election, and these don't even do that. I'm reading now that a union leader had or 39,000 kuna salaries. Okay, I don't mind his 39 grand. Let him have it. But don't let them spill the demagogue "high and high" of those 39,000 kuna salaries on me as well. So I'm standing up not for the greater salary of the MPs that we understand each other, but for the greater working opportunities of each of us individually. That if nothing else can be done, and yet everyone thinks that we have it, there's at least one Slovak Parliament. Let us compare ourselves with them, not to the Germans, the Italians, the Austrians, there is one, I don't know, a secretary, or what we will call it to which we will be able to rely. Not that one parliamentary club has one secretary and that everything just comes down to it. And when I do that to people, someone can laugh as much as they want, I'm trying to explain to us no one just wants to believe it. The head of a small municipality where 400 people live in Lenisto is in a better position than MPs. If there's anything else, at least there's a few people out there who work with him. The director of each municipal company is in a better position than the representatives and the same message should be sent to the Croatian public in some way. And so do those who care about the property of the official. I'm absolutely giving them a lot of rights. Let him do it in the future, but when they talk about us, let them also open their property cards. So the point of this law is to fight corruption. I won't repeat Mr. Lesar. But I'm gonna do something again that I said yesterday. We read that there is now some Croatian FBI where 500 people should be employed in those places that will be responsible to the Director of Police. I say, gentlemen, that really doesn't make sense. Finally, nothing in this country is secret. Everyone will know who these people are. We read that they also leaked these items under quotes of processing these first 100 names they were supposed to deal with. So in one country where we have 27, 28000 people working in the MUP, where we have 10,000 people working in customs, in finance, 280 auditors. I don't know, so 50,000 people who are sort of dealing with citizen supervision where one of these comes to 60, 70 full-aged citizens then there's no point in doing some parallel bodies, but we just need to ask the existing ones to do their job because in this country we all know very well who it is that had what was in our mid-'90s before the war, what it has today, and how if something acquired is what it acquired. So, we should just ask that individuals do their job, and this law as it is proposed is not good, it is not correct and it would be most correct if it were to go into the meaning of a second reading because, in the right sense, it is trying to expand the circle of false officials possible and to a greater number than we had under the existing laws that we changed at the end of 2007. So, the proposal, the conclusion or I don't know what I'm going to call it, the IDS club, is that this legal proposal goes to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1171	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1172	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government. The club of the representatives of the HSS will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants. We believe that this law contributes to the depoliticalisation of the state administration, but also contributes in any case to the fight against corruption. According to the Vatican document, the fight against corruption points out that corruption knows neither the geographical boundaries nor the social layers, nor the profession, and does great damage to everyone in the material, political and moral fields. The benefits come to those who stop on a material and reckless career. Nevertheless, the presence of corruption in some particularly sensitive and socially important activities, or professions, of course, is particularly painful. It hurts because it violates what is particularly important for the individual’s conscience and for the community’s consciousness, which is social and interpersonal relations. Corruption violates the foundations of human dignity and equality. But even in the worst system, a good man will be able to do good, and in the best of bad men he will be able to do evil. Still, he should be aware that with the sins of individuals and groups there are those so - called so - called ones. The structure is wrong. It doesn't make time for people, now it's time for people to make time. Despite its meaning and its other proverb, “the opportunity makes a thief. ” The harsh pressure of the environment can only resist the stronger ones in virtue. Therefore, despite the various objections which we have been exposed to trying to push through this law, it is more likely that it is visible through Article 2 that it is indeed required that those against whom criminal proceedings or those convicted of a criminal offence can not be accepted in the public service. We don't think it's any kind of a boulder drive, but it's perfectly normal stuff. In short, the state service will no longer be able to accommodate family abusers, we know that there have been such not only in the ministries but there have been ambassadors. Also, those suspected of corruption will not be able to be admitted but will be suspended by the end of the procedure. Our proposal is for the Vice-President to consider that Article 2 also lays down a provision that public service will not be able to receive those against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted or who are convicted of a criminal offence against health and against environmental and space protection. We are witnessing that there are a lot of illegal builders, and they are also employed by the state administration. We also witness that many state-owned companies, especially those in charge of the oil industry, contribute to human health and environmental protection. We had such examples in Sisak, Kutina and Rijeka, that many employees do not act in accordance with the law, thus contributing to health, air protection, water protection, full environmental protection, and that sometimes the State's Attorney's Office only takes action against them. We believe that such people do not belong in the state administration or in state-owned companies, and in particular that those who manage such institutions must also be subject to the sanctions of the law. It was also about calling public invitations to join the state service for places that used to refer to ministerial assistants who were officials, and now there will be official posts, so there could be objections to such an approach through the polemics. I can say that such an approach is common both in Ireland and Denmark and in the UK, France, Germany and in other countries that we often like to call especially now in the accession processes. For the first time in the law, a provision on the protection of “whispers” or state officials who report corruption is also introduced, and we find that it is extremely important, that this is a major step and a major contribution because of the fact that it has knowledge of corruption, but often employees are afraid to report it. Until recently, we have witnessed that just when issuing construction permits or using a hotel owner's permission in the coast, the amount of money must have been ordered if he wants to legalise his facility. Of course, similar problems except when we talk about issuing local, construction or useful permits we can also meet in the offices of the state administration in their offices by county. These are the offices that are responsible for the adoption of farm incentive forms, and then there are illegally issued certificates on the use of land of certain large agricultural producers, the incentives for which they have no right are paid because they have not sown those surfaces that have been illegally obtained, and what is most interesting are persecuted by inspectors who determine such situations, and I hope that this provision will nevertheless lead to a steady improvement. I'd also like to draw attention to something that's just being said on the way that this law includes, and I think it's extremely important, it's a question of mobbing. We're witnessing that there's been a transfer of unspeakable employees to the basement or to the premises where the papers are kept. Similarly, individual employees are prohibited from taking breaks as prescribed by law and what is their right and are given orders to carry out jobs that do not fall under their partial work. They're also forced to work overtime, work weekends without getting paid. These are all harsh violations of laws that occur not only within the framework of ministries or at the state level, it is very much happening in the counties, but also in municipalities and cities. What we think at the HSS Club is that it is necessary to do it is certainly to develop a model of rewarding civil servants and their constant schooling, i.e. to enable those who do really work to be paid to do so, to allow them to be constantly educated, but also to allow those who do not fulfil their obligations to either leave the state service or learn how to work. The success of public administration reform depends on civil servants, as well as their willingness to change thoroughly. So it's not enough just for us to pass a law here that should certainly be the best law possible and that should be implemented already there should be people who are willing to implement it in the state administration. Only a modern, professional, responsible and flexible state service is able to perform state functions effectively and provide quality public services to its citizens, and we believe that the adoption of this law is also one contribution to this reform of the state administration and therefore will be supported by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1173	Thank you very much. Vice-President Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as the debate ended in clubs, I will only briefly state in the part in which I have not already explained the inaccuracies or misunderstandings that took place in the debate. I explained to my colleague, Lesar, that not only did the trade unions meet but they suggested, but here is my colleague, Petir, who actually helped me by explaining that the amendments, or articles of this law, are actually common in the countries of a longer democratic tradition, i.e. in the countries of the European Union, which is actually saying that they have already passed a certain procedure, that they have been tested and that they have proved to be good. I thank my colleague Ivić for his support. I just want to say to my colleagues that speaking of the abuses that are possible in the application, it's perfectly logical that every abuse is being punished and this one is being decided by the court. So I don't know what we can change here if the court decides, not politics. And I hope it's from a debate where you say it's high wages, you don't think it should be reduced because we want everyone to have better salaries, and in a certain period of history, it hasn't been long since the pay cut in the state administration was a good method and it hasn't produced any good results. I just want to get some information from my colleague Cain, so don't mind me. I hope my colleague doesn't generalize when he's talking about dysfunctional administration because there are people who do quality work. But we don't have much of a camera. Croatia has about 50,000 civil servants, and in order to have a partnership with some countries, I will tell you for example. Austria has 133 thousand, Belgium 164 thousand, the Czech Republic 101 thousand, Finland 124, Slovenia 69 thousand. In fact, it's not a large number, it's perhaps a dysfunctional one, and we're trying to do this law, and we're bringing that resolution in a certain order. I thank you for your support. When we talk about whistles and protection from mobbing, then all I'm saying is that the protection of whistles and the protection of people from mobbing will be found in other laws. We are still discussing whether one law is needed to regulate it or whether it is sufficient to resolve the Labour Act. But while such a decision is in the process, and we are making this law, we felt that whistles and workers exposed to mobbing were necessary to protect already this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1175	Thank you. We have one correction. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1176	It's incorrect for whistles to be protected by this law. The whistles are threatened that their application is about to be a serious violation of duty unless it's proved whether or not it should be proven. So it is on them and it should have been said that only if they deliberately reported it, rather than waiting for a court epilogue. This way, no one will be protected or protected by those who point to corruption. It is equally not true that this bill increases the salaries of the state administration. The salaries are only being increased to the majority of the government, but not to the state administration, and this is taxing here in Article 2 of the stated persons. Unfortunately, those who are engines especially working here in the Croatian Parliament, such as the secretary board, have a poor coefficient of 2.5 and have this whole work on them, and the deputy secretary of the DIP has 3.25.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1177	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1178	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This bill, as we have just heard from the government's representatives, has been presented as a strong anti-corruption law. But when we take a closer look at what it's all about then we see that it's a single construction for the mass consumption of those famous Poekin villages. Why do I say that? First of all, because it is important for all of us to see if we really want one serious battle against corruption and one better assessment of international institutions, and especially the European Union, which makes serious remarks, particularly on the implementation of the law. But please, can the state really take this malignant thing seriously on our country's tissue if it makes such laws itself or proposes such laws, laws that etiquettely, simply show its custodyal mood. And to whom? Only to those who show one expression, and a good dose of passion for the rulers. And that's something that's certainly not good. If we're going to depolitize the state administration, we're talking about it, small and efficient. Then when concrete laws are passed, then we see that they are installed and that they want to be installed primarily by people for political likeness. But if the state administration comes down to its own party interests and if we don't give God a law like this, then really Croatia doesn't write well, Croatia will seem to take a place in the donkey bench. So here's what this is all about. But before I say any concrete remarks, and I would especially like to warn you, that even more than correctly, a law that is correct, which is right, which would not have and suffer these remarks, is an important political climate in which both our seriousness and manifestations are truly politically willing, that we really want such a depolitical and efficient administration. But if it's happening in a time that's never happened before, that's where a waiter came in, then the question is, how are we going to conduct the depolitanization of the administration? And here's what this is about. The new article, proposed 9th. the addition of Article 151a, i.e. a new article, it bears a name that is very symptomatic of itself, the coefficients of the complexity of the transactions during the transitional period, which is the transitional period, for the jobs which, according to earlier regulations, were the position of state officials. So, only those who were once state officials, to them, and who now become civil servants and deputies, have privileged status, have huge coefficients that far, far from the coefficients of other civil servants and deputies, which directly disrupted this one hierarchy and at all the possibility and seriousness of the work of a civil servant and of a tenant to devote himself to the job, to watch the promotion in that particular profession to advance in such a profession. If such a law is passed ad hoc that, then, some who were then state officials become, in addition to the competition, the internal schedule of state officials or civil servants and subsistences with such a coefficient. It's something that's inadmissible. Here you go. The head of the Office, therefore for Legislatives, that was already the word here would have a coefficient as well as a parliamentary representative. The deputy secretary of the State Election Commission would have a 3.68 coefficient. And Secretary of State Election Commission 4.26. And the secretary of the council committee who works day and night to get this all we're saying, especially on committees, they have a coefficient of 2.5. And these are the people with the legal exam. It's something that's not allowed. It's not allowed for the integrity of this House either. But also for the sake of justice and for the motors simply representing these people who draw, simply and on their shoulders, I would say, the whole part of the work in the Croatian Parliament. But there's still something that's coming into my eyes. The coefficient of complexity, therefore, which is claimed to have previously been, had the position of state officials which is simply not true, because the secretary of State Election Commission and the deputy secretary of State, therefore, did not correspond to the contents of the article, because the secretary of the DIP, nor the deputy secretary of the State Election Commission, was not a state official or had the status of state official. And it is inadmissible that the Deputy Secretary of State's Election Commission has such a coefficient. So what do they deserve? Or we know exactly the person who did it. So we know when the election was and what... So give the people a little, and do not suffer it, as much as a man wills to reward himself, but it does not bear logic. It is contrary to common sense that we do not talk about justice and righteousness. Now, big announcement. We want a big fight against corruption, we want to reward and encourage people to point to such abuses within the system. An effective power cannot be without such whistles. Recently, just three, four days ago, the German government paid the whistler 4m euros because he discovered a huge crime in Germany. And our government is threatening him and it's still showing up as a great protection for whistles. So I ask you who will dare to report any suspicion of abuse if such a provision is made that literally reads, abuse of a civil servant's obligation to report a legitimate suspicion of corruption is a serious violation of official duty. It was meant to be written if there was any serious intention to protect whistles, of course no one can falsely report and that no one has the right nor the society, nor is the state obliged to suffer such lies and malice. But then he has to take on the burden of proof and prove to himself that he wanted to do it. But... There's an inversion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's the burden of proof right there, that doesn't say it, that says the reverse situation, and that's similar to the same thing that the media pointed to in our Penal Code. So the burden of evidence needs to be in the state, in power to prove an evil intention. Because this is how every person under whom not, or any such application, who does not experience a court epilogue with a positive outcome in relation to the application is set up, such a civil servant will be expelled from the official court and who knows what else. In any case, he can say goodbye with his service. So that's one serious remark. And this is how people have had a hard time making decisions, they've suffered a lot of unpleasant things, but this is how if this provision stays, then that last whistler, if there's a whistle stored somewhere, will throw it away and stay away from us in order to say the dead end. Article 2 provides for a great congratulation for civil servants and tenants and then for crimes or acts that are classified in certain chapters of the Penal Code, but here the state does not see that anything is eloquent, it sees nothing in such a shameful way that, for example, someone in a drunken state would run down a few people and it would be any obstacle to the state service. It cannot be, nor is it on the side of the state administration to assess the value of a particular crime and the value of the heads that are lined up in the Penal Code, especially in today's time when the standards of danger and dangerous things and substances and handling them have been raised. How someone who behaves so irresponsiblely and damages the environment, makes huge damage to the state, damages the Adriatic Sea, and comes knocking on the door, I'd get a job at the Ministry of the Sea. And he's a pure absolute and moral man ethically, so quite like it. It should therefore be established in this provision of Article 49, Article 2 of which is subject to criminal proceedings or convicted of offences for which they are prosecuted under official duty, and not here to classify individual heads and to assess their own social hazards. It has already been evaluated by someone else, the Croatian Parliament has already assessed what is the social danger of certain acts that are classified in the head. For this reason, here is what he said and I join the words of my colleague Lek, who spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, I will not support this bill nor can we support it, but it is a pity that these things should be referred to an anti-corruption law, there should be a consensus here if we are serious about fighting corruption and going to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1179	Thank you. I'm announcing that in 13.28 minutes, it's time to sign up for ten minutes. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1180	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague incorrectly stated that some state officials, former state officials, were to deploy to the director's post outside the competition. Well, there's a competition in progress right now for... So no one will be deployed in such a way because the competitions are ongoing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You currently have tenders for several departments of directors in these institutions or in those ministries, therefore it is entirely incorrect. The second thing, as for the coefficients that you are now paying the coefficient of employees of this House, is that you and your party, a few years ago, when you were in power and you were in a position to reduce those coefficients, you reduced them. So give the initiative to increase, and we will discuss it. And the third thing about abuse. We don't decide the abuses, they're decided by the court. So, the court is this instance, unless you want to return the political courts we broke up with in the '90s.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1181	Thank you. Mr. Krono Markovinović's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1182	Here, a colleague incorrectly states that the barmaid's been chit-chatted, unless she thinks the job in the government or somewhere else is less valuable. Many of our colleagues have moved to the government as state secretary and so on, so I'm not so sure they're chicanated, but chicaning is easy to describe. For example, in 2000 hundreds of civil servants were scattered, cops camped here because they didn't get what they were promised. Another 2 billion, you heard last night, another 2 billion kuna will cost us your unfulfilled promises signed. High school teachers didn't get what they needed. So who? You're really a schizophrenic specialist, so you probably know what that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1183	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs. Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, counterpart Ingrid said in her debate that this amendment of the law is based on similar and inappropriate and that it is based precisely on the governing furniture. That is not true, colleagues, because these very changes have happened for this reason because they are based on the models of some European countries. And as for 2000, I'll remind you because you probably forgot it. You have done many injustices in Croatia to civil servants and tenants for mentioning to you earlier my colleagues, but right in the Croatian Parliament how many of you officials and tenants have taken your salaries off in other public services. And thirdly, it is precisely the coefficients for the board's secretaries in the Croatian Parliament that you have set and set yourself up more alike. That's true, I'm a witness to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1185	We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1186	Mr. President, you can see for yourself that my colleague was replicating me and not correcting the incorrect allegations. She gave her opinion. So, I was talking here about politicizing and the small salaries of civil servants and deputies. So she replicated it to me and raised the tile. ... 209, I said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I was talking about not raising everyone's salary but just the likes. And if it were true that I claimed she wasn't... which will be executed by civil servants and subsistence officers.../The speaker has been excluded./... [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] The 12.4. strike is announced by civil servants and tenants.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1187	The lady correctly corrected your claims in accordance with the usual lifting and application for correcting the incorrect quote which has been tradition for many years in this House and has corrected it according to that tradition. And Mrs. Bozica Solic also reported a breach of the rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1188	A colleague of Anticevic also injured the Rules of Procedure in Article 209 but 210, because you were absolutely changing and expressing your opinion and abused the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1189	Thank you. It seems that there will be a supported initiative on amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure to make things a little more precise, so I hope there will be less lifting of unnecessary plates for the injury etc.. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1190	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, the Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm unusually glad that the government is as one of the first laws, although it has a sign of bill no. 2. and sent it by emergency procedure to the Civil Service Act. That shows nicely after last month we chose the government, and after some credited former assistant minister became secretary of state, and yet there are more because new ministries formed, I heard a number yesterday, or yesterday around 50, I'm not sure now. New coalition partners, etc., should now be satisfied, and after all that is said in Articles 4, 5 and 9 of this Bill, these other party colleagues, this time as civil servants, or according to the law of state officials, should be taken care of. And now you're probably wondering why I'm going in like this, starting the presentation, and in advance, I doubt that leading civil servants, or the co-located assistant ministers will be elected by political key. Well, it's because the leaders of individual parties who make up the ruling coalition are publicly bidding on it, and it's going to belong to us this much, and it's going to belong to us that much, and we've agreed on this, and we've agreed on that. So when they publicly speak of it as something that is in itself understood, our government officials can explain to the unconscious that it will not be so and that it will now suddenly improve the work of the state service, the attitude towards citizens, etc., after these presentations of representatives, some representatives of the ruling coalition no one believes. This proposal determines the height of the salary. I don't mind people who work getting paid, I'm surprised it wasn't done as soon as the law changed, uh, which they became civil servants, because it certainly wasn't thought they'd work without pay. But the second question is whether to keep the same salary, given that their status has changed, they've been state officials, they've had that 6 plus 6 and then they should've been looking for a job, and this way they don't have to look for a job anymore, when they're resolved because they're going to stay in the state administration. I also find it interesting to choose such government officials. They will report to the competition and then on the choice of discretion will be decided by the minister, appointed by the government while all other civil servants decide on a special commission. However, in view of the practice and the announcements, I would not be surprised if the other secretary of a certain minister visited them and that candidate in order not to accidentally forget to report to the competition, but if he does not visit him, he will surely be reminded by the president or the president of the party to whom he belongs and which he has already allegedly agreed. It'll be such a conversation in terms of, come on, come on, we've already arranged everything then and then, with that and that. Well, I wonder what you're up to when it's still the same. But then it would be more correct, perhaps instead of calling the executive civil servants for certain duties that would be so chosen to introduce that old term, a social political worker, which can ultimately be understood. One part of this proposal speaks of stricter reception conditions that cannot be accepted, cannot be objected to. However, it seems to me that the rules written are more important than the ones written, whose cousin you are, in which you are strangers, who are your relationship, which are not mentioned in this bill, but probably have an even greater impact on reception and advancement than those written. I was recently on our most remote inhabited island where I was approached by a former civil servant who received a transfer from Lastov to Sibenik. And now imagine how every day it was intended to go to work with Lastov in Sibenik, and to me it seems that the reason for such chicaning was just party membership. It's hard when you don't have a ship's connection and probably the other one. The proposal also mentions the concern of whistles. As one of the great, great measures against corruption. But I think the most effective way to fight corruption is to go into a coalition with those you publicly said you considered more honest. That seems to me to be a much more effective way to fight corruption or to go into coalition with those you said, in front of the public, that your program is personally closer to you, so that then and together, you spend it together. Because if these aren't the main criteria for choosing who you're going to run the country with, then how is it going to be a criterion for something much, much less important? So in this context and prescribing whistle protection would seem more convincing, and as whistles have passed so far, since the synonym for the verb whistles, it would also be the verb-fucking whistles mostly passed so that most of them who were supposed to protect them would say, Colloquially perhaps for them and the fuck-up rather than whistle. In other words, in the current law, without what we have now, many rights are prescribed and yet there is a way to do otherwise. Because, for example, when a civil servant, even if he was a waiter, has the right to protect an unwarranted move away from a job that speaks to Article 12 of the current law, has moved him away again, and probably because there is an explanation also based on some provisions of the law, and I can't finger anyone because I don't know who that place belonged to under the coalition agreement at the bar, so I don't want to unfairly accuse anyone. So far, the waiters have been pushing the guests, and now it's the other way around, so the waiters are pushing themselves, but still there are waiters, any guests, with this kind of work, and with a bill like this, it might be best for the government to declare it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1191	We have three corrections. First is Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1192	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed colleague made an incorrect claim, or, he said, expressed doubts about the implementation of public tenders for the admission of officials to the state service. I think it is not true, and I would remind a respected colleague that just in 2000, the coalition government introduced a public tender for the reception of officials, i.e. employees in the state service, and, behold, miracles, it happened that members of the coalition government were just meeting all the conditions set out in the tenders, unlike what this law, these amendments and the additions of the law on civil servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1193	Thank you. Correction Mr Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1194	... a colleague also said that he would doubt a contest that would be called and that most likely in the ministry would be received socially similar persons. [[Specially enabled.]] I, from my personal experience, will present my case, in 1999 I was admitted to a state service. After the end of the preparatory term of office of 20 months and the professional examination passed, the state exam was immediately removed from that duty. I lost my job just because I wasn't socially like, socially political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1195	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1196	Mr. Representative Vrdoljak said that it is an incorrect assumption that I doubt it, and I doubt it is indeed an exact allegation, here again I can testify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1197	We have a correction to Mrs. Bozica Solic's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1198	Thank you very much... /The speaker is subsequently turned on./... Young counterpart Bauk said in his debate that today's state service is being employed according to family and political principles. My colleague, Bauk, that's not true. I'll tell you if you don't know and that's true. Check me for employment today in the city of Zagreb i.e. in holding your political like-minded Mr. Mayor Bandic employs the entire basic branches of SDP. I can prove it to you and prove it to you, and that's true. And more, blackmail them. You're still blackmailing them with that. You're pregnant and you can't think any other way. Thank you. ... That's your problem. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1199	Focus on the correction, and nobody mentioned Bandic or the city service, so don't expand the debate. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1200	So the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 209 Mr. President, I also thank you for seeing it, intervened. So I didn't say today's what you quoted. So I'll read it again. It seems, I said it seems to me that the written rules are more important than the unwritten ones. That's what I said, and I really feel like I'm testifying to it again, so you can't make me right by what I think I am. I guess I know what it feels like to me. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1201	It is up to Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić who is not present and loses his right to debate. Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1202	Yeah, thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the thing today. A lot has already been said about and against this law. But I will remind all of us that the Croatian Government has already started reforming public administration in the past term, and all to give Croatian citizens a timely and quality service. State and local officials should primarily serve citizens and entrepreneurs in a professional and transparent way. Very often in entrepreneurship circles, as well as in citizens, we hear that the biggest problem of our administration is waiting for a solution to various permits, and that citizens are popularly calling it waiting for paper for several months. Which often leads to the uncertainty of investment in the economy or investment security. The aim of this government's programme is that public administration exists because of citizens and not citizens because of the administration. Last term has already begun with reforms. For the first time, the legislative procedure for handing over government, government obligations and rights at a time when the Croatian Parliament was resolved. The possibility of a direct election of the mayor, mayor and mayor has been introduced. Systemically through the information technology project, information technology is imported systematically into the day-to-day business. For education of state and local officials, the Centre for Education and the Academy of Local Democracy are established. And a month ago, he entered into force and a law under which, precisely because of the speed and efficiency of the building permit, they were issued in major cities and counties. In this term, the government must certainly continue to strengthen its administration and not only the state but also local, regional self-government. We also have before us a proposal for this law that primarily aims to combat corruption in the state administration. Measures should be prescribed against those civil servants who commit acts with the character of corruption. The law also complemented the new Articles 14 and 1a. which has been well considered here and which ensures the right to protect an officer who reports suspicion of corruption through protection against any form of abuse and guarantees him anonymity. In order to protect civil servants from false charges, such a application is considered a serious violation of official duty and I consider it to be a good thing. Because we've already had a few cases when reporting so-called. I'd say fake mobbing because responsible people have been reported to be mobbing over some people and then it's proved that's not it. So there's always one such possibility and I don't know why it wouldn't be prescribed here. It is very often mentioned in the public how politics interferes with the state service. The goal of depoliticalization is now being spoken and today is highlighted and again... that all members of the rank of Assistant Minister, current directors in the ministry, secretaries of the Ministry, Deputy Secretary of Government, Head of the Office of Government, Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Office and Deputy and Assistant Director of State Administration will be elected in a public competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've just heard that several have seen it on the Internet, several such competitions are under way. How tenders will be called normally that were necessary for these jobs and determine the coefficients. It's about more complex jobs than those that were now in the state service that were now in place. Finally, it is important to point out that the Law on Local Servants should be adopted as soon as possible because the absence of this law creates difficulties in applying certain provisions applicable under the Law on State Servants and at local level. And thus make it easier to work in units of local and regional self-government. I'm sorry that young colleague Bauk got out. I need to look back at his exposure. Finally, to point out that this amendment to the law is precisely because of everything we have said here, and not because he claims that some needs would be met, the political needs of the parties to move to jobs. Then you can't, he's gone, but I've got to tell him, probably from somewhere he hears it. You can't have double standards. Because in yours, with your colleagues working locally in just a year, your fellow mayors, your fellow mayors have hired exactly forty, fifty new jobs, to create new jobs in the county. I know an example from my Sisak-Moslavina County and just hired similar to those jobs. So we can't have a double standard. To give a lecture when the word is here which is not the case in the civil service. We know what needs to be fulfilled by every civil servant, what conditions but there is a possibility in local self-government. So we can't have double standards here. And that's why I'm in favour, and this government I believe in in its program is that we will soon have the Law on Local Officials to try to change this kind of manipulation in the local service and that just as this law determines the responsibility of the head of the local self-government units as well as the responsibility of the Head of State Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1203	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1204	I'd replicate my colleague and give her that answer to the replica. So, I wasn't at the gym when you mentioned. However, my opinion is indeed such, so this will be a higher politicisation of the administration than it was before. Because we used to have political people on political duty, and now we're going to have political people on official duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1205	Thank you. The answer to Mrs. Rocksandic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1206	That's a colleague of yours. But when I talked about your debate, I thought you had to be a responsible political party and a responsible politician, sitting there as a representative, right now, not having double thoughts and double standards. Then you must always go away and tell me we will not do it and we do not want to do it, and now you are showing suspicion here. A colleague, in order to get a job in the public service, there are criteria set out and they must be strictly respected. There are often no such criteria at local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1207	Thank you very much. There is no replica on the line, nor can such a thing be allowed even in this extended Rules of Procedure. It's Mr. Ivo Grbić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1208	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. At the very beginning of my debate, I would support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants. The proposed law continues to implement administration reform as one of the key factors for joining the European Union, especially given the priorities of the Republic of Croatia in countering corruption. In particular, the need to fight corruption in the state administration as effectively as possible. It is precisely in this sense that new measures are prescribed to protect a civil servant, so-called State official. “whispering” which has made or has addressed because of reasonable doubt to responsible persons or bodies. But I also think it's a good thing they're being sanctioned if it's about abuse in the form of a serious violation of official duty. The bill further states that I would say a broader circle of criminal offences that constitute an obstacle to the admission to the state service of persons against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted or convicted of criminal offences. The law also better specify the appointment and resolution of government government officials and the failures of these government officials to resolve them. Also, in the bill of law, we have one newspaper that I would like to say in prescribing the mandatory sentence of termination of the state service in the event of the declaration of officials responsible for the serious violation of the official duty which has the character of corruption. In addition to the prescribed cases of distance from the service so far, it is proposed to prescribe a departure from the Office of a civil servant against whom criminal proceedings or proceedings have been initiated for a serious violation of official duty due to acts with the characteristics of corruption. In view of the fact that it is still in preparation for a new Law on the salaries of civil servants, which are planned in full, I stress the way in which the salaries of all civil servants, as well as state officials who have so far had the status of state officials, are prescribed. The proposal for this law temporarily regulates their salaries by applying the salary coefficients they had while acting as state officials. Finally, I would like to point out that, precisely in order to strengthen the fight against corruption, I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants by this approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1209	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1210	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government, Madam Vice President. I think it's important in this part of the amendment when the Vice-President expressed herself, or said she was ready to accept these amendments. I suppose it was only a nomochnik, i.e. that those remarks and proposals that were on the Legislative Committee were not accepted in that part, so I would ask if there was a need for a little further explanation with the best intention of trying, at least trying to fix that not actually being protected by whistles actually makes a much bigger problem for them. I'll try that on a concrete example. This means, if the same person who reports it means corruption which is a serious crime you are putting into your hands to assess the reasonableness of the doubt and its application solves the one who may give him a serious injury means that you have automatically ignored the situation that the head of that body against whom the possible application has actually been made in the situation that long before the court and long before whoever has jurisdiction to determine the justification of the doubt can measure it and apply it, that is to say, using this situation of indeterminate or what we have pointed out on the Committee for Law, which is that it should be very precise to say what the interpretation is, and that it does not actually happen that one important segment, and that is an attempt to believe in a good intention to protect those who report it, can risk a dangerous situation. Why I think it is also necessary to say that there is a great danger for the person himself who should be stimulated, i.e. I assume that the intensity of the legislator is to stimulate and protect the one who points to corruption that I don't otherwise think can be a large or small or difficult act of corruption but is or is not. Just like you can't be some overly legalist. Either he's a legalist, or he's not. So in this part of it, the risks and numbers speak as follows. Only in the police department, and later in the state's attorney's office we have a 25% rejection of criminal charges. This means that in one quarter of the cases, if we apply that number and for the application we call it, the whistler reported a particular act, it is at risk in a quarter of the cases. If they added acquittals or what happens later through a legislative procedure of various variations, it is back to the beginning and that means it is very dangerous to give into the hands of the person against whom the possible application was made, that it is the one who determines the reasonableness of the doubt and can actually put a person at risk and not be stimulated and report corruption. It was about article 1 in this part that was, this is about whistles. As for the revision of Article 2 relating to the amendment of Article 49, I must point out one thing that would be good if we all knew it. The fact that I assume today the Parliament is going to pass this law doesn't solve the case that someone is a pedophile or because we now have the political will to fight corruption forever wiped out of the situation of being in the state service. Namely, if you read it and even in this article it stands well, according to the law specifically means lex specialis I assume that it is clear that it is the Penal Code, there are established ranges after possible serving a sentence or similar. that such a person may be in the service again. That's what this article says here. This means that they would not get carried away by what the situation of rehabilitation itself means, which means that someone may still be a civil servant after the time of eradication from the Justice Department’s records. What I would also like to point out, in part three, that is, when it comes to civil servants, or persons who are prescribed here to go to work in the state service before that were state officials, I think it is a good thing to advocate, as soon as possible, for the real construction of the Law on civil servants who, in addition to the conditions for their appointment, would have a second part, which is that their coefficients are consistent with everyone else. I think it's worth the effort, you'd probably avoid this situation that we have today, which is that in some way we're taking a rain check on whether the head of the director of these planes is someone else's rank, I think it's important for all state officials, and that's where I'm going to use that number. Only the three ministries we discussed today were 50 thousand 860 people in 2006. So the figures on how many people there are or aren't, I think they'll be the subject of some other debate, and I think it's time to talk about it, and I'm sure that both efforts and government, and I believe the Parliament, too, make that apparatus effective. What I want to add next, and that's in this article 49 again, means change. When we spoke on the Legislative Committee on Criminal Crimes, it means why we talked and advocated the idea of inserting part of it under official duty, I'm going to try to rephrase it again, and that means, let's say, Miranda Mrsic comes and tells me something, I push him, he can then press a private lawsuit for a crime and say that I, in fact, caused him an easy physical injury by pushing him. According to what the law says in this situation, he has been eliminated from admission to the state service. It was an intensities that meant well-intentioned criticism, remarks that it would change inside, that it would not actually happen that part of the criminal proceedings being conducted in private lawsuits, and it would have to be treated in the same way, would not possibly be a theoretical possibility and an obstacle for someone to enter the state service. There is currently a possibility of shagging by a particular person, i.e. taking advantage of a possible private criminal procedure. To end, since I think it's good to go on purpose if it's a good intensity and a proposing. I'm sure, my last point, my last remark was in terms of strengthening and educating people who work in public service jobs. In that part of erasing in article 66, erasing the judicial exam, I don't think it's good, it's a bad message, and the message is that we're not able to pay very well for someone who's going to be doing a very important job in that part, just as we're careful that people who were state officials go to places in the state service so they don't get the coefficient that I think it's clear to me that we don't lose the quality of it, I think in this article 66 is the bad version that we're doing it in a way that the head of the office that solves the complaints of civil servants is going to be in a situation that he doesn't need a judicial exam. I think it's a good thing that it's not just because it's potentially certain that his job is going to be too difficult on the General Administrative Procedure Act, but I think that for the sake of acting and everything else in order to what many times we're actually asking for that second degree to be far more quality than the previous one, I'm convinced that a state expert exam is not enough as a condition for a person who needs to lead it. Here, thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1211	Thank you very much. And as last in the debate, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1212	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Vice President! It seems to me, however, that the main reason for these changes is this major transfer from political officials' status to civil servants. As things stand after the appointment of the new government, there's a lot of traffic in the 16th century. And you should meet the expectations of many partners and in a way that allows you to on the duties that are... the fact that they are political and decide in the process of making decisions for people who are directly linked to the political partners who make up the coalition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The current government has served many civil servants for whom there is no room for this moment. There is no room for those duties because new partners must also be represented in the figure. This also means that people who have been loyal, who have done their job well to the government's court, who, above all, have done the political, therefore to the state, the jobs they were expected to do, should in some ways be thanked, allowing them to return well to the good. So here it is, now in some way, introducing a special category of civil servants that I would like to call here so freely superiors, state officials. Namely, what it's about. In order for someone to be appointed to a state office, they do not have to meet any of the only conditions prescribed for civil servants. So we know there's an assistant minister, there's state secretaries who don't meet those terms prescribed by law, for example, for so-called. My superiors. They don't have ten years of work. They don't have an expert exam. They came to their seats first of all because of the party's confidence in the government. Now, overnight, these people get status as if they have met all the criteria set for officials and are allowed to pay more than their future fellow civil servants, or senior officials, people who run departments, departments, services, who sign documents, who have the right to sign legal acts. For them now is a matter of special niche in which they will be able to get everything they didn't actually deserve because they don't meet the formal criteria. It's said here that by the time a special law is passed, it'll be worth it. And maybe the law will just be passed when they finally meet the conditions. That's why I remind you, there's a lot of traffic in a 16-year-old. There are colleagues who have also talked about how people are employed in public administration. So there's always talk of competitions. Here, I'll tell you an example of how my colleague does it, otherwise the president of the strongest opposition parties in my city, and our current Mr. Finance Minister. If you remember a year and a half ago HDZ lost power in Velika Gorica for the second time in the local elections. Up to three times God helps, people say. What happened? Five, five of the closest party officials and associates of Mr. Shucker were employed within ten days without any public tender. And you know where? Not to a friend of Pera's, in his company. It's in the INA where the minister is the chairman of the board of directors. At the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, in Croatian Insurance. And also in the Office of State Administration at the post of Assistant Chief. All without a public competition. So we can do this, we can do this anyway. That is why I propose that this law be renamed to the Law on the Extraordinary Syndicates of Ex-Sincuary, Loyal and Loyal State Political Officers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1213	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Kundic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1214	Your Honor, Mr. President! I'm correcting Mr. Beus' incorrect claim that in his inspiring speech he's committed a lot of mistakes. First, he said that it is employed in the state service, that not one condition must be met, but mostly by similarity, which is not true, because the law accurately sets out criteria for these jobs. Secondly, he said that in Velika Gorica, Minister Schuker hired five people who, which the coming furniture had kicked out of their jobs... I'm sorry, I got blood coming out of my nose. ... I don't have to finish? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1215	Thank you very much. Finally, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will thank all of you who were in the debate shortly before all of this. And be sure and I won't be dealing with debates that are painted politically, because I would like to look only at what is at the core of this law, which is an attempt to get one more efficient depolitical state administration that will be more professional and more accessible to all citizens. And that for the first time in the law, we have the protection of whistles and protection from mobbing. Maybe it doesn't seem enough to someone. But remember at least two of the most famous whistles. Would they have been in the state administration if there was a law like this? I assure you, he probably wouldn't. And possible abuses must be punished in every law and here, ladies and gentlemen. It will not be decided by any political court but by an official court and a senior court. And for every abuse must be answered, even for this one. So there's no reason to say here, it's here to be exempt from possible abuse. The problem is how to fill in empty spaces. Some also retired. And we really don't want criminals, criminals, or those who are accused of it. I really find it amazing here to mention that someone who has trampled three children here will be able to get a job. With any good lawyer he could get. I don't know, maybe they exist somewhere less than six months in prison. Let's not bring the law to absurdity if what's most important in it seems acceptable to us. There are ways to fix the law. They're amendments. We've had plenty of time and we've had enough time to talk about it, and I think we're still counting and there's still an amendment to be submitted. I assure you, we will consider every amendment regardless of which party it comes from. The fact is that the party's belongings were at least by what could be heard here I must admit from an immodest little experience could also say that at a certain time it was an advantage. But this time, it's really an attempt to reduce it at least in the first step. Public tenders go, we will all monitor them, discuss them, discuss them, and warn about all irregularities. So this is a very important step. There's another problem if we're talking about civil servants who need to be told the same thing. Let's not forget that this job is actually very unattractive. It's a job where wages are low even when we raise them and it's very hard to get professional, educated people to do that job for you. Therefore, if someone’s salary has now grown in a new law that is in the pay procedure, others must grow. So the law is in the process that at least we try to make that place more attractive. I would like to tell you that the strategy for the development of the state administration is over, that you will soon be able to discuss it publicly, that it will also be discussed on the GSV and that it will certainly bring important changes to this particular portfolio. And it's also in the final phase, and by summer, the Law on Local Officials will be discussed, so we'll round up at least one part of it by summer. This is indeed an attempt to get the state service back in a certain way or create it, make the service more attractive and make it better and pay in the second phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1217	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The vote is at 3:00. I ask clubs to ensure the presence of representatives so that they can finish this week by voting successfully for the discussed laws and other decisions. Thank you very much. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 2. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1219	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1220	Amendment 1 to Article 1
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1221	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1222	Thank you. Amendment 2 to Article 4
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1223	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1224	Thank you. Amendment 3 to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1225	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1226	Thank you. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1227	That's the one. We've accepted all the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-02-22-0.u1228	The amendments adopted are an integral part of the law, a final draft law and I am giving the law as a whole a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. 79 for, 41 against and one abstention accepted this...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We move to the 1st item of the agenda of today's session. - Proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 with a draft budget for 2009 - Croatian Waters, - Croatian Highways, - Croatian Roads - National Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Resolution, - Croatian Privatisation Fund, - The National Budget and Financial Plans for 2008 with the Proposed projection for 2009 and 2010 (consolidated), The Ex-Programme Budget and Financial Plans for non-procedural users for 2008 and the projections for 2009 and 2010. The draft budget is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. I would like to draw attention to Article 31(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The budget law under which amendments proposed by an increase in budgetary expenditure and expenditure over the amount set out in the draft budget may be adopted provided that a reduction of other expenditure and expenditure is proposed at the same time... The expenditure and expenditure shall not be proposed on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore warn that only those amendments drawn up pursuant to the said Article of the Budget Act will be referred to in the parliamentary procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Dr Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
