ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5139	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The legal status of the Croatian minority, the minority community in the Republic of Macedonia and is constitutionally defined within the so-called group. small ethnic communities. Croatia's minority community is predetermined by a limited range of minority rights and particularly difficult access to the budgets of the dominant state. As against high standards of protection of minority rights in the Republic of Croatia, it is important for the Croatian community in the Republic of Macedonia to find it difficult to achieve rights, elementary minority rights from publishing activity, insufficient access to media to meet educational needs. Therefore, during bilateral talks at the highest level on the occasion of a visit to the Republic of Macedonia, Dr. Ivo Sanader, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on 22 May 2006 and Mr. President Mesic, President of the Republic of Croatia on 24 October 2006 raised questions about improving the status of the Croatian community in the Republic of Macedonia. Co-operation in the protection of minorities between Croatia and Macedonia has been assessed insufficiently, so it is proposed to conclude a bilateral interstate agreement. In this sequence, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to initiate the agreement procedure on 26 April 2007, and negotiations for the conclusion of the agreement were held in Zagreb on 18 June 2007, resulting in the agreement proposed by the Croatian side and then signed by Croatia by the former foreign minister, Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, and by Macedonia by Antonija Milosevski also the foreign minister, in Split on 13 October 2007. The Macedonian side ratified the Agreement in Sober on 30 January 2008 and made an announcement on this note from 12 February 2008. On the basis of this Treaty, the Parties undertake to provide minority members with the right to express, preserve and develop, national, cultural, linguistic and religious identity, as well as the right to maintain and develop minority education, i.e. education, media and the achievement of their specific interests. Furthermore, the parties undertake to ensure that minority members are free to choose and express their right to belong to a national minority, and to enjoy all rights in connection with that choice, the right to enjoy non-discrimination, as provided for in international documents, the right to protect against any activity that threatens or threatens their survival, cultural autonomy, maintenance, development and demonstration of their own culture, and the preservation and protection of their cultural goods and traditions. The right to preserve the national identity and religion, the right to education in the language and letter of the national minority, public and private use of languages and letters, and information, as well as the use of the signs and symbols of the national minority, the protection of equal participation in public affairs, self-organisation and association in order to achieve common interests and to enjoy political and economic freedoms. The Agreement further provides for the establishment of an Intergovernmental Mixed Committee to meet at least once a year for the purpose of monitoring and implementing the Agreement. Maybe just one more piece of information. Based on a 2003 census from the State Statistics Office of the Republic of Macedonia. In Macedonia, 2686 Croats live and most live in Skopje and Bitola, and in smaller groups live in other Central and Eastern Macedonian cities. They were organised in the Skopje-based Croatian community in 1996 and have their branches in Bitola, Ohrid, Struga and Stipa, and in Macedonia the Macedonian-Croatian company Marko Marulic, based in Bitolia, founded in 1993. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5140	Thank you very much. Do the work bodies want reporters? Yeah. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5141	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, held at its session yesterday 13 March, discussed the proposed Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in the Republic of Macedonia. We must point out that in the debate, the Committee members pointed to the very important role that the Croatian minority plays in the Republic of Macedonia, as well as the Macedonian minority in the Republic of Croatia. They have, not only in their protection of national interests, but in the overall, overall social life of the two countries, and above all in bilateral relations between the countries as an important link and the initiator of numerous activities and programmes. In particular, it should also be pointed out that the conclusions of this committee, which in the previous meeting of this High House, adopted at the session a whole series of proposals and conclusions and asked for the right solution to the many problems of the Croatian national minority in Macedonia, and one of the first conclusions is the signing of one such agreement that is here today before us. On several occasions, the Committee has pointed out on several occasions when considering the State Budget proposal the problem of insufficient funds that are allocated to these needs in the Republic of Croatia's budget, and we must point out here that no kuna has been allocated in the budget of the Republic of Macedonia since 2004, not a single euro however you will, not a single penny for the needs of the national minority, the Croatian national minority in Macedonia. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian minority in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore we propose that this agreement be adopted and that this certainly means resolving many problems for the Croatian minority in Macedonia and for the Macedonian minority in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5142	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy and European Integration. Foreign policy, actually. Committee Chairman Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the 3rd session held on 14 March 2008, the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia and protecting the rights of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian minority in the Republic of Croatia, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 6 March 2008. This proposal was considered by the law as an interested working body. In the debate, the committee members pointed to an extremely important role that the Croatian minority in the Republic of Macedonia as well as the Macedonian minority in the Republic of Croatia have in the overall social life of the two countries, and in bilateral relations between the countries as an important link, the initiator of numerous activities and programmes. The problem of providing the necessary funds for the work of the Croatian community in the Republic of Macedonia is particularly highlighted. Unfortunately, since the debate has highlighted over the past few years no funds in the Republic of Macedonia's budget have been allocated to the work of the Croatian community, although the basis of this agreement should provide certain resources in the Republic of Macedonia's budget for the exercise of the rights governed by this agreement. As the debate highlights, the Republic of Croatia should continue to allocate significant funds to help and programmes of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Macedonia. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian minority in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5144	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5145	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that Croatians, that Croatia has an obligation to protect the rights and interests of their citizens living abroad, and for this reason is ahead of us the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian minority in the Republic of Croatia with the final proposal. According to the 2001 census, 4270 Macedonians live in the Republic of Croatia, while 2686 Croats live in Macedonia. In its legislation dealing with national minorities, their status, position and rights, the Republic of Croatia had built-in provisions providing the Macedonian national minority with the highest standard in accordance with international contracts and other human rights documents and fundamental freedoms as well as the protection of national minorities. The Croatian community in Macedonia, although the numbering small very well-organised, had legal status as a small ethnic community and as such was not in a position as the Macedonian national minority in the Republic of Croatia. So she couldn't draw all the rights that followed her as did the Macedonian minority in Croatia. And for this reason, the Government of the Republic of Croatia launched activities in May 2006 and initiated the issue of improving the status of the Croatian community in Macedonia. The agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the protection of national minorities and of one and the other countries was signed in Split on 13 October 2007. This bilateral agreement was ratified by the Republic of Macedonia. This Agreement also obliges minorities to ensure the right to express and preserve, develop national, cultural, linguistic and religious identities, as well as the right to maintain and develop minority education, i.e. education, media and the achievement of their specific interests. If this agreement had not been signed, I am deeply convinced that in 10, 20 years, we could not have talked about the Croatian national minority in Macedonia, because I would have been assimilated. This Agreement also guarantees the preservation and protection of national identity, the right to the private and public use of languages and letters as well as the use of the signs and symbols of national minorities as well as what is most important for one and another minority will have the possibility to protect equal participation in public affairs, self-organisation and association in order to achieve common interests, and to enjoy political and economic freedoms. The parties pledged to monitor and encourage the establishment of cultural and educational centres with special care. To such institutions and centres, to send books, magazines and other funds for non-commercial purposes, to support publishing activities, and to organise the hosting of professional and amateur cultural and artistic groups, all in order to preserve and enrich the identity of minority cultures in both countries. This agreement also defines the right to report via the press and radio and television in the language and letter of the national minority, but also discusses easier access to the media through supporting the publication of printed media in the language and letter of national minorities, supporting broadcasting of radio and television programmes in the language of national minorities, as well as encouraging the acquisition and distribution of the home country's radio and television programmes. In order for this to be realised, both sides will also have to provide adequate funds. With this agreement, the Republic of Croatia reaffirms its commitment to care for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia not only materially but also interstate agreements guaranteeing improved status of minority communities. I sincerely hope that these and similar agreements will continue in the coming period because there are countries with which we do not have a signed agreement, in which Croatian communities live. Through its legislation, the Republic of Croatia has provided high standards for the protection of the rights of national minorities, which unfortunately is not the case in all the countries caused by the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. I will only give an example of Bosnia and Herzegovina that does not have a national minority law yet, and where the rights of Croats are one of the three constituent peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in some segments below the level of rights of national minorities guaranteed by the laws on national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. I therefore sincerely hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, in accordance with its Constitution and as co-signator of the Dayton Peace Agreement and as a regional leader, become involved in improving the situation, i.e. by not interfering in Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal affairs in the fair fight of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina for its equality, sovereignty and constitutionality. I am glad that Mr. Tankovic is here, and he could also influence with his position on the solution of these things as well as Mr. Pupovac. That this agreement will not only remain a dead letter on paper will be provided by an intergovernmental mixed committee to monitor the implementation of this Agreement and will have the task of considering the implementation of the Agreement and making recommendations to governments in connection with the implementation of the Agreement. Of course, in order to achieve the obligations undertaken by this agreement, it is also necessary to provide the funds, and this agreement will be sure and done in accordance with both national legislation and in accordance with the possibilities of both countries. These two national communities, i.e. minorities I am convinced, will be a link to improving bilateral relations between Macedonia and the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes this is a high-quality proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian minority in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law and as such will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5146	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. He's gone. The club loses the right to debate on this agenda point. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, Mr. Representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5147	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Representatives' Club confirmed in today's debate that we will vote in favour of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian minority in the Republic of Croatia. I have one more reason to talk about this law here. As a representative of five minorities, including the Macedonian minority, I can certainly give you some facts. The Macedonian national minority in Croatia is certainly among the best organised minorities. I can testify to you on the basis of a whole series of facts, but I would only mention that as a very frequent guest on the occasion of Ilinden, on the occasion of Macedonia's new year, I see and associate with many members of that minority. What I may also be able to point out is common in the history of the Croatian and Macedonian peoples, as the Croats have, for many years, been challenged and brought into one position where others have imposed their authority. He would therefore recall many cultural ties between Croats and Macedonians. Let's not forget that Samobor has just printed one of the most beautiful books in Macedonian literature "White Mugra". In the past term, together with my associates, I was in Macedonia and I had the opportunity to speak not only to members of the Macedonian community but also to other minorities, Bosniak, Albanian and certainly had contacts with Croatians in Macedonia. And what especially delights me is every arrival from Croatia, the Croatian minority welcomes. I was also informed that you, Mr. President, will soon, that Croatian Parliament President Luka Bebić will soon visit Macedonia and are already looking forward to this event. I stress, the Macedonian community is very well-organised and in the system funded and the National Minority Council reflects their demands. It should also be mentioned that in 2006, the Macedonian Orthodox Church received a little more than 800 thousand for its systematic work and I believe that this agreement and the Croatian minority that was very well received in Macedonia will receive a new impulse for its development and, once again, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5148	Thank you. Now we continue with an individual debate. And the first reported representative is Mr. Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia is to take care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia under Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia protects the rights and interests of its citizens who live or reside abroad and promotes their ties with their country. Parts of the Croatian people in other countries guarantee special care and protection of the Republic of Croatia. By breaking up the state legal bond with the former SFRY and declaring the Republic of Croatia as an independent and independent state, a large number of Croats remain outside the Republic of Croatia in the newly created countries of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian minority in the Republic of Croatia. The parties undertake to ensure that members of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian minority in the Republic of Croatia are entitled to express, preserve and develop national, cultural, language and religious identity as well as the right to maintain and develop minority education or education of the media and to achieve their specific interests. Furthermore, the parties undertake to ensure freedom of choice for members of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian minority in the Republic of Croatia to vote on the nationality of the national minority and to enjoy all rights in connection with the election. The right to enjoy non-discrimination as provided for in international documents, the right to protect against any activity that threatens or threatens their survival. Cultural autonomy by maintaining, developing, showing its own culture and preserving and protecting its cultural goods and traditions. The right to preserve national identity and religion. The right to education in the language and letter of the national minority, public and private use of language and letter and information, as well as the use of the signs and symbols of the national minority, the protection of equal participation in public affairs, self-organisation and association in order to achieve common interests and to enjoy political and economic freedoms. The Agreement provides for the establishment of an Intergovernmental Mixed Committee to be met at least once a year and will monitor the implementation of the Agreement in accordance with international agreements and other documents on human rights and fundamental freedoms as well as in the protection of national minorities and, in particular, the Charter of the United Nations, the General Declaration on Human Rights, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Race Discrimination, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, the Rights of the Child, the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Unbearableness and Discrimination on the basis of Faith and Faith, the Declaration on the Rights of Persons, Members of National, Ethical, Religious and Language Minorities. The relevant documents adopted by the Organisation on European Security and Cooperation and, in particular, a document adopted at the Copenhagen Conference on the Human Dimension in the 1990s. the year and the report from a meeting of government experts on the protection of minorities held in Geneva in '91. At this very time Croatia was on fire. I wish they had a little more faith and attention for Croatia, today it wouldn't be what it was, what happened in the '90s wouldn't have happened. and '91. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and other relevant documents of the Council of Europe. With this law, we want to achieve the reciprocity of Croatian minorities in Macedonia, as Croatia has one of the best laws on minorities, thus improving the conditions and rights of the minority Croatian community in the Republic of Macedonia. This bill should be supported for the benefit of our Croats in the Republic of Macedonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5150	Thank you. We will continue with the individual debate of the distinguished representative, Mr Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5151	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian Minority in the Republic of Croatia. The constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia is to take care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. This clearly provides for Article 10. A constitution that says the Republic of Croatia protects the rights and interests of its citizens who live or reside abroad and promotes their ties with their homeland. Parts of the Croatian people in other countries guarantee special care and protection of the Republic of Croatia. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law lies in Article 139(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. A large part of the Croatian people live outside the Republic of Croatia, as a consequence of our very violent history and migration of all possible species from economic to political. So in a large number of countries in the world today live members of the Croatian people. One of these countries is certainly the Republic of Macedonia. A part of the Croats remained living in the Republic of Macedonia as the former state fell apart. Their number, according to the 2002 census in Macedonia, amounted to slightly less than 3,000, although a figure of 5,000 is also mentioned. It is mentioned by representatives of the Croatian community in Macedonia. The position of the Croatian community in Macedonia which is very active and which is significant for the prominent here is nowhere near the position of the Macedonian and other national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, because we have defined the rights and position of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia by the National Minorities Act. The status of the Croatian community in the Republic of Macedonia The Constitution of the Republic of Macedonia is defined in the frameworks of a group of small ethnic communities, which exerts great burden on community work as well as access to the budgets of the Republic of Macedonia. The Skopje-based Croatian community was founded in 1996 with branches in Bitola, Ohrid, Strug and Stipa and just earlier in 1993, a Croatian Macedonian company based in Bitola named Marko Marulic was founded. Croatian and Macedonian people throughout history have always had good understanding and cooperation and from recent history we should mention the help of our boys who left the then Yugoslav army in Macedonia in 1991 where many young lives were saved. It is also noted that the first condemnation of the Yugoslav People's Army and Serbia's aggression against Croatia, the Republic of Croatia came right from Macedonia's space including all the premises of the former Yugoslavia from individual political parties operating in the Republic of Macedonia. I said that the Croatian community in Macedonia is quite active and its position may be difficult because of the overall picture of the Macedonian society that is going through a difficult transition time. This agreement is the fruit of a long-standing effort by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to improve the position of Croatian communities in all countries where the Croats live, as well as the government's policies, which closely cooperate with representatives of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, to improve their overall rights because the government's commitment is that very few bridges of cooperation are between individual states. Thus, following Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader's visit, Macedonia is launching an initiative to conclude a bilateral interstate agreement that will improve the position of the Croatian minority in Macedonia and Macedonia in the Republic of Croatia. The agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian minority in the Republic of Croatia was signed on 13 October 2007. This Agreement obliges the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia to provide minority members with the right to express, preserve and develop national, religious, cultural, language identity or the right to minority education, the right to education, media, etc. So this agreement offers the highest European standards for minorities in both countries. We in this home had a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 for the needs of national minorities. This report was adopted and we were able to see how the Republic of Croatia took care of national minorities. The HDZ government will continue to implement a policy of care and good co-operation with national minorities but will continue to take care of both Croatians and Croatian communities around the world. After a series of agreements on the protection of national minorities signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I will mention only some such as the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Italy, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary. We will also adopt this law so that the position of the Croatian community in Macedonia will be better and ties with the country will be stronger and we will continue to work well with the Macedonian National Community in the Republic of Croatia. I join the wishes of Mr Lužanski, who also spoke of the difficult situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the hope that soon the state of Croatian people's rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be significantly improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5152	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Next reported for an individual hearing is a respected representative of Mr. Rade Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5153	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the adoption of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Macedonia and the Macedonian minority in the Republic of Croatia, and I would like to say a few words about this. The constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia is to take care of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia in the broadest sense of the word. The Republic of Croatia is also obliged in accordance with international agreements and other human rights and fundamental freedoms documents, as well as to protect national minorities, to ensure that the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are consumed as laid down in these documents. By passing this law, Croatia is taking another step towards meeting its obligations to Croats living and staying outside the Republic of Croatia in this case of Croats in Macedonia as well as to national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and in this case a concrete Macedonian minority in Croatia. Croatians in Macedonia are not recognised as a national minority but as a small ethnic community and given their unfavourable position, the process of assimilation is present. Croatians in Macedonia were organised in the Croatian Community in Macedonia, based in Skopje in 96 and its branches are located in Bitola, Ohrid, Struga and Stipa. The Macedonian-Croatian company Marko Marulic, based in Bitola, also operates, which is somewhat earlier founded. It is important to stress that a Croatian language lecture is also established in 1998 at the Faculty of Philosophy "Ciril and Methodius" in Skopje, but it is also important to say that there are no special shows in Croatian in Macedonia and it is possible to monitor the Croatian radio and TV programmes first and second respectively, HRT Plus. It is also important to say that there are no bilingual inscriptions, and children speak less and less Croatian. The Croatian language course is organized and organised only by the Croatian community in Skopje. As for Macedonia's concerns and concerns for the Croatian minority in Macedonia, I think it is important to say that the Republic of Macedonia first allocated 9.5 thousand marks to the Croat community in Macedonia and Macedonian-Croatian societies in Skopje, and to the Macedonian-Croatian society in Bitola 12 thousand and 700 marks. The appropriations are not granted for 2000 and 2001. For 2002, the Croatian community received 2 000 700 euros, while for 2003, 2004, 2006, 2007, nothing was set aside again for the needs of Croats in Macedonia. On the contrary, in 2006 alone, Croatia singled out a million 333 thousand and 281 kuna for the Macedonian minority. I welcome the government's efforts to ensure the conditions of national minorities to protect and achieve their rights in full terms of the word and the efforts to help Croats living and staying outside the Republic of Croatia and to exercise their rights as national minorities or as part of Croatian peoples in other countries, especially when it comes to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to remind myself of the fact that against all the rules of democracy, the Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina as sovereign and constitutional people are being denied the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Dayton Agreement, whose signature is Croatia and... in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Dayton Agreement has changed, upgraded and complemented Croatians since 2001. The result of these changes is to take away the mechanisms of protection and... national interests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The right to institutions and... in Croatian, right to education in Croatian, right to television channel in Croatian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I just want to say that there was a Croatian radio television of regional character that was taken from the right to be called Croatia, now called Herzegovica. Although much wider acts than the territorial concept of Herzegovina. Therefore, the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are discriminated against even though the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina guarantees them the status of a modern and constitutional people. The Republic of Croatia and its institutions are expected to continue caring for the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I believe it will be stronger than in the past. As I believe I share your opinion and understanding when I say it is a vital issue of the entire Croatian Corps. Understanding the full position of the Croatian minority in Macedonia, as well as the Macedonian minority in Croatia, I support the adoption of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5154	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the adoption of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Macedonia and the Macedonian minority in the Republic of Croatia, and I would like to say a few words about this. The constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia is to take care of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia in the broadest sense of the word. The Republic of Croatia is also obliged in accordance with international agreements and other human rights and fundamental freedoms documents, as well as to protect national minorities, to ensure that the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are consumed as laid down in these documents. By passing this law, Croatia is taking another step towards meeting its obligations to Croats living and staying outside the Republic of Croatia in this case of Croats in Macedonia as well as to national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and in this case a concrete Macedonian minority in Croatia. Croatians in Macedonia are not recognised as a national minority but as a small ethnic community and given their unfavourable position, the process of assimilation is present. Croatians in Macedonia were organised in the Croatian Community in Macedonia, based in Skopje in 96 and its branches are located in Bitola, Ohrid, Struga and Stipa. The Macedonian-Croatian company Marko Marulic, based in Bitola, also operates, which is somewhat earlier founded. It is important to stress that a Croatian language lecture is also established in 1998 at the Faculty of Philosophy "Ciril and Methodius" in Skopje, but it is also important to say that there are no special shows in Croatian in Macedonia and it is possible to monitor the Croatian radio and TV programmes first and second respectively, HRT Plus. It is also important to say that there are no bilingual inscriptions, and children speak less and less Croatian. The Croatian language course is organized and organised only by the Croatian community in Skopje. As for Macedonia's concerns and concerns for the Croatian minority in Macedonia, I think it is important to say that the Republic of Macedonia first allocated 9.5 thousand marks to the Croat community in Macedonia and Macedonian-Croatian societies in Skopje, and to the Macedonian-Croatian society in Bitola 12 thousand and 700 marks. The appropriations are not granted for 2000 and 2001. For 2002, the Croatian community received 2 000 700 euros, while for 2003, 2004, 2006, 2007, nothing was set aside again for the needs of Croats in Macedonia. On the contrary, in 2006 alone, Croatia singled out a million 333 thousand and 281 kuna for the Macedonian minority. I welcome the government's efforts to ensure the conditions of national minorities to protect and achieve their rights in full terms of the word and the efforts to help Croats living and staying outside the Republic of Croatia and to exercise their rights as national minorities or as part of Croatian peoples in other countries, especially when it comes to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to remind myself of the fact that against all the rules of democracy, the Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina as sovereign and constitutional people are being denied the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Dayton Agreement, whose signature is Croatia and... in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Dayton Agreement has changed, upgraded and complemented Croatians since 2001. The result of these changes is to take away the mechanisms of protection and... national interests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The right to institutions and... in Croatian, right to education in Croatian, right to television channel in Croatian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I just want to say that there was a Croatian radio television of regional character that was taken from the right to be called Croatia, now called Herzegovica. Although much wider acts than the territorial concept of Herzegovina. Therefore, the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are discriminated against even though the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina guarantees them the status of a modern and constitutional people. The Republic of Croatia and its institutions are expected to continue caring for the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I believe it will be stronger than in the past. As I believe I share your opinion and understanding when I say it is a vital issue of the entire Croatian Corps. Understanding the full position of the Croatian minority in Macedonia, as well as the Macedonian minority in Croatia, I support the adoption of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5155	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We've come to the fourth of six individual debates reported so far. I give my word to Ms. Ivanka Roksandić's distinguished representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow Secretary of State, just a few words. I think my colleagues stressed the importance of signing this Agreement, and I am going to say today that I participated in the last meeting of this House of Commons, in the work of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and participated in the work of the Croatian subcommittee in the European countries that acted within this Committee. I must point out that by discussing the situation in which Croats live in European countries in 9 European countries, this subcommittee has encouraged a whole series of problem resolutions, in particular the problem of obtaining Croatian citizenship, due to the increasing assimilation of Croats in the countries and in the peoples in which they live. I must also point out that we have encouraged the creation of a roof law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, it has been initiated, as far as I have knowledge, such a law for making in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Integration and the Ministry of Justice. I sincerely hope that he will see the light of day and that as such he will simply try to solve all the problems that the Croats face not as a constituent people but as a national minority in European countries. What to say about this small but really strong and very active community of Croats in Macedonia. On two occasions I stayed in this community and I can say, there are nothing less of them than the Macedonians in Croatia, namely 0.1% of the Croats in Macedonia and so many Macedonians in Croatia. But unfortunately, until the signing of this Agreement, they could not achieve even the right of funding for the work of their associations, their organisations and their communities, because there was no such bilateral agreement. Unlike Macedonians in Croatia who are due to the Constitutional Law and for everything that the Republic of Croatia does to preserve the traditions of its national minorities and customs and the financing of associations. What they have accomplished, we have heard already today from Macedonians in Croatia. I must tell you that, apart from the Croatian community in Macedonia and the Macedonian-Croatian society, who are strong in safeguarding Croatian national identities, they will participate in the entire, cultural and social life of Macedonia. So they are all present with their literary clocks, with their art watches, with their dramatic section that is strong, which includes an increasing number of young people who thus guard Croatian. I must point out that our Ministry of Education, Science and Sports is funding the learning of Croatian language in the Macedonian community once a week comes a teacher of Croatian language and an increasing number of young people are involved in learning Croatian, because unfortunately young people speak Croatian. Publishing is also strong in Croatia, but the Croatian word comes out as a three-month-old, and some other magazines are mostly published by Croatian writers but are also recognised as Macedonian writers. I must also highlight an important action launched by the Catholic mission in the Republic of Macedonia, headed by Monsignor Cirimotic, otherwise the director of Caritas in Skopje, who launched a humanitarian action involving not only Croats in Macedonia but all of Macedonia's cultural workers, known and recognised artists, drama artists, directors who launched the action, musicians to buy the first organ, church organ in the Republic of Macedonia. And here, I think all that we heard today and what the Croats in Macedonia expect, and that is, above all, the signing of this agreement because on January 31st of this year, the Assembly ratified this agreement. I think it will be a good way, a good way to cooperate between the two republics in bilateral relations, but also in recognising their own national minorities. And I don't think there's any dispute to confirm this agreement in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5157	Thank you very much. A distinguished representative of Mr. Shime Lucin appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5158	Thank you very much. I don't think there's really anyone in this assembly that needs to be confirmed or ratified. So, accept this law. But yesterday, my colleagues and I discussed this on the board. It seems to me, in fact, that the essence of showing concern for Croatians, in Macedonia, as well as other European countries is. That it should be materialized in a certain way. You know that one of the main problems is why Croats who are at the level of the ethnic group in Macedonia are not receiving any money from the Macedonian government, or the Macedonian Parliament. For a simple reason, because they do not formally receive any money from the Croatian Parliament, or the Croatian government. And in fact, if this agreement is not followed and that at least some money is being paid, so to begin with, if there are not enough at the symbolic level, I don't think that this ethnic group, or the Croats in Macedonia, is going to have a certain weight. On the other hand, I think it is very good that the Croatian government is financing the Macedonian community in Croatia. I think last year we heard about 600,000 kunas. This year it'll be more. I see no reason why approximately that amount of money would not be to help the Macedonians, pardon the Croats in Macedonia. Otherwise, I don't think that the entire policy of financing Croats outside Croatia is well-organised. At the last session of the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities, we also had the expressed dissatisfaction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the total funding, i.e. the assistance of Croats outside Croatia. Therefore, I think that the general government of Croatia, and this Parliament, too, should pay attention to this funding materially. Perhaps now when it comes to Croats in Macedonia, it is an opportunity to correct it in a certain way when visiting the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5159	Thank you very much. We'll hear the answer to the replica. Representative Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5160	Thank you. .../Mimica: microphone./...... Excuse me. I completely agree with you, and yesterday I pointed it out in a session of this committee. However, without this small support, small support from the Croatian Community in Macedonia could not work. Believe me, colleague Chuhnil and I stayed in this community last year and I have to admit we've launched a few actions. I won't mention it now, it might be a good thing here. The government, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, singled out 8 and a half thousand euros, and 10,000 euros for the company Marko Marulic, and 15000 euros for this company, Marco Marulic, and 16 and a half thousand euros for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration for different associations in 2006. It's just a little bit. According to what I will now show a million 333 thousand kuna for the work of the Macedonian community in Croatia. According to that report in this report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which we discussed in this Assembly the other day through a variety of different support to associations, councils and everything, and certainly agree that this agreement will allow for greater isolation and must encourage our ministries to make the most of the work of associations, different forms of organisations not only Croats in Macedonia, but in all European countries. I agree with you that we should all work on it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5161	Thank you very much. I now call for the next individual debate of the esteemed representative, Mr Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I must say that I support this Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia, which provides for high standards of protection for the rights of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Macedonia, as well as for Macedonian minorities in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian people and the citizens of Macedonia, when we talk about the Macedonian state that was created by the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, then we must say that there is one long, long bond of friendship and understanding between these two peoples and since then there has been no state-law framework for these two peoples. I wouldn't remind you of the historical facts. I think we're all going to have enough history here to know very well what I'm talking about right now. After that, the founding of the countries of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Croatia, this friendship continued in the state frameworks, and here we are witnessing here today to ratify a proposal, namely a law that the Macedonian Parliament or the State has already ratified as they say. I also welcome the formation of a mixed committee of these two countries to monitor the implementation of this agreement which ensures I say high standards of protection of both minorities' rights in these two countries. This was about the fact that the Croatian community in Macedonia is very small, very active and powerful, and also this fact that the Macedonian Parliament has ratified this agreement says that our community in Macedonia is working, acting, participating in the social life and work of Macedonia in the places where they live from Skopje, Bitola, Struga, Stipa, etc. No incidents, no discriminatory outbursts, no animosities, no limitations, no suppression. It is clear that, according to the Constitution, the Croatian state cares about Croats outside Croatia, but it is clear that our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and representatives of the Government should also work on reciprocity in relation to these material gifts, i.e. the resources that Mr Lucin spoke about, so that our Croatian minority, or representatives of the minority, and survived and had a quality programme which a minority in one country can have and implement what is designed by the programme for the Croatian national minority in Macedonia. I am pleased to hear that the Croatian government has singled out almost 200 thousand euros in various forms for the work of the Macedonian national minority in Croatia and all those forms it has, cultural, educational and others, but it would also be nice to know that it is the same in the agreements of the Croatian government and representatives of the foreign ministry agreed in the Republic of Macedonia, clearly that we must say in this respect the opportunities of the Macedonian state. So in view of this, I say very active national minorities in these two countries, so Macedonians in Croatia and the Croatian national minorities in Macedonia, I think that these two minorities are the bridge of friendship and the supply of further friendship between these two peoples, the old European peoples and these two European states, which both expect soon to join and join the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5163	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Grubisic. One replica plate is up. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5164	Thank you very much. Just one line from a respected colleague. In international relations and relations between the two countries, the concept of reciprocity is good, it is where it can be, and can mostly be in most of the space, i.e. the area and introduced. However, when it comes to minority rights and national minorities, that is to say, if you read some conventions and directives, etc. about minority rights, you will see that it would not be wise and politically wise to insist on reciprocity. The right minority is one specific space where the concept of reciprocity is in international law, so if you want to and relations don't actually mention it at all and it wouldn't be good to mention it, and especially not to insist on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5165	Thank you very much. Replica response, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5166	Mr. Lucin's wrestling pretty on this one. Actually, at the aid of my debate. I was talking about economic reciprocity, helping national, not this policy, or I don't know what I'm talking about, but I'm talking about the possibilities for our national minority to be helped, and through the Macedonian budget, that's what we're helping Macedonia, and that's what this reciprocity is about, and no other reciprocity is about. I said clearly, within the scope of the Macedonian state, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5167	Thank you. And the last reported individual debate on this point is Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5168	Mr. Vice-President, I would like to join the debate on the proposal to confirm the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia, reminding that the protection of national minority rights as one of the important elements of this Agreement or perhaps even the most important, is actually one of the elements to measure the democracy and openness of every society. The standards that are established in relations with national minority communities are lacmus paper which testifies to society's maturity to consider its challenges as a common problem for all its citizens. The way that this is resolved by the proposal of this agreement, which is already paraphrased, signed and then ratified by the Chamber, I think it creates good grounds for the conditions in which national minority communities operate both in Croatia and in Macedonia are developing towards creating cultural autonomy and all of those elements that will allow the preservation of national identity. In this particular case, however, the position of minorities can be seen in the context of several centuries of cultural, political, economic and all other ties that bind on the one hand the Macedonian, on the other hand, Croatian people. It's not just a joint experience from 1918 to 90, or 91, but it's actually about much deeper not only political ties that have tied the history of the two peoples. Since the national romantic or romantic period, especially from the time of the affirmation and attitude of the modern Macedonian nation or the actions of the Miladinov brothers. But it's just a context, a historical context. What can and can be the relevant topic is the issue of the overall relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia, i.e. one more level of responsibility. The Croatian community in Macedonia differs from other Croatian communities in other countries in several criteria. Neither Macedonians in Croatia nor Croats in Macedonia, so-called The indigenous minorities, or minorities who have continued these countries for centuries, have already been formed over the last decades, formed and functioning. However, the second element that makes a difference is the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the situation in the region. The Republic of Macedonia is currently in a very delicate situation for several reasons. One is a general transition that touches political and economic frameworks. The second issue is identity because of the very geopolitical position of neighbours, the political references of their neighbours, as well as the names of the state, one problem we haven't met with, and Macedonia has been burdening practically since 91st and 92st, respectively. Croatia's responsibility is so much greater that the responsible political elite must accept the fact that a proactive regional policy is expected from Croatia. And that means, among other things, practical assistance to neighbors, practical assistance to all countries in the region that can ask us to do so and have something to gain from us. And in this particular case, help Macedonia. Help build institutions. Help in all those elements that burden the country in transition from corruption, economic relations, development, joint regional initiatives, today common membership and NATO alliances, as well as in the European Union. In this regard, it would not be good to advocate reciprocity in anything, not even in economic relations. The Republic of Croatia can and must play an active role, take advantage of the opportunity that is expected to be understood, because the Macedonian public, the Macedonian people and the state in Croatia see a friend, a more successful friend, a more advanced friend from whom they can learn and want to work with. In this context, I support the proposal for an agreement, and I hope that it will not reflect itself solely through the activities of the foreign ministry of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when it comes to the Croatian Community in Macedonia or through the National Minorities Council when it comes to the position and support of the Macedonian community in Croatia, but also that it will have effects on all others who can influence the creation of a proactive regional policy and active partnership with Macedonia. In this sense, I regret that this agreement is only being concluded in 2008 and that we know that the Macedonian community in Croatia is formed, established in an institutional sense in the early 1990s, and that Croatia is still in Macedonia in '96. So much could have happened before. And since I unfortunately must miss the opportunity to speak on behalf of the club, let me just say that representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support and welcome the ratification of this agreement in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5169	Thank you very much. This is why she was exhausted for individual discussion. Do you want a proposaler's representative in the end? Thank you very much. State Secretary Kuprešak is obviously satisfied with the level of understanding and support shown by the Parliament for the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Macedonia, and it is certain that the confirmation of this agreement does not stop this job to protect the rights of the minority but is just beginning. Thank you very much. Now, this one, I am concluding a debate on the final proposal for a law confirming this agreement. And we will vote on it as soon as the necessary conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5170	We are going to the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian Minority in the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that the Croatian Parliament with 131 votes for, therefore unanimously accepted this and the Final Proposal for Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5171	We continue with the next item of the agenda, which is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Institutions, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure – first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 20 The law is on the agenda by emergency procedure in the first and second readings. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the basic Regulation, the Rules of Procedure for this urgent procedure and amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate on this final bill was conducted by three parliamentary committees. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant or representative of the committee rapporteur like to take the floor? No, I don't. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. We have the State Secretary of the Central State Administration Mr Antun Palaric with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5172	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament! In the process of harmonising legislation with the legal acquis of the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also proposes a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Institutions with the Final Proposal for a law aimed at excluding from the Croatian legal system one discriminatory norm on the part of legal and natural persons. According to the applicable law of the institution in the Republic of Croatia, they were able to establish domestic natural and legal persons in different combinations together or as co-founders. But it was forbidden by foreign natural and legal persons. This law would remove this discriminatory norm and allow equal treatment for foreign and domestic natural and legal persons. Of course, that standard would be in force, it would enter into force by the degree of the Republic of Croatia in full membership of the European Union. Another important provision of this law is the acceleration of the administration. In fact, we have followed the recommendation of the HItroRez on deadlines because according to the applicable Law on Institutions, the founder of the institution is obliged to submit an act establishing a ministry in which the activity of the institution belongs and to ask for a solution on the assessment of the consent of that decision or other act establishing it with the law. And the ministry was obliged to make that decision within two months. We believe that deadlines should be shortened and we propose that the law prescribes obligations in order for the ministries to issue such solutions within one month or within a month. And by doing so, we will significantly shorten the time needed for the establishment of the facility. The rest of the law is about technical improvement of text. And on this text we have received two amendments from the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system which also nomotechnically correct the text. We accept them with gratitude. I ask the representatives to accept this law because it is part of harmonising our legislation with the acquis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5173	I thank the Secretary of State. And now, I've already asked if the committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor, so I got a negative answer. So we can open a debate about this point. For the discussion on behalf of the club, i.e. the first club to report to the SDP club and Mr. Representative Josip Leko. He's gone. The second club is for discussion on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Vladimir Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5174	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions with the Final Proposal of the Law. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports that bill, but more important than that, we are getting these amendments to the law. Basically, the secretary of state has mentioned what is changing and I would like to say a few things about how it reflects in practice. So, by enabling the establishment, we are actually first in line with legislation, we are allowing foreign natural or legal persons from the date of entry into the European Union to participate in the establishment of institutions in the Republic of Croatia. But more important than that, this efficiency which is achieved by cutting time from 60 to 30 days as a time in which the ministry must give consent either to an agreement or to certain situations in which it must give consent to the activities of the institution. Well, given that I participated in such a procedure the other day in practice, I can say that the County of Međimurska, along with the municipality of Donji Kraljec, established one institution with the aim of marking and in some way developing Rudolph Steiner's teaching in all those areas he dealt with. So these activities were from biodynamic food production, rehabilitation riding, eurythmia, Waldorf pedagogy, philosophy, anthroposophy, etc. In practice, it seemed so that the Registering Court in enrolment was simply in the definition of what we wanted to achieve in this institution to determine whether it was an education, whether it was a breeding horse in rehabilitation riding, or not to recognise the activity and in what way and which ministry to submit consent. The agreement took place by the Ministry of Agriculture. The ministries were declared incompetent, the ministries gave refusals or consent. However, in order for the total activity to be entered for each ministry, it took sixty days to add up eight months to the phase to meet the requirements for enrolment in the court register of one institution. It is a practical effect of applying this amendment to the law. Thirdly, in this situation, the Republic of Croatia is equated as the founder, i.e. formally introduced into the law that, together with the units of local self-government and with natural and legal persons, an institution is established but also extends this activity in a way that prevents speculation in the establishment of an institution in such a way that one of them is responsible for the obligations and the other uses of institutions for their own benefit, so it is common to the law and to this situation where Croatia is involved in the establishment of an institution provided that one of the parties to the agreement is not to be excluded and thus to protect it from the adverse consequences of liability. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this proposal, and especially because of these circumstances, we believe it contributes to improving the current law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5175	Thank you, Mr. Representative. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first reported representative is Ms. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5176	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen representing the Croatian Parliament. Here, I must express my satisfaction in fact that the text of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Institutions is in front of us, even though I will not say anything new that we have not heard at this time. However, I do believe that it is time for these amendments to be adopted and complemented because, among other things, the purpose of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Institutions is to address a discriminatory provision that would be opposed to the acquis of the European Union. Since the position of foreign natural and legal persons with domestic natural and legal persons is equalised as one of the planned medium-term measures. The shorter period of two months, of course, for the establishment of a solution for one month, is going towards the acceleration of the entire establishment, the procedure for the establishment of institutions, and in the case of the establishment of several founders, e.g. the Republic of Croatia and one or more units of regional or local self-government, is much shorter. Additional funds, of course, that all of us can enjoy in the budget are not necessary. So here I am actually thinking that this is also an additional quality of the purpose of the existence of institutions, of course, of the users, and in order to support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of laws in the emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5177	Thank you. The next debate was announced by the distinguished representative Mrs. Susana Bilic Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5178	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As much as it seems to someone that the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Institutions with only five short articles of amendments and additions does not require a great debate personally, I believe, that it deserves it for the following reasons. First of all, this law carries the law of P.Z.E. The proposal for a law of Europe because this legislative proposal is in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and is one of those laws for which the Croatian Government has committed itself to aligning itself with the acquiss of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe during this year, 2008. It is indisputable that by adopting these amendments and the additions of the Law on Institutions, we are taking another step towards the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Especially after the European Commission's announcement that Croatia can complete negotiations by September next year to achieve the strategic goal of the Republic of Croatia. The second reason why I believe that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions deserves to be discussed is the fact that we are changing and supplementing it today, in line with the European legislation passed in 1993. And who in these past 15 years, except for two corrections, had no alterations and additions. In addition to the fact that Croatia has good laws. And the third, but not less important reason why I want to point out is the positive effect of the working body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a special unit for the HItroRez, which is suggesting the simplification of the Law on Institutions in the sense of increasing the effectiveness of the activities of the relevant ministries in the procedures for the assessment of the conformity of the agreement decision, i.e. the Treaty establishing an institution with the law until now, the prescribed deadline of 60 days in the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the Law is reduced to 30 days. From the fact that of the five proposed articles of amendments and additions to this Law in one article, only one article harmonizes with the legal gains of the European Union, three improves, one of which we harmonize in a termological manner, and one of us determines its entry into force. I would like to stress that the Republic of Croatia has good laws and that it is ready to meet the conditions of negotiations and join full membership in the European Union. For these reasons, I support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law with the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5179	Thank you very much. It is now up to the honourable representative Ivo Jospipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5180	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. First of all, the law is to support, it's to improve the law, and there's really nothing to object to. However, here are two principles, one that is connected perhaps because of the change that has taken place and the other in principle about institutions because here is this united debate, according to the Rules of Procedure, also focuses on specific provisions and on general issues. First, if what's proposed is the result of the HlTRORes work, then I have to say, otherwise, from tracking HlTRORes, how it's worked so far, we should say, at least it seems to me that we don't need him in particular. And otherwise, HITRORez has so far produced very little results in my court, and what he has given, was more like lobbying efforts than it was like legal professional work that should result in improvement of Croatian legislation. As for other principles, it is related to the Law itself, because this may have been an opportunity to consider the concept of an institution in Croatian law. Namely, the institution of an institution that does not normally have all European countries, as we do, is designed as an organisational form through which citizens of interested legal and physical persons will serve some public interest, cultural, educational, health, etc. As such an institution is not meant to be profitable, therefore, it is not in principle designed to make money through that form, but is primarily designed as a form of satisfying public interest. In this regard, of course, the tax and other positions of such a form of organisation are both tax and other. And we have, unfortunately, a phenomenon today that the institution has evolved in some way, that because certain activities, for certain activities, are exclusively related to the institutions, so for some activities you can't do entrepreneurially and ensure that you function through a company, let's say that it would be interesting for me to consider the HItroRez. You have a situation, we have a situation that some activities cannot achieve the flow of capital needed to develop this activity or play masquerade that some institutions defacto function as companies, defacto function as companies, and in fact they are shown in both public and through accounting and other relevant activities as non-profit organisations. Today we will have a law which is such a nature and which seems to me to be partially blocked by activity and is partly a masculine in the Croatian legal order. But here were the very general remarks, I think the State Office, proposing this law did a good job, the changes are to accept, I will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5181	Thank you very much. I call upon the honourable representative, Mr. Joseph Lek, for individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honourable government representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, of course this is an opportunity to talk about the Law on Institutions as applicable in the Republic of Croatia. So then to say that the range of HItroReza was really big, how big were the scissors when the project was promoted. Namely, HItroRez announced that the application must be resolved within 30 days for the establishment of an institution when requested by the competent ministry. That large range of HItroReza was and was designed only in favour of the benefit of saying strangers. Because the Administrative Procedure Act knows the deadline and obliges the administration to resolve the party's request within 30 days, in particular the request documented. And 60 days is if facts are to be established in the process. This range of HItroReza is really of great importance to us because it has really increased Croatia's competitiveness in the European Union because the request for resolution, for the establishment of an institution, has been shortened from 60 days to 30 days. However, here is something more important, what counterpart Josipovic said by law are prescribed activities for which an institution can be established either public, any institution without this public. And this abuse already bothers the citizens of Croatia. I am convinced that it will also bother the Croatian economy when founders from abroad appear. Here's a dramatic example. The establishment is also a pharmacy, and now, of course, as soon as the borders are opened, it's gonna be a pharmacy all you want and the next law is about privatising a pharmacy. The institution is also on the island of knowledge Kolocep and therefore received a concession on Kolocep, and all newspapers in Croatia and the public are having fun as the tasks of the institution are realized. Are we satisfied with the implementation of the Kolochep knowledge island task? Is there a response from the state or government as to how the purchase contract is realised, or the concession? It's an institution. Therefore, it has a legally established activity and the law requires care for the realization of tasks... We don't have an answer to that, but we do have a H.I.T.R.R. to cut 30 days as top-notch range. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we add this, the HITRORez dropped the opportunity not only to discuss the essence, but even formally to harmonise the law proposed here to change with the Constitution and with the Law on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government. He didn't do it either. That high-speed cut. And another note. Indeed, the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia should, when sending materials to the Croatian Parliament, sign that it has implemented the harmonisation of the draft law on amendments and additions to other laws which are in force, especially if the law is amended and complemented. So, in essence, I have no objection to the change proposed by this law, but its scope is minor in relation to the obligations that the Law on Institutions obliges both the Parliament and the Government. So, I would like to say that the whole law must be designed differently and differently to implement the Law on Institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5183	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5184	In his discussion, my colleague Leko mentioned HITRORez. He was talking about the relatively weak range of action I would personally appreciate as a pretty PR action. If we go to the HItroRez website, we see that the latest news about the implementation of the HItroRez recommendation dates back to November 12, 2007 and says that, the recommendation of the HItroRez is to abolish 425 regulations, i.e. simplify the 374 regulations and that this should all be over by February 2008, i.e. it should already be over. Therefore, it is not the reach of the HItroRez that is weak only in the application of this law, but it is weak and generally. They were all just not fast and obviously it was part of a pre-election PR action that intended to create impressions, not really solve the problem of overcrowding, overcrowding and excessive overlapping and complications in state regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5185	Thank you. Mr. Leco's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5186	My colleague Lugarić and your task is to point out for the sake of the Croatian public how effective the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme was, and we are the task I hope we have done well today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5187	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5188	Thank you, Mr. President, dear secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The discussion, i.e. the debate on the Law on Institutions, or on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Institutions, given that the final draft of the Law is an opportunity to talk in general about institutions, the supervision of the work of institutions, and in particular with regard to the amendment of the article of the present final proposal, how the institution can establish both domestic and foreign natural and legal persons. Namely, what about the supervision of the work of the facilities? Whether institutions in one way or another have become beyond the spirit and meaning of the law, of companies, of companies and of companies and of those capital because of inadequate control. But another more bizarre thing might be an example of how people's property is being held. In fact, here's these tiny changes that aren't exactly tiny since we're giving power to a legal person so that a foreign natural and legal person can start an institution, then these more controls have to be better. Of course we don't have anything against it. Also to shorten this two-month deadline in a month. But by celebrating the HlTRORez on this example that because of the special unit, please, a special unit has been formed. It kind of sounds like it's very operational and so on, but it was just one pi ar. In the end, it would have been defeated if the HitroRez, however, had gone into glorious ruin. That this HitroRez also dealt with those security mechanisms which are as much as the rights of workers and rights of citizens through certain laws, those rights that were incorporated to ensure that there is also a special task of the HItroRez not to be cut. Well, then we've got nothing to regret about that Heathress. How does it work to control our facilities? What individual ministries do that are authorised under the law by the Central Authority of the Administration. To remind ourselves of what the article says first about institutions. The establishment is established to carry out the activities of education and education, science, culture, information, sport, physical culture, technical culture, child care, health care, social care, care for persons with disabilities and other activities. All the noblest activities, and then Article 5, says that such an institution can also be established as a public institution whose work is then public. You see one example that has dragged its history since 1999. The Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb founded the Institute of Brain Research as a public institution, and the Institute founded the "Neuron" Polyclinic, and the polyclinic against the Law on Institutions brings a statute no one reacts to today, where the profit retains itself. So the Founder was the Faculty of Medicine, and according to the Law on Institutions, all profits go to the founder who then further invests these funds for these necessary activities. But what's going on? So to such a statute that is contrary to the law no one reacts, the Central State Office does not react, does not react to the competent ministry, but what we see in the past budget and in this budget, is that huge funds through the resolution ministry, so in a specific case, they went right through the public institution to this polyclinic. How about that? Then why these facilities? Let them build up nicely with their capital as a company of capital, so let them do a nice business, not the state's money. But it's all covered by such noblest activities. So who for such projects and we've all raised our hand in unanimity here, so who wouldn't raise a hand for such projects that save people's lives. You see these means last year, so for one project like this, even though it didn't win the contest, but it's a long story, but it's a vast amount of magnetic resonance resources. And now our citizen, so these funds were out of the budget, has to pay hard if he wants to be examined on that machine. And that is why when the legislator, or when the Croatian Parliament was still far away in 93, passed that law, he suffered some changes in 97th and 99th, and now it is changing, but the issue of supervision, the issue of control, even though it is as much in the existing law whose provisions are not changed, has not suffered any changes, unfortunately no one is controlling it, no one is asking for it. It is already on such a danger, i.e. what is happening, this is just one small example, the attention of both counterpart Josipovic and his colleague Leko. Therefore now, on our own and now when we empower foreign natural and legal persons to establish institutions that are perfectly normal in view of Croatia's approach to the European Union, that supervision of institutions is strengthened, not that this is not respected even by the law even further corrupted in 93 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5189	Thank you. We have two corrections. First is Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5190	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Anticevic said that with this bill, the state property is being held. In these words, you told your colleagues, and that's an incorrect quote, you even said you'd say one example, you didn't mention it. So you made a completely incorrect statement, and if you don't realize that this is really about harmonising with European legislation and our drive to go to the European Union that you showed in the day before yesterday, then I really don't see any other reason than some policy that you put out in that way, and you said, you said, and you can take a look at it in a phonogram, that this bill makes you a pub of state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5191	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5192	A colleague was injured by the Rules of Procedure, provision of Article 209 in conjunction with Article 214. In fact, he was correcting what I didn't say and he even said I didn't set an example. I don't think I could have detailed that example in my debate. So the law does not... but does not apply it and I have several times drawn attention to it and apostrophe of the fact that the law applies, and to my own provision of Article 64, supervision of the work of the institution. Because right through the Institute of Institutions or public institutions, a colleague can really be incinerated, and people's property is being held.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5193	Madam MPs, you mentioned the innion of state property and Mr. MP claimed the opposite of you, so he corrected your incorrect claim in his opinion, and you again called for something. I was hoping that you, as a respected lawyer and former justice minister, would help to properly apply the institutes prescribed by the Rules of Procedure in Parliament, but you are constantly showing and violating it. Correction of an incorrect quote, Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague, among other things, incorrectly quoted, as saying, "no one controls the institutions." And this incorrect allegation of hers I think should be corrected and done for her entire debate which just went into it as if the system... legal personality on the functioning in the Republic of Croatia something outside the law, something that no one controls, something that is too full of any illegal or illegal actions. In the sense of this correction, I would only say that each institution has its own administrative board, director, financial and any other control in terms of the submission of financial and any other annual reports, so that all the institutions in our legal system are very well controlled and as regards finance and activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5195	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Mr Antun Palaric will address it in a final fashion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5196	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I thank everyone for the debate, especially those who support the adoption of this law because this may be a small step, but every step towards harmonisation of legislation is recorded and is welcome. More has been said today than the proposal for this law, I will be allowed, a little bit, to look back on what is said, so that the impression in the Croatian public about the functioning of institutions in the Republic of Croatia does not remain wrong. The task is the Croatian State to strengthen state institutions, but it is also the task of the Croatian State and Government to create a space for the development of the non-profit sector, I would say. Croatia has also achieved envious results in this regard. We are a free country where political parties, trade unions, associations, foundations, foundations and institutions are freely established. And the possibility of establishing institutions has particularly come to terms at local level because our units of local self-government and regional self-government have exploited the right that the law allows and arranged a large part of social life outside the policy area, left it to special institutions from kindergartens, schools, museums, libraries and all that makes life quality in local environments. Of course, in the heat of the creation of Croatian modern legislation, we sometimes prenormise the system, and therefore a special unit of HItroRez was set up to review the quantity and quality of the regulations that are in force, in particular sublegal acts and to find, detect and make a proposal to remove obstacles that hinder or slow down legal and political life in the Republic of Croatia, in particular the rights of citizens, particularly economic activities. And every proposal by the HITRORez authorities has been reviewed. I'm speaking now on behalf of the Central State Administration Office. We worked with them. We have estimated that according to this law rock lex specialis compared to the General Administrative Procedure Act this deadline can be reduced, that the capacities of the ministries are so administrative that they can maintain this deadline. And we want to force the administration to work faster and better. We have done a lot in the process of reform so far from the transparency of the work of the public authority to the establishment of state administration to official legislation and a lot of things. And now we want to work harder to raise the quality of work in the state service, raise knowledge and strengthen discipline. And this rule of deadlines actually means strengthening discipline in the authorities of the state administration. And we want our officers to immediately take it to work and respect the deadlines. We believe that in addition to harmonising with European legislation and reducing deadlines, institutions in the Republic of Croatia will contribute faster to establishing them, all in order to raise the quality of life in the local environment by their activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5197	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. He'll make up his mind as I announced yesterday. So please once more clubs at 13 o'clock and 30 minutes we'll start voting in the Parliament. So we won't interrupt the session because boredom was the custom of being here at 3:00. I don't think there's any reason for that, but to do it further. Thank you. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Institutions. It's an emergency procedure. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system which the applicant accepted and are an integral part of this bill. I therefore vote on the final draft law with the amendment accepted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This law was passed unanimously with 131 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5200	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal in front of you is an amendment to the law and a supplement on biocidal products. This Croatian Parliament passed that law last year on the basis of a '98 European Union Directive. A year. In line with the changes that take place in European legislation, which has been adopted after the adoption of this law and new Directive No 47 of 2007, this is proposed to amend and in domestic legislation to improve and keep track of changes at European level. In a few short lines, just to explain what would change. Biocidals, as more people in the profession know, are agents in which one of the ingredients of these agents is therefore a living organism. Is this about viruses, mushrooms or other types of micro-grantism and as such deserves in relation to the Chemical Act its special law which this Croatian House has passed. For stories in the everyday household, several forms of biocidal products are used for sanitary purposes. In order to ensure transparency and improvement of this legislation in the changes that we propose, it is proposed that the decision on the level of costs for placing biocidal products on the market is not done at the level of the Minister's decision, but to make a regulation which will show transparently what are all the structures and elements of the calculation for the costs of placing the authorisation, the marketing authorisation holder. The second part refers to the fact that the Biocidal Code provided for transport, and since it has entered into force since the adoption of that law and the Law on the transport of dangerous substances, this law in that part is harmonised because the transport means biocidal products and chemical ingredients are resolved by the law in question. Of the third things that change in these things about biocidal products, the part is that as biocides, this law was not only applied to medical aids. However, for reasons of clarification in the European Union where the need other than medical assistance has been demonstrated, a category of in vitro medical diagnostic aids is added. The proposal for this law belongs to the proposals for laws that will become more and more final as we approach the European Union in this way, following changes at European level, we will change very likely and basic legislation if it is in the interest of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5201	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5202	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Preparations Act. This law is also a harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and the implementation of the Directive of the European Union. In 2007, we adopted the Biocidal Products Act, which regulates the placing on the market and use of biocidal products in the Republic of Croatia, conducts procedures for the inclusion of active substances on the list allowed for use in biocidal products, evaluation of biocidal products, testing of their effectiveness with particular emphasis on the correct use of biocidal products. When placing biocidal products on the market, we primarily think about ensuring a high level of safety in order to protect life, human health and the environment. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the preservation of nature and man is one of the greatest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the amendments and additions to the Council Directive on the harmonisation of the legislation of Member States on active medical aids for implanting, on medical aids and biocidal products, it is necessary to transpose the same provisions into national legislation in such a way that the Directive does not apply to in vitro medical diagnostic aids. The same is the area of transport, the transport of dangerous chemicals. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption by the Minister of Health of the Regulation on the level of costs related to the procedure for granting authorisation for placing on the market and the inclusion of active substances on one of the lists of substances and the placing on the market of biocidal products. It is a matter of greater transparency in determining those costs and greater availability to the public. Finally, as the law states, biocidal products of the active substance and preparations containing one or more active substances are made in the form in which they are delivered to the user and whose intention is to destroy, deter, make harmless, prevent or control any harmful organism in a chemical or biological way, as micro-organisms, viruses and fungi are included in a special way acting on the organism. There is a need for further caution, so if you need to change and supplement this law. This law is indeed an example of the Republic of Croatia catching one pace in compliance with the legislation of the European Union as well as in amending certain directives but indeed in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5203	Thank you. Individually. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5204	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. According to the definition of a colleague, Caparin's biological preparations are active substances and preparations containing one or more active substances produced in the form in which it is delivered to a user whose purpose is to destroy, deter, make harmless, prevent or control any harmful organism in a chemical or biological way. They are classified as lists, lists 1a and 1b according to the permitted quantities of the active substance or of course the risks. Injuries. Of course, the very definition shows that they are of course beneficial to people but can also be harmful, and accordingly it is necessary and to put under control what the Croatian Parliament did to the 2007 Law in which the European Union Directives of 1998 were incorporated, and this would end the story that the European Parliament and the Council did not adopt a new directive in 2007. And of course, according to this, it is necessary to include the same thing in national legislation as we are going to do and I believe that we will have a consensus on the good news that we have since yesterday from Brussels. And so, we must further say what are the changes that will significantly improve that area, as Mr. Secretary of State said. So far, market inclusion has been regulated by the Minister's decision and it would now be necessary to adopt a regulation on the same. In that part, since 1 January 2008, the Law on the transport of dangerous substances also needs to be incorporated into this law in order to regulate it in a quality and good way. And that third thing that was said is what it doesn't apply to, so with this novelty that Mr. Secretary of State said. I believe this law will certainly improve this area and, of course, in the same part, bring us closer... The European Union we're going to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5205	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act. It was also an emergency procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in favor of this law? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you very much. This law was unanimously passed with 131 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5208	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants stems from the need to regulate the area of production and placing on the market of agricultural seed, agricultural fruit material as the need to regulate the system of recognition of agricultural plant varieties in a way that will allow the smooth creation of new domestic and newly created varieties. Overall, in view of the provisions of this law, the ultimate objective is to regulate the system for ensuring a smooth supply of the market for agricultural, reproductive seed and fruit materials for food production. Since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, the first law governing this area has been passed by the Croatian Parliament in late 2007, it was the Law on Seed, Fruit Material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties from 97. It had to be gradually amended to ensure gradual compliance with the European Union directives. In 2005, a new Law on Seeds and Fruit Material was passed. It has implemented a fundamental harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European legislation, in particular with the work of the main eleven directives governing this area. This law has been implemented and 11 sublegal acts have been developed and published so far for its implementation. The preparation of these sublegislative acts in addition to those basic 11 Directives shall include provisions and 23 other implementing acts, badges and decisions concerning this area. The proposed Law, i.e. Amendments and laws of the Seed Act, fruit material, the recognition of varieties, the agricultural plant, seeks to regulate the text of the law which will allow the implementation and additional alignment with the changes that have taken place since the adoption of the Law in 2005. Part of the provision that is possible to be changed more frequently is deleted from the legal test. In most cases, it is made up of provisions governing technical requirements and is delegated to the Minister for the purpose of regulating the regulations under the law. This facilitates the procedure for the necessary changes and coordination when the text of the European directives is amended. Amendments, certain provisions and exceptions to the rules laid down by the provisions of the Law are now closely and strictly established and such an option is necessary to ensure. Following this, we highlight the main parts of the proposed amendments and the addition of laws that are new in relation to the existing production, certification and control arrangements in the system of seminary, distribution and recognition of varieties. The Office's competences have been changed, as well as the entries for the management of the list of varieties of the Republic of Croatia, the national sort lists and the recommended sort lists and the register of... transferred to the Ministry's jurisdiction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we keep fit, given that the European Commission and each individual Member State must report on any changes that occur in the Croatian Variety List. The possibility of exceptions to the provision is introduced for all agricultural rebduction materials, for example, the institution shall issue seed certificates, or fruit material, the possibility that for certain categories of seeds, i.e. vegetables is a category of standard, small packaging and certain categories of... Plants, small packages, A packaging, and for decorative plants and plant transplants vegetables, I made printing certificates on packaging, issued accompanying documents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is possible that certain categories of seed and fruit material can only be marked with a manufacturer’s certificate. The competent authority to determine the equivalence for imported seed and fruit material, i.e. whether the system of production, standard and control at the level to guarantee the same quality as the seed fruit material produced under this Act from third countries has been transferred from the Office to the Ministry. How these issues will be addressed after entering the European Union, at European Commission level, to establish that competence in the Government's body and technical and professional verification will be carried out by the Institute as an expert body. In part of the Law governing the fruit material, there is a clearer, more regulated issue of monitoring the production and process of determining the quality and needs of analysis of fruit material for which the responsibility is now exclusively carried out by the Office for the Protection of Plants in Agriculture and Forestry of the Republic of Croatia. Provisions concerning the variety lists and the recognition of varieties have also been simplified with the aim of transferring the provisions governing the technical requirements for this power to the Minister to regulate this by sublegal regulations. The provisions on determining the costs to be given more freedom to the Minister to prescribe the level of costs have also been amended, with the aim of gradually reducing the costs paid by the Institute to carry out its concessions, and the financing of the Institute is gradually being passed on to the budgetary basis. In the rest, the part of the execution, in the rest of the change, are technical and normotechnical corrections of the text, so I ask the honourable parliamentary representatives to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5209	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5210	Mr President, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seeds, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural herbs at the 3rd session of 13 March 2008, with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 6 March 2008. That proposal for a law was discussed by the Committee in the capacity of the home working body and in accordance with the provisions of Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following the opening statement by the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee supported the proposal from the Proposer to adopt this Act by an urgent procedure. In the debate on the Proposal for that Law, the members of the Committee supported its adoption, as it continues to normative harmonisation in the field of seed farming, the recognition of varieties, agricultural plants, and the fruit material with decisions and directives of the European Union. However, in the debate raised doubts as to the origin... the selection in the manner referred to in point 14 of Article 2 of the proposed Law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Seed, Fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5211	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5212	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Seed Act, fruit material and recognition of the variety of agricultural plants with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Assembly with the Emergency Procedure Proposal. The seminary and distribution sector in agricultural production has a significant place in the total Croatian economy, which is indicated not only by a high level of expertise and knowledge about genetics and fertilisation but also by the amount of seed and fruit material produced in the Republic of Croatia. So in the past year, according to the report of the Department of Seeding and Dispersion, about 47 thousand tonnes of wheat were produced and declared, 9 thousand tonnes of barley, 7 thousand tonnes of corn, 6 thousand tonnes of soybeans, 3 thousand tons of potatoes, and about 3 million seedlings of fruit species and about 7 million vines. On the market of the Republic of Croatia as well as on most production areas in the Republic of Croatia, under wheat, barley, corn and soybean are the most represented varieties of domestic processing houses, which is partly the consequence of the country's measures which have been associated with the use of certified seeds and fruit material, which is aware that quality seed and quality fruit material are the first link in the chain of sustainable and profitable agricultural production. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants stems from the need to regulate the area of production and placing on the market of agricultural seed, agricultural fruit material and seeds and fruit material of the decorative plant. The draft law also stems from the need to regulate the system of recognition of agricultural plant varieties in a way that will allow for the smooth creation of new domestic but also the establishment and introduction of new varieties of the member states, of course, provided that processing rights are maintained. And the ultimate objective of this bill is to regulate a system for ensuring a smooth supply of markets with quality agricultural reproductive materials for food production. The first law that has tried to regulate our legislation in seminary and dissipation since the establishment of an independent Republic of Croatia Parliament came to an end in 1997. However, because of the non-compliance with the provisions and regulations of the European Union, the law is amended in 2005. This law has implemented the fundamental harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European legislation, in particular with part of the basic 11 directives governing this area. This law has been in force since 1 January 2008, and for its implementation 11 sublaws have so far been drawn up and published in which, in addition to those 11 basic directives, provisions 23 remain implementing acts of any directive, any decision of the European Union. So either the council or the commission. This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants seeks to fully comply with the legislation of the European Union. In the process of preparing sub-legislative acts that have been harmonised, as I said in this 23 Directive or decision of the European Union, the need for the existing provisions to be complemented in part and partially amended with the aim of implementing additional compliance with the changes that have taken place since the adoption of the law in 2005. Then, that part of the provision, means that they regulate technical requirements, and it will be more frequent to change it to the minister to regulate it by means of a sublegal act which would facilitate the procedure and compliance with the EU directives that we see as being frequently amended. But also to amend some provisions and determine the exceptions that are necessary to ensure. As regards the organisation and jurisdiction of individual bodies under the proposal of the new law, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has been designated as the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for the implementation of this law and for administrative oversight under this law. The Institute for Seeding and Dispersion is a central authority in the process of certification of seeds and fruit material, recognition of varieties of agricultural plants, inspection of the jurisdiction of this law, having a agricultural inspection carried out by the control of semen and fruit material on the market and a phytosanitary inspection carrying out controls on imports of agricultural reproductive material at the border and carrying out checks on fruit material in production. The proposal for this Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants addresses the issue of compliance with the aquis at the level of the legal act, and, in addition, with regard to the nomotechnical arrangements and the organisation of the provisions, it has succeeded in simplifying how most of the provisions of the relevant Directives of the European Union could be addressed and later maintained at the level of sublegal acts. In the proposed changes and additions, we hold that the main news is well highlighted in relation to the existing production, certification and control systems of seeding, distribution and recognition of varieties. These changes were made to the competences of the institutions, and the registration and keeping of the variety list of the Republic of Croatia, the national variety lists and the recommended varieties lists, as well as the maintenance register, as well as the register of seed suppliers and the registers of suppliers of fruit material, have been transferred to the jurisdiction of the ministry. It is then possible to exempt from the provision to issue seed certificates or fruit certificates for the entire agricultural reproductive material of the Institute. Thus the possibility was opened that for certain categories of seed producers, i.e. for agricultural propagating material of decorative plants, I am a print certificate manufacturer on packaging and issuing the accompanying document. It is also possible to mark certain categories of seed and fruit material only with a manufacturer’s certificate. The following news is the authority to determine the identity of imported seed and fruit material transferred from the office to the ministry. The practice of the European Union to establish this competence to the Authority of the Government and technical and professional assistance to verify and execute the Institute as an expert body. The next news is that a clearer issue of control over the production and quality-finding process and the need for analysis of the fruit material in the section that regulates the fruit material is regulated. Provisions concerning the sort lists and the recognition of varieties have also been simplified with a view to transferring powers to the minister in order to regulate it by sublegal acts. Provisions on the setting of costs to be given more freedom to the minister have also been amended to prescribe the level of costs with the aim of gradually reducing the costs of the institutions that are normally charged and to move the funding of the institute to the state budget. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants with the final proposal of the law, as this proposed law first removes the established non-compliance of our legislation with the legislation of the European Union in the section of seeding and distribution, as well as the recognition of new varieties of agricultural plants. A performance of operations in that segment shall be regulated and in accordance with the conditions and criteria applicable in the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5213	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5214	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister of the Croatian Government, dear colleagues and colleagues. This law that we agree on is certainly one of the important laws and the seed law, fruit material and the recognition of varieties is for our country that has developed agriculture one of the key ones, because it's where it comes from and production. According to how we have seeds, we'll also have production. Croatia was a significant producer with its productions. This production was based on high - quality genetic material produced in their own institutes or in agricultural combinations that had their own professional services. The development of genetics and geneticists that created their own varieties, we had the contributions that were, could be measured by Europeans. The famous Slavonian-Baranja technology in the production of cereals was also based on this quality genetic material and varieties produced by us. Today, 850 thousand hectares of heated surfaces in the Republic of Croatia, and according to the Government programme it should be 950 thousand, it certainly takes large and high-quality seeds. 570,000 hectares of grain, most corn and wheat, olives about 110 thousand, sugar tails 35 thousand hectares, feed plants that will be produced at 100,000 hectares and vegetables per 35 thousand hectares must require one quality seed material. The needs for fruity material are also high, because today in Croatia we also have 46,000 hectares of orchards and 31 thousand hectares of vineyards that seek and rebuild, but also according to the programs are going further. Encouraging these productions is evident, but also needs for quality seeds and fruit material also if we want quality and safe production. To do so normally, we must also have modern laws that will allow us to be compatible with Europe but also to protect our own production and varieties obtained in our institutes. Today it is evident that in the production and transport of seed material we have the condition that the imports of seeds in 2006 were in the cereals I speak only this segment, worth $3.8 million for 1421 tonnes, and in 2007, that imports rose over 3,000 tonnes or over $9 million, or the index was 236. At the same time it was exported from the Croatian grain seed 5 thousand 400 tonnes with a value of 6.6 million dollars, i.e. 2007. Five thousand 800 worth 7.6 million or an index is 115. This shows that exports of seeds from Croatia are on the rise, index is 115 but is also imports of index 236. However, if we look at these relations, that is why I have also cited quantitatively, with less resources nearly twice as many tonnes of seed goods from Croatia have been exported. One word we import expensive seeds, and we export cheaply. The announcement that this spring seed item will be more expensive by 20% should be changed and that should be considered. That is why the need to bring this law into line with the legislation of Europe is unquestionable and therefore changes and additions should be accepted. However, implementing acts that must be in line with the material contained in the 23 Implementing Directive and European legislation must be acceptable and enforceable from our legislation. Provisions laying down technical requirements for the most part, as the minister said, will be with certain acts, sublegal acts signed by the minister. I now consider this place a point that allows for the rapid conductivity of changes and changes in sublegal regulation adapted to European changes. However, seed producers in the Republic of Croatia do not have any objections to the law but are just afraid of these sublegal acts so that they will not be in a worse position, that our production is placed in a more irregular position, that is, to allow unquality seeds or fruit material to come into our fields. This is because often it happens to us and that the law is good, and sublegal acts are passed in such a way that they are not enforceable or that they are worse or more harmful to our producers. That is why the question of the recognition of our varieties, but also of the foreign ones, must be under quality control. Certificates must be certified, certificates must have their own professional background and the possibility of certification of seed and fruit material by producers that are in principle exceptional must be under occasional control so that we do not have a poor seed material or a lower quality of genetic material introduced or some diseases in our fields which the final result may have a lower yield in production. And finally, I think that we should support law-making, but I warn that he and the implementing acts that follow should create the possibility that our science, our geneticists create such varieties and fruit material that will allow quality seed for our agriculture rather than uncontrolled imports, rather than prevent uncontrollable imports that would bring us the destruction of domestic production. We are a country that has the resources to produce sufficient amounts of food for its population, and we also think it might be for export. Unfortunately, we import over $2 billion of food and let us not allow ourselves to, and based on our production, import the end of our production that has a quality with which we can only meet our goal of agrarian production. Imports should be in the function of quality, new varieties, but it should also be thought about our production, which is certainly one of the highly developed European frameworks and we need to continue to value and cherish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5215	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5216	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs! This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Seeds and Fruit Material and recognising the variety of agricultural plants is in line with the legislation of the European Union. Therefore, in addition to this work material, there is a declaration of its compliance with the acquiss of the European Union and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. From the independence and establishment of the Republic of Croatia until 1997, this area was governed by a law taken over by the former state. In late '97. The Croatian Parliament passed a law regulating this area as a seed, fruit material and recognition of the variety of agricultural plants. That '97 law. has dealt well with this part because it has for the first time regulated relations in this problem in the Republic of Croatia, mainly in seminary and wasteland. But since everything is subject to change, and so are the laws, this law should be followed by the regulations of the European Union. bring it into line with European Union directives. In 2005, a new Law on Seeds and Fruit Material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties was adopted. This law harmonizes our legislation with European legislation. And this law is in line with 11 European directives and has been in force since 1 January 2008. I said that 11 European directives were incorporated into the 2005 law, and sublaws were incorporated in addition to those 11 directives and provisions 23 remained implementing acts. During the period from 2005 to today, the conditions for this area to be fully in line with EU legislation have been met. In addition to harmonisation of the law, sublegal acts should also be harmonised in a way that is partly complemented and partially amended because certain amendments have also been made to the European Union directives and should be agreed with them. What is particularly important for this bill is that those provisions which are supposed to be amended more frequently are deleted, and the power of the minister is given to regulate this by sublegal regulations, which in one way gives elasticity to the law and its implementation. For example, when a directive of the European Union is amended in the future, this law will not need to be re-entered into this House of Commons and Amendments, but will be regulated by the Minister by means of a sublegal act and thus speed up the transmission of European rules in the Republic of Croatia itself, which is extremely important. The novelty in this bill is that in a new way, it regulates production, certification and control of seed systems, distribution and recognition of new varieties in relation to current practice. In Article 5 of this proposal, the ministry's powers are extended and what the Ministry's Department of Seeding and Dispersion was doing until yesterday, according to the new law, will only be managed by the ministry. So the Ministry will run the registration and keeping of the list of varieties of the Republic of Croatia, national varieties lists and recommended variety lists, as well as the register of seed suppliers and the register of suppliers of fruit material, which is very important for the purpose of reporting to the European Commission and individual Member States for the purpose of changing the list of varieties of the Republic of Croatia. I can still say that I support the adoption of this law with the hope that it will make business much easier for those entities for which it is brought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5217	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5218	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Not really a question, he is a replica of a colleague of Vukic's on this so far part at all. There is no question about the proposal of this law. We'll give him a clear voice. It is in this very way that our legislation is actually in line with the legislation of the European Union. I may have been a little prompted by what Mr. Minister said, which is the problem in the smooth supply of seed of prescribed quality. Just because I come from an area that is known as a agricultural area and also a vineyard or fruit plant, I would warn of something that should actually be combined with this, which should be considered, which is now the time when the seeds are bought and the vines, vegetables, etc. are bought, and that is exactly what is uninterrupted but disrupted supplying these seeds of quality determined, because from some areas that are very close to us, there come questionable qualities and seeds and vines and vines and peaches and apples etc. And then disaster situations happen that then we have a result that people come to units of local self-government wasting declaring elemental disasters, then our Niko Rebic becomes unpopular, because he can't give as much damage as it does. So, I'd like to suggest a higher education of people by this problem. Meeting people with which these are seeds that come from certain areas that do not correspond to the quality and this prescribed legislation on seed and seed production and which appear on our market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5219	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5220	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As you know, this is the third proposal for a law on seed, fruit material and the recognition of varieties of agricultural plants. Also for the first time this High House is as we've heard in '97. In 2005, a new law was passed in order to comply with European Union directives. It has implemented a fundamental harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European legislation, in particular with part of the main 11 directives governing this area. The adoption of the proposal for a new law would remove the non-compliance of our legislation with European Union legislation in the seminary and wasteland segment and the recognition of new varieties of agricultural plants. It is important to point out that additional funding from the state budget will not be necessary to implement the law. In addition to that need to comply with European Union legislation, this law creates preconditions to regulate the system of recognition of agricultural plant varieties in a way that will enable the smooth creation of new domestic and introduction into the production of newly created varieties of Community member states, while ensuring the preservation of the processing rights throughout the chain from seed production to its sale. One of the new developments with regard to the existing production, certification and control of the seeding system, distribution and recognition of varieties, change of jurisdiction regarding enrolment and management of the list of varieties of the Republic of Croatia is the national variety list and the recommended variety lists from the Bureau will be transferred to the responsibility of the Ministry. Article 2 of the proposed law sets out certain terms and one of them is under the regular number of 14 clones. Here, I'm using this opportunity to say something about it. Students of the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb The Institute of Winery and Winery and the Institute for Genetics and Insemination have been working for many years to save and revitalise the indigenous Croatian vine variety. As a result, several scientific and professional projects have been found, described and identified around 130 varieties and almost all have been collected in so-called "the" so-called "species". A bank of genes. It began with their individual clone selection, which represents the highest degree of genetic and health selection within the population of a variety. This project is implemented with the financial support of the Ministry of Science and its objective is the scientific result and there are no envisaged activities that would lead to practical application. I therefore use this opportunity and ask Mr. Minister to include the Ministry of Agriculture in this project or the revitalisation of indigenous vine varieties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5221	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5222	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The basic seed law, fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties was adopted in 2005. As such, it was partly in line with the legislative framework of the European Union. Amendments to the Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties address the issue of full compliance at the level of the legal act. This proposal seeks to simplify the regulatory part of the law so that most of the provisions of the relevant Directives of the European Union can be addressed and later maintained at the level of sublegal acts. The proposal for a new law regulates three main areas of production, placing on the market and importing of agricultural seeds involving seeds of cereals, blood plants, olives, beautiful plants, tails, vegetables and potatoes. The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development is the central authority of the State Administration responsible for implementing this law and administrative supervision under this law and the Institute for Seeding and Dispersion and the Office for Fruiting are the central institutions responsible for the certification and recognition of varieties. As regards harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union or this proposal for a law, free movement of goods, seeds and fruit material on the Croatian market as part of the European Union market would be ensured, which is one of the key requirements of all EU rules. During the preparation of sublegislative acts, small discrepancies of this law with EU legislation were observed and existing provisions had to be complemented or amended with a view to allowing certain categories of seed and fruit material to be marked only by a manufacturer certificate, to transfer the jurisdiction of enrolment and the keeping of variety lists to the Ministry, which I keep more appropriate, given that the European Commission and each individual Member State must report on all amendments to the Court List of the Republic of Croatia. In order to transfer the competent authority of the identification of the surveillance procedure for imported seed and fruit material to the Ministry's jurisdiction, to better regulate the issue of surveillance and the procedure of determining the quality of the fruit material, that these issues will be resolved after entering the European Union at the level of the European Union, it is more appropriate for that authority to establish the authorities and technical and professional checks to be carried out by the Institute as an expert body, to simplify the provisions concerning varieties and the recognition of varieties with a view to transferring them to the Minister in order to regulate the regulations of the sublaw and to make it more freedom to prescribe a level of costs for certain services. I therefore believe that I will support this harmonisation law with the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5223	Thank you very much. And Mr. Representative Milivoy Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5224	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law regulates a very important branch of the economy, a branch of production in which Croatia has a great chance as a producer of seeds and, of course, as a food producer. We arrange the area of production and placing on the market of agricultural seed, blood plants, cereals, tails, vegetables, potatoes, olives and beautiful plants, agricultural fruit material, fruity fruit material, fruity material of vines, vegetable plant transplants and seeds and fruity material of decorative plants, as well as the need to edit the system of recognition of the variety of agricultural plants. The proposed law or amendments to the Law on Seed, Fruit Material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants seeks to fully comply with the legislation in the European Union. By passing this law, Croatia is making yet another effort to adapt to the European Union's gains, or to bring the bill into line with the twenty-three implementing directives. A few specific things that are governed by this law I think are particularly important. First, the Register of the Court List of the Republic of Croatia passes into the jurisdiction of the ministry which I consider to be much more effective than that of the Institute as it has been so far. The possibility of exceptions for the issue of a seed certificate is introduced so that certain manufacturers can issue certificates but of course only for a specific seed category. This gives the possibility that certain categories of seed and fruit material can only be marked with producer tags, which means only the cost of the fruit production itself. In part of the law governing the fruit material, some issues of control over the production and quality process and the need for analysis of the fruit material are clarified. In many of the bill's proposals, it simplifies the provisions concerning variety lists and the recognition of varieties with the aim of transferring power to the minister in order to regulate sublaws easier to enforce laws. Some of the changes introduced in terms of the provisions of the costs will give the minister freedom to prescribe the level of costs and all with the aim of gradually reducing today's cost of services in relation to the issue of various permits and certificates according to the proposal and only financing of the Institute after a certain flow to the cost of the state budget. Finally, the proposal for a law harmonizes the activity in question with the European Union directives, i.e. harmonizes it with positive fluids. But according to my deep conviction, the bill also regulates certain activities in the territory of Croatia in order to avoid the situation presented by the gentleman from Vrgorec. I think it's very important, very important to pass this law. I'm in favour of passing the law, and it's an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5225	Thank you very much. And the final minister, Mr. Bozidar Pankretic. On behalf of the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5226	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, here is to allow me, at the end of the debate, to point out a few things, primarily thanks to all of you who have participated in the debate, if I can freely conclude and positively assess these amendments and additions to the law, so that in this part, stressing the importance of seminary and dissipation in the Republic of Croatia, I fully agree with the speakers that in that part, if it is necessary to do an additional effort because surely Croatia has its advantages in this segment of production and I believe that we will also do so in that part. But I can also say this part that concerns certain concerns about sublegal acts I will point out that in any case by defining things that the Law is good I believe that we will also take care of as well as the Law commits, that sublegal acts are in accordance with the law, so that we can say that in any way we would not bring sublaws and reduce the very parts of the Law but also lead to any discrepancies. So I can also say that the Ministry will take maximum care of it and also in the part where a part of the implementing rules are transferred to the Minister, I can say that we will make sure that the meaning of the legal provisions is not questioned. As far as the amendments are concerned, Mr. President, they may point out that the amendments of the Committee on Legislatives, meaning Amendment 1, 2, 3 and 4 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because they are normotechnical remarks which... improve the overall text of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5227	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are going to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Seed Act, fruit material and recognition of the variety of agricultural plants. It was an emergency procedure. The debate is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. The proposer accepted them and became an integral part of the final draft law. I therefore vote on the final draft law together with the amendments adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. So, unanimously, the law was passed with 131 votes. The Legislative Committee has proposed a conclusion that reads. The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to conduct an editorial of the text of this law before its publication in the “National Journal”. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? Thank you. This law was passed unanimously with 131 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5230	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The situation in pharmacy in Croatia tells us that of 970 registered pharmacies, something below 200 pharmacies is therefore owned, i.e. founding rights are at the level of regional and local self-government organised through pharmaceutical institutions. The essence of the organisation of pharmacy institutions which are the founders of the county lies that the availability of medicines and products distributed through pharmacy, pharmacy and pharmacy to make the population not only urban but also rural environments. For this reason, supporting the survival of pharmacy institutions which are founders of the district and local self-government, and since there was a anxious and clearly demonstrated intention to make certain pharmaceutical institutions precisely owned, i.e. the founder of the county or city to be placed on a public tender for sale by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2006 adopted the Regulation with the legal basis for the prohibition of the transfer of founding rights, therefore, from the level of counties to third legal and physical persons. In addition to this proposal, this proposal complements the Law on Pharmacy continues to apply that Regulation which ceases to apply at the end of this month and proposes to be supplemented by the same text as it was in the Regulation. It is necessary to say that this does not in any way prevent, therefore, a private initiative in the pharmaceutical activity, nor prevents the development of pharmaceutical activity, but is precisely developing another system because, namely, the pharmaceutical system... in the possession of the district and local self-government in this way, keeping a higher number of pharmacies which, where profits from a pharmacy at the level of urban environments can cover a potential loss of profits or a lack of functioning in the rural area, and the same county will ensure availability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are large areas in the Republic of Croatia where there is no private interest in opening a pharmacy is the responsibility of the area and local self-government would lie precisely to allow the organisation of its pharmacy in these areas the work of pharmacies and the availability of medicines to citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5231	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5232	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the pharmaceutical system is an integral part of the health system, and without it, you can't imagine quality health care for the population. Over the past year there has been a regulation that prevented the privatisation of pharmacies owned by Zagreb County and City, so the amendment of the Law on Pharmacy, which is now proposed, is a logical sequence, because the Law Regulation ceases to apply but the circumstances why this Regulation was adopted a year ago remain present. In Croatia, as we have heard from the secretary of state, there are slightly less than a thousand pharmacies, namely 970. Of which 17% is part of the home of health, 164 workers from an independent pharmacy unit, 454 private pharmacies owned by 148 private pharmacies who have two and more pharmacies. Finally, the 194 pharmacies owned by the county and the City of Zagreb come, and these pharmacies have become interesting to private companies who want to expand their activities to the market for medicines. In 1991, illustrations, the pharmaceutical network in Croatia had 364 pharmacies and 27 county-owned depots as an independent work organisation or as part of a health home and three depots. So, in the last 15 years, nearly 600 pharmacies have been opened in Croatia most in the period of '94, '97. The current development of the pharmaceutical network in Croatia is 4538 inhabitants per pharmacy which is better than the European average of 5105. The drug market in Croatia in 2007 was worth 4.2 billion kuna. Some 60 million boxes of various medicines have been issued in pharmacies, and the prices of these prescription medicines are determined by the basis of a rule that takes Slovenia, France and Italy as reference countries. If not in these countries of this medicine to Spain and the Czech Republic. So these prices are strictly regulated. In the pharmacy is issued for each prescription so-called. Pharmacy cost 7 kuna per prescription. It is estimated that in 2007, there were around 40 million recipes, which means we are reaching a sum of 280 million kuna. Along with these prescription drugs, there are so-called. non-receptive drugs in free sale, various medical aids, cosmetic products that rarely help the business success of the pharmacy and save it from destruction, as it is not respected for the agreed 120-day period, but it is rarely more than 300 days. In the structure of the drug business, 62% refers to business with HZZ, while 38% are done in business with other users in so-called HZZ. a hand-to-hand sale. The proceeds that the pharmacy generates from HZZO range from 25% to 35%. It should be pointed out that the conditions of business of small pharmacies are particularly difficult in small remote places, and in areas of special state concern and in islands. Despite the difficulties that are objectively present, however, it is a big money business, and therefore it is no wonder that there are supporters of the privatisation of urban and county pharmacies. The main argument against such privatisation is the fact that those who want to enter this business into this pharmaceutical business think clearly as if they were a commercial activity with profit as a sole goal. In the SDP club, we believe that pharmacies must develop as a health activity in which the impact of profits on the availability of medicines and the quality of health care will be minimised. For example, I come from Rijeka. There is a county pharmacy “Jadran” as an example of a model organized pharmacy service, which, apart from a pharmacy in Rijeka, also has pharmacies in the Gorski Kotar, on the islands, in places where profit-oriented work would certainly have no interest in keeping such a pharmacy. A few words about the consequences that could be even more pronounced if it were to go to the privatisation of county pharmacies. Accumulation of pharmacies in large cities and city centers, neglect of poorly populated areas, islands and suburban settlements. In particular, the creation and spread of pharmaceutical chains, the creation of monopolys and the market for domination by wholesaler or drug manufacturer. Weakening the economic capacity of self-employed pharmacies, lack of pharmacists and professional staff in pharmacies. Getting a profit becomes the main goal of setting up a pharmacy, neglecting the quality of service, pharmaceutical care, participation in prevention and encouraging citizens to maintain health as one of the tasks of pharmacists. The constant rush of entrepreneurs and pharmaceutical chains with requirements for opening a pharmacy, which practically makes it impossible for pharmacists to open pharmacies. There is a risk of neglect and non-compliance with professional and legal regulations in the work of a pharmacy. Pharmacies turn into distribution and drug trafficking sites. They become drug trafficking. That's not their purpose. Decisions shall be taken for market and profitable interests, not for health reasons. Another important quote. According to information based on professional supervision of pharmacy work and analysis of the pharmacy in 30% of the pharmacy lacks a pharmacy in one shift, and many pharmacies carry out pharmaceutical activities without the presence of a pharmacist, which is a legal obligation and thus endangers the health of the insurance company. There's no proper inspection if something hasn't changed in the meantime. As far as I know, there's a pharmaceutical inspector in charge of this 970 pharmacy. It thus creates the possibility that there is no adherence to legal regulations and personnel norms in individual private pharmacies. That doesn't happen in county institutions. It's final. The SDP Club supports this amendment and we expect the Ministry in collaboration with the profession, the Medical Chamber, and the Medical Chamber to come forward with an analysis of the development of a complete solution that would allow the development of a pharmaceutical service in Croatia, but in a way that leaves its basic task to be supplied to medicines, health counselling with the aim of improving health, preventing development and the treatment of diseases. Of course, such solutions must be consistent with European guidelines and standards, but in no case should they question the availability and supply of medicinal products to the population. In the pharmaceutical activity and as part of the health care activity, the goal must not be to earn the benefit of patients. Most European Union countries define clear criteria for the opening and operation of pharmacies, thus ensuring the stability of the pharmaceutical network and preventing any political, or entrepreneurial pressures on the opening of pharmacies and changing conditions. I think that's what we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5233	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5234	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The explanation of the bill, and what we heard today from Mr. Secretary of State, raises a new question. If privatisation is a pharmaceutical hazard for the service to be less or less deprived of citizens, then the question is necessarily asked, and what results have been produced by privatisation of primary health care or borrowing. If you once again read the explanation of the proposal for this law, it could also be applied to primary health care. Whether or not we have improved our primary health care by renting ambulants. Another question that concerns me whether the legislator believes that existing private pharmacies do not execute and do not comply with the law. Do private pharmacies in their range have all the prescription medicines, especially cheaper, or do they just sell what's a little more expensive, where the profit is bigger, and what's on the recipe is not necessary. Is the problem with respecting the drugstore network? Namely, I remind you that the county is authorized to establish a network of pharmaceutical activities. What about those provisions about how many pharmacies per population and distance from each other must they be? What about those cases where some privates get the consent to open a pharmacy at 100, 200 meters from county pharmacies, and some can't get three kilometers and it's all according to the law with papers, signatures and manual numbers. Shouldn't this problem have been dealt with in parallel? Shouldn't that be explained and the analysis be given, so what is the situation in the pharmacy service to our citizens? Or another question. What it means for citizens in a village 15 kilometers away from the city to have the primary health care clinic run until 19 hours, and a pharmacy up to 15, when the same patient will have to travel to the first pharmacy 15 kilometers to take the medicines prescribed by his doctor. What about the duty of the holidays and the days of the day and Sundays? How many citizens are available private pharmacies in those days we call "unworkdays"? How many private pharmacies are working on Sundays and national holidays? Where they're the only ones or where the others aren't. And do we really believe that only this ban on the transfer of founding rights solves this problem and introduces order? At the end of the 1990s and early 2000s, there was a lot of pressure for drugstores to rent, pharmaceutical units. In the County of Međimurje, I stood up to it firmly and we did not rent a single pharmacy unit. The drug crisis at the time showed that we did the very right thing and that our county pharmacy practically had all the drugs and cheap and expensive and those on the recipe and no prescription and with the capital it had and with the short payment deadlines met the extremely favourable conditions on the market of medicines and could therefore be supplied with all the medicines. Does this provision mean that county pharmacies can't borrow and what's the difference between being on the lease or not? And I'm finally asking the next one. How is there freedom and creation for what the state is responsible for, and when it comes to local or regional self-government, we are going to ban and impose some solutions? Why did the state hire the infirmarys, but the regional self-government forbid this job? How is it that everything that is in the decision-making power of the locals we respond quickly not only to laws but also to regulations when the state assesses and in other matters, and now I have listed several of these problems about the servants in the pharmacy, the state does not want to react urgently and solve the problem? I'm not sure that this amendment of the law will improve the quality of service that the team more reminds you that there were several county, I know of at least one county pharmacy that went into bankruptcy on the burden of the county. The county later had huge problems due to the bankruptcy of the pharmacy, and the state did not help solve the problem at the time. This suggests that only the county is responsible and obliged to ensure that the citizens of this country have a pharmacy available, but no one else has that obligation, not private pharmacy or state, but only the county. Does this mean that the share of the county in the distribution of taxes will be slightly higher this year or next? Does this mean that even through the decentralization of money, we will help them to ban any other step they make? It would be extremely useful if, in the light of the law, an analysis of the state of the pharmacy and all the problems that we all have in this area and a proposal for what the ministry will take and do to amend other regulations that regulate this area and finally make order in particular at the time when licences for the opening of private pharmacies are issued. Why are private permits only given in large centres? Why do we allow that part of the profits to be taken only in urban areas, and the question of villages and rural areas must only be provided by the county? How much of the profit of selling drugs goes to the private pharmacy and how much to the county. And normally, if there is a problem in the financial state of the county pharmacy, the government will say but the county is responsible for it, but when it's a private pharmacy, then the state reserves the right to issue the only permit to open. The county doesn't ask questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5235	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5236	Mr. President and Mr. Secretary of State, I have almost heard from Mr. Lesar's statement that he was holding on to the subject at all, perhaps it could be a matter of breaking the Rules of Procedure of Article 214 but I want to correct because I have raised this table incorrectly, where counterpart Lesar said that the state does not want to react and correct the problem. The state is very good at accessing this problem as well as to all others and in health care and insurance and all other moments so that it does not stand this claim that it does not want but also this law and the bill, the supplement of the Law on Pharmacy wants and put the problem quality as counterpart Jovanovic said there as well as in which place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5237	Thank you. State Secretary, Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to explain one thing. There is no difference in the establishment of a pharmacy owned by a county, a pharmacy owned by a private company, a company or an institution. There is a basis for the Law on Pharmacy adopted a rule on the criteria for opening a pharmacy where clear criteria are laid down and where, on the basis of the request, whether on the part of the County as founder and owner, whether on the part of the home health or by a private person or a company, if it meets the criteria of what the Mr. Dear Representative has said to the network, if the consent is met. In order not to give a false perception in public, the criteria have even been tightened and the amendments to the rules have been made to the part where, instead of the number of inhabitants who were to certain criteria which could not be affected because they have been given different calculations, they have taken the number of insured persons publicly published on the portal of the Croatian Health Insurance Office, at any time verifiable and as transparent as they are known by the rule of law as to the extent to which they can be pharmacy and how many insured persons in that area. I still have one more thing to point out. Privatisation and lease should not be mixed because people who are leased means tenants and today say that it is not the right privatisation for a purely simple reason that any pharmacy in the home of health that is in the lease can be rented and cancelled, there are provisions and return to the home of health, unlike a private open pharmacy, it is private. Or if the pharmacy sells, she's private. So precisely on the basis of the public tender of the Međimurje County for sale of the City Pharmacy "Cakovec" we also brought this regulation in 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5239	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5240	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the bill's proposal and the completion of the Law on Pharmacy with the Final Bill. We think that the adoption of this law really came at the right time because one hajka began to dare say to pharmacies and the intention of individual counties to transfer founding rights over pharmaceutical institutions whose founders are other legal or natural persons. The most attractive are city and county pharmacies because they are one of the most profitable institutions in the city or county. There are about 970 pharmacy units in the Republic of Croatia. Of this, 219 pharmacies owned by counties, towns, about 400 pharmacy units are in private pharmacy facilities, 200-thin private pharmacies and 150 pharmacies in the lease. In the first round of the roundup there was a takeover of private pharmacies by large chains, especially those at good locations in cities that can be sold well. For some mayors and mayors, such sales could be made to fill the budget. It's not about the little money. Of course, it intertwines profit, drug commercialisation and goods conversion in a ruthless liberal market, and on the other hand is the well-being of patients and the right to health care on the principles of availability, justice, quality efficiency. This is about ensuring and availability of supply of medicinal products. This includes the marketing of medicinal products, and under the supply of few medicinal products in pharmacyes and pharmacy depots, includes ordering, storage, issuing prescription and non-prescription medicines, as well as the production of master’s and galenic quality products. The proposal for this law is on the one hand a protection against monopoly, and on the other hand a real protection of patients, because part of them is not even able to cover the costs of health services. Monopolitical companies dictate prices, operating conditions and availability of the medicinal product on shelves. Consider the pharmacy depots that try to supply the patient with the medicine and in the farthest areas. It has been shown in practice that only through county and city pharmacies can control equal supply and availability of medicines for all citizens. Even in the European Union, there is no common position on pharmaceutical chains today, such as in Denmark, Finland, Spain or Portugal. Finally, we always call for a profession, so we also have the opinion of the Croatian medical chamber that welcomed the adoption of this law and has since the beginning opposed the privatisation of pharmacy in county and city property. The Croatian Democratic Community Club is not against market principles, but stresses that, above all, a patient who is in the farthest part of a major city or place, on the island, has the right to access and supply medicines for the treatment of all diseases regardless of whether the pharmacy was profitable or not, and for the time being, this can only be provided by county or city pharmacies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5241	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5242	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs! The Croatian Peasant Party's Club will support the draft law supplementing the Pharmacy Act. The proposed supplement of the Law on Pharmacy is useful and necessary for the following reasons. Pharmacy is a health care activity of the general public interest of citizens because it enables the professional supply of medicines that must be available at the same time. The founders of public pharmacies are the county and the City of Zagreb, and private natural persons and legal persons who have a license to perform pharmaceutical activities. Medical activity is available to citizens in major cities and settlements, but in many parts of Croatia, especially in rare populated areas and rural areas, citizens are deprived of that right. In 2006, certain counties launched statements of intent to sell or transfer founding rights over pharmacies to other legal entities, and a particular interest was shown by large drug companies and large companies engaged in commercial activities, which, according to the press, offered prices even above the real values of pharmacies. The interest of the county is to come up with money for their budget, which is in advance looking at the short-term positive effect for the county and the long-term negative effect for citizens, but also for the mandatory health insurance fund that pays for a large part of the medicines. The potential transition of pharmaceutical activity to so-called Pharmacies or trade chains operating on a purely profitable model are at great risk of reducing the availability of pharmacies for citizens in areas where pharmacies would not make a profit. Another potential concern stems from, for example, already seen practice in Hungary, monopolisation of medicines, and then supplying and prices of medicines that can ultimately increase the costs of medicines to citizens and the Health Insurance Fund. These are the reasons why the HSS club will support this legislative proposal but we will also support professional pharmaceutical activities in the role of public health interests of citizens. At the same time, this legislative proposal does not prevent a private initiative for the opening of pharmacies and other private natural and legal persons and does not violate any of the legal assets of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5243	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have nine individual hearings reported. I don't know if we're going to finish by 13:30 because then the vote starts when we're going to do the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the Elections and the appointments so we don't do it now and then we're going to vote again and then we're going to do it in sequence to say so. Here, so we have nine individual discussions. The first is Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5244	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable representatives of the government. Well, it seems to me that this is another absurd part of Croatian society of this bill. In fact, we talked earlier about amending and supplementing the Law on Institutions. The Law on Institutions of Article 1 states that health care is an activity of the institutions. And in the end, he says that this activity is not done to gain profits. At the same time, counterpart Caparin, on behalf of the HDZ Club, says that pharmaceutical activity is the most profitable activity. Therefore, there is no profit and at the same time is the most profitable activity. Law forbids profit, profit. If we add to this another absurd fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to direct action and take care of the development of public services and in such circumstances what counterpart Lesar said, the Government has allowed itself to privatise what should have been a public service, that in concessions, leases, etc. Not to worry whether this public service is working the same on Mljet Island and in Zagreb in Ban Jelačić Square because this is the purpose of availability, that all Croatian citizens can and should have the medicine at hand. If we add to this another constitutional obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take care of the even development of the Republic of Croatia, then we come to absurdities that cannot actually endure. So, of course, we all declare that pharmaceutical activity covers the entire field, the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and makes medicines available to all citizens but by keeping the head in the sand, the problem is not solved and is not smaller. We know that in the world's frameworks it may be the most aggressive activity, we know that. Now that that's how it's now being asked why the government has settled the regulation, it's even questionable whether it can be settled by regulation for a year and a half so that it can't privatise the pharmacy service at the county or local self-government level, at the same time it did so at the state level. That logic stops, and I have to start doubting the government. So the government was developing a private pharmaceutical sector and banned a regulation that was done by county, cities and municipalities. And now it seems to me that the ground is covered, and now we can ban the privatisation of pharmaceuticals to cities and municipalities. If it's a public service concern, then I think the government actually went into the area that's the opposite of the Constitution. But where we are. I think this matter requires rapid analysis, the adoption of a new full law on this activity, the insurance of public service and the public sector, and not all private citizens of Croatia, so that the state becomes competitive, and that is also mandatory to the private sector in this area. Then we can talk about the real concern of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the development of these services and this sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5245	Thank you. Ms. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5246	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I think this is the right time to enter the amendments to the Law on Pharmacy, given that pharmaceutical activity is part of health activities of interest to the Republic of Croatia as a public service. It is based, as we all know, on the principle of availability, on such a schedule of health institutions, companies and healthcare professionals, to enable each person to have equal conditions in the exercise of health care rights especially at the primary level of health activities. In addition to the principle of availability, healthcare is also based on the principles of fairness, efficiency and ensuring the safety of citizens in the use of healthcare. Among other things, the supply of drugs is provided. The current number and schedule of county pharmacies ensures the availability of medicinal products for citizens of each county and is primarily an important supply of medicinal products to the island population, which is another effort by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure the quality of life of all our islanders as well as the person, i.e. our citizens living in areas of special state care. In particular, this is a further guarantee, e.g. for the inhabitants of the island of the Sibenik archipelago which will be along the institute and along... with a restoring body together with a local self-government unit with the Institute of Foreign Aid and Care in the House and these amendments to the law make sure that, as regards health care, they are covered optimally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the amendments to this Law testify that its objective is not to earn but to benefit citizens in the domain of protecting human health and avoiding possible adverse consequences for the health of our citizens. In accordance with this provision, I welcome the prevention of the transfer of founding rights to pharmacies whose founder is county to other legal and natural persons because this is the way to respect the objective and purpose that I have stated, so I will support the amendments to this Act in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5247	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5248	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, indeed, we have a proposal to amend the Law on Pharmacy which, I consider only a segment of the Law that will come into the procedure and we hope in this year as well. In fact, from the data we heard from both the secretary of state and the predecessors who said we see that the problem of pharmacy in the Republic of Croatia has not been solved even though the system works. I will remind you that the Law on Pharmacy also states that pharmaceutical activity is an integral part of the health system and of the special interest of the Republic of Croatia. Which is understandable because it is the government and the state that cares about the health of the population. At the same time, however, as the European Convention says. He says the legislation of a country will be governed by national laws. So, we'll arrange the pharmacy system the way we want it, of course it won't be contrary to European. And the basic principle of this government and government is that the availability of healthcare is possible for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What this means, which often our prime minister can say is not Croatia as strong as Zagreb, but as strong as the smallest place in the Republic of Croatia. Also, health care, here I will say primary health care in the Republic of Croatia is not good how good it is in the city of Zagreb, but is good how good it is in my Slunj, from the Carlova County I come as good in... either in Scabrinja or in Konavla or in Baranja. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the availability of health care, the primary, of course, that the station cannot be in all parts of Croatia equally available, must be, and in order to be along with the doctor's office it is absolutely necessary to be a pharmacist or... medicines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because we know from practice, and more or less all MPs have their own ground where they move because these citizens chose them to represent them here. But if you're working a doctor's office and you have a 20-mile-long pharmacy, that infirmary really shouldn't be working. Because for every recipe if our resident, a patient can go 30 km away, he doesn't need a system like that. And now comes the kind of problem and the proposal of this Law that came at the right time, which, again, is probably part of the segment of the Law on Pharmacy, which is very important. And the regulation that was in 2006 went precisely for the availability, safety, quality and supply of medicinal products to the entire population to be complete. And the ownership rights that have counties in their institutions, we said that there are 26 institutions in which the district is 193 pharmacy, it was good and it prevented a monopoly from happening in the pharmacy. And the monopoly in no activity is good and at least it's good in the health system and that regulation at the time was a really good move. I'll tell you from the example of Karlovac County, we have a pharmacy organized in the institution of a carlovic pharmacy that really works extraordinaryly. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget the time of the Homeland War when private pharmacies were and did business in the Republic of Croatia, the availability and supply of medicines provided only institutions owned by counties or health homes. Private pharmacists at that time, what Lesar also said were not on duty, were not on the supply of drugs, I will conditionally tell the widest consumption of medicines that were most needed but were supplying the drugs that were profitable. And we must not run away from the fact that today pharmacy in the Republic of Croatia is a profitable branch. If the profitable branch of our counties all institutions have their administrative councils, administrative councils control but also decide together with the owner, means the county headship and the mayor which will do out of profits, and I think we have agreed that all county pharmaceutical institutions are doing business with profit. And so that profit will still be deployed by the owner, so the county will determine what is most needed in the health system at that time. I'm going to tell you an example with us, that from this get completely all the pharmaceutical system is extremely well-informed, all the pharmacies are arranged and renovated by standards of Western Europe and some of the funds went to the county budget. But it is still important to say that in these institutions that are in county.../The speaker has been shut down./ The most qualitative part of the pharmacy profession of the pharmacists is the pharmacy. [[Intruder: Get involved!]] Therefore, for reasons that these people who have been supplying drugs for 15 years and during the Homeland War, I ask both the Secretary of State and the Ministry of State that all the laws that will be adopted in the future on pharmaceuticals do not go in any way to deny people whom we have not allowed to go to privatisation, because they are of particular interest in the supply of medicines. At the same time, I ask the Secretary of State and we here representatives to keep an eye on the new network of pharmaceutical activities in the Republic of Croatia so that this network is truly respected. I'll say from the example, I won't say at what time it happened that we have a law that banned the opening of a pharmacy 500 meters within the nearest county pharmacy. And it happened to us that this one was opened a hundred meters away. And I asked the Ministry's contacts, and that was years ago, and they said they were measuring and it seemed to be 500 meters. I think they walked around the building three times to get up to 500 meters. And I think State Secretary that such a situation I am convinced will no longer be repeated and that we are going to introduce order into this pharmaceutical system and I believe that today's bill of law is really good, that the availability of healthcare in this case will continue to be preserved and maintained at a high level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5249	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5250	So I'm hoping to save on the time you've announced that our Zeitno is quite large, is actually because my predecessors have said a lot of things that I would repeat. Namely, for a simple reason because we who know or are in the middle of where county pharmacies operate or where the pressure on the opening of pharmaceutical activities is particularly present because of hospital and other health facilities. At the same time, we are witnessing that in the process of privatization or the opening of private pharmacies we are in a situation that other parts of the county, we want to say, are not covered by this activity. I just want to start by reminding that pharmacy is a traditional medical activity, that almost to Dubrovnik so that we do not list further in larger places there is a tradition that has been for more than a hundred years and that did not only consist in preparations of pharmaceutical or plasma medicines, but also in one section in the health care of the population at times when the area was not covered with doctors and professional medical staff. So I think this topic really deserves a lot of attention. But I want to emphasize one thing. Here, a colleague from Slunj, as I understand it, actually said what I want to point out in the first row not because we're fresh parliamentary representatives, so we want some things, we don't, we don't know what years ago were brought in, and we don't all work professionally in the dam, so we have daily insight into certain regulations. In order to benefit from what we have said in the adoption of the railway programme, this High House is periodically reported with analyses and data on the consequences of the current legal solutions produced in practice, especially in these parts of which the state is responsible for functioning, as counterpart Leko said both in the Constitution and in some other acts fundamentally recorded as the basic concerns of the state. Secondly, that a new law should really be considered, especially based on that analysis. Because the same situation is with us that drugstores opened up 50 meters from the county pharmacy who all gave their pain not only in war situations, but also in other situations when it came to drug shortages. Therefore, with the support of this, as counterpart Jovanovic said on behalf of the club, I really advocate and support initiatives to prepare an analysis at a time as soon as possible in the pharmacy. To also oppose liberalism in this activity because unfortunately what is said about gaining profits is a basic activity if it is based on the activities that are related to profit it will certainly lead to the closure of the pharmacy even in those places that are unquestionable today and which are actually well covered by these activities. And therefore, with support, I ask that, if possible, an application and a request to carry out such an analysis at the most recent time and that it is the basis for the adoption of a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5251	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic's turn. He's gone. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5252	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm really gonna cut the exposure short, because so far it's all been said. So, I think that pharmacy must remain a public service, because it must ensure availability in the supply of medicines, that, in fact, through a network of pharmacies, territorial availability should be ensured especially in those areas where there is no private initiative. This is also the reason that pharmaceuticals, i.e. the founding rights for pharmacy, must remain at the level of the county. The secretary of state has already presented this example of our Međimurje County, which was the first to go to the drugstore. Even in spite of the opposition of part of the council members in the county assembly, a decision on the sale of the pharmacy was made. Right now, that would be a pretty high asset in the county budget. However, ultimately for the citizens of this county it would be a shame and it is a good thing that, at that moment, a regulation is passed which we are now, in the same form, transposing into the law. However, I only volunteered to say one more thing. This is precisely the example of my county where for the second year, profits have been derived from pharmacy and quite high funds relative to the height of the county budget are being entered into the county budget. However, it would be fine if it were spent transparently and if it were known that they were going or ending or, therefore, part of the institution, another part for health care. Since there is no such thing and it is likely to be the case in other areas, I think it would be good if the law regulates that if the funds are drawn from the pharmacy to the county budgets that they must be spent on health needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5253	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5254	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, the proposer of this law is in one... The situation, a double personality for the reason that we've declared privatization to the pharmacy, and we've been doing it systematically and unfavorably, so that we now remember that it would be good to stop it now and make it impossible for the further situation to happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I completely agree with the fact that county pharmacies are not being sold, because in the healthcare system it is something that would say what you have at home and what is worth and what you are not selling, and it was time to stop it, but on the other hand, the proposer has not dared to move forward, probably because he has not so far abolished the regulation on the privatisation of health homes that is otherwise promised in the coalition agreement, because he would also add that in health homes, pharmacies that would be owned by health homes that would then ensure the availability of pharmaceutical protection in those areas where pharmaceutical protection is insufficient or where private business, or private interests, have no profit, so to open up a pharmacy in one Court of the Union. It remains unclear whether further privatisation of pharmaceuticals will continue or not, and this government advocates competition and, on the other hand, restricts the possibility of opening a pharmacy. Therefore, the situation in which we are now is that we will clearly ban the privatisation of county pharmacies, but that we have obviously not allowed the development of competition and that it can obviously happen if you have a certain connection or someone to open up a pharmacy as counterpart Strikic said 100 meters to each other. So there's no transparency in the very system of opening a pharmacy and there's no transparency in the drugstore itself. On the other hand, I predict that in two or three years, we will not talk at all about pharmacies as profitable institutions, otherwise I would say that there are no profitable institutions in the health care sector and that the drugstore's resources should be directed when we talk about the county, that it should be directed into health care, that is, in the work of the pharmacy itself. I predict that in two years, if not shorter and this year, pharmacies will no longer be as tempting a cake for both wholesales and other large systems like this. Now the Atlantic Group that wants to start a chain of pharmacies because with this payment method that is now over 180 days and that profit that we call is already in the pharmacy will disappear and will be used to settle debts. And this time I also use to warn about the alarming state of the pharmacy because it has never happened that the medicines, i.e. that the drugstore debts to the side of the HZZO were over 180 days, and as we know, the Croatian Health Insurance Service has transferred 800 million kunas of long medicines to the prescription this year, so we expect that this period of non-payment to pharmacies will be over 180 days, and when it is over a year, then the supply of the drugs will come into question. So to support it is to sort these things out in some way, but it lacks the courage to go deep and to reform the system from all that we've seen these days, it's not even in anybody's mind, and it doesn't seem to be in the will either.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5255	Thank you. Correction Mr. Nedeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Honorable representative Mrsic has made several inaccuracies, I will try to explain two. It's that this government, I quote, defends the opening of new pharmacies. Indeed, the proposal for this law does not say that there is no ban on opening up, this is about a law that prohibits the transfer of property rights. So it doesn't defend the opening of new pharmacies, if it's going to be opened in accordance with the network of the pharmacy system brought by this Parliament. And secondly, that pharmacies are not profitable I really found no information in the Republic of Croatia that no pharmacy is closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5257	Thank you. Replica, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5258	I think colleague Miranda Mrssic has made good attention that there has been a major problem and further ambiguity in the existing law and intransparency of the possibility of opening new pharmacies. In this regard, more approvals given by local self-government units, therefore very non-transparent and still at the point of entry. When this possibility is just open, of course, that claimants at the opening of the pharmacy were large advocates of freedom of the market, which is especially why you are now distracting the attention that is not defined here and should now be, and now those who are or are allowed to do so, and you have also drawn attention to some in a very non-transparent way, are now the first advocates of closure, i.e. restrictive provisions and conditions for opening new pharmacies. So then we have an air distance, whether something is built or not, whether something is going to be built and then units of local self-government also from person to person, from chance to trouble give or deny consent or the possibility of a private person opening a pharmacy. And the team on this absurd is then even bigger if it remains an irrefutable fact and given the GFK survey for the past year when we see that 75% of households have exceptional and extraordinary costs other than health insurance and beyond that for medical needs, so the fact that I think we can all agree that health has become the most profitable commodity then why close that circle as almost noumerus Klaus of those given and allowed to have a pharmacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5259	Answer, Mr. Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5260	The Honored representative Marinovic opened an area that was unregulated and remained open at the level of how anyone will decide and how strong someone will be to break through and open a pharmacy in the system itself. In any case, that part of opening the pharmacy and opening the pharmacy remained completely non-transparent and I'm afraid that what you said that whoever got on the bus got on, now we're going to close the door and then after that we'll see who's going to kidnap most of the cakes, especially if we're aware these days, and in recent years that the pharmacies have been targeted except for the drugstores, the target and all the other corporations that realize that in the pharmaceutical business are good profits. In any case, county pharmacies should be prevented from going for sale, but on the other hand, it should be possible to enable all those interested in one fair competition and to be after the grandmother, by the uncles or by party membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5261	That's not gonna happen. Thank you. Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5262	Dear President, Honorable Secretary of State, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament! I'm hardly going to say anything smart and qualitative about something new based on this debate that has been conducted so far. But I'm going to offer a few of my thoughts on the draft law supplementing the Pharmacy Act. Medical activity should ensure that healthcare is available as an obligation for the state to care for its citizens. Based on this knowledge, pharmaceutical activity is given its real role in the health care of the population of the Republic of Croatia. As we have already heard today’s drug market everywhere, so in Croatia it opens up a space for big jobs that ultimately need to bring profits to participants in the realisation of these jobs, large jobs in the health care system that should ultimately be realised only material gains and health and illnesses put into the category of goods. I am starting with the fact that the quality of health care for the population can only be valued if the pharmacy system is evaluated as part of the overall health system. I join those who find that health care cannot exclusively benefit from economic or market interests such as those in other areas of activity regardless of ownership. Many European countries defend their pharmaceutical systems and oppose the European Commission's position to liberalise healthcare. In that battle for profit, we know who gets hurt most often. It's the one that needs the system the most, and that's the patient. We often speak to European experiences and now we join them by at least producing laws and by harmonising them with the legal gains of the European Union countries where I hope we will soon come as promised in Brussels yesterday after we suspended ZERP. The review of European Union legislation shows that medicinal products as particularly sensitive and specific products on which human health depends are subject to very strict registration and marketing regulations, quality control, publishing regime, advertising. All these regulations are united at European Union level. However, the organisation of the pharmacy system as part of health care, ownership of pharmacies, spatial staff standards, pharmaceutical network, health insurance relations, price formation is not harmonised at European level. As we have heard today, and colleagues have pointed out here each country is allowed to regulate pharmacies by national legislation in a way that best fits by respecting the European Union's positive regulations. Today's pharmaceutical system in Europe functions roughly on two models, i.e. on two categories of so-called. Ethics category and so-called Trade category. In the first group, the owner of the pharmacy is usually a pharmacist, one pharmacist, one pharmacy, and there are restrictions in the handling of medicines. For example, Austria, Greece and Italy. In a trading category as the name itself says where profit is the primary goal we have the existence in Great Britain, the Netherlands, Ireland and other countries. The pharmaceutical group of the European Union whose members of the pharmaceutical organisation of the Member States of the European Union have produced a document of pharmacy in the future. The Croatian pharmaceutical society is an associated member of the group. The document shows that in addition to the procurement and administration of medicinal products, medicinal products should be instructed and advised to patients, users on the correct use of the medicinal product, follow the outcome of pharmacotherapy, ensure more rational use of the medicinal products, and act preventively to protect the health of the population. Therefore, the attention of physicians in modern pharmacies is shifted from a medicinal product to a patient, as a user of this medicinal product. So much for now for Europe. But let's go back to some elements of our everyday life. What are the potential owners of drug chains in Croatia looking for? At this point, rounding successful private pharmacies, and only then can the regulation allow for the privatisation of urban and county pharmacies and through the pharmaceutical business a significant step into the region. Most of the pharmacy is in private hands, as all the speakers have said. Unprivitised are other city and county pharmacies currently holding about 25% of the shares in the Republic of Croatia. In Croatia we have several forms of ownership of pharmacy and return of relationship one pharmacist, one pharmacy that implies the ownership of a pharmacist over a pharmacy is not feasible in this segment. If the number of pharmacies in the chain increases, part of the health care can stay out of the health system. I will personally, as well as the SDP's Club of Representatives, support this amendment to the law. As my colleague Jovanovic, I believe that a comprehensive solution should be found with the aim of strengthening the pharmaceutical profession and its more effective effect on the health of the overall population, especially on the models and experiences of the European Union countries that I have partly stated in my presentation and cited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5263	Thank you. It's 10 minutes out of time. Replica Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5264	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! In his part, Kurelic spoke as many colleagues before, today about the biggest problem in the pharmacy today, which is the creation of a profit centre. So, what we need to stress is that the pharmacies owned by the county, they may do business in a way that at a certain point make a profit but that profit they return back to their pharmacy system and that is the fundamental difference why it cannot be allowed to privatise because others who want to enter that system will not invest that money back in the pharmaceutical activity but will make that profit for something else. And what has been said very rarely today, I have to point out once again, in private pharmacy chains, at this point, there are 300 pharmacists missing. You'll come to a private pharmacy where there won't be any pharmacists, he'll just be a pharmaceutical technician. You can't let that happen. That's why this has to be regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5265	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5266	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I had not been so quick before when I had to react to the correction of an incorrect quote, but I will now take advantage of it, and I will say with pride that Dubrovnik pharmacies are not only 100 years old but date back to 1317 and that it is the oldest in Europe pharmacy in Mali Brača. ... The other one? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Zadar first? Trogir. Thank you very much. ... He's in Zadar first. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, colleagues and colleagues, we are witnessing the creation of new pharmaceutical chains owned by larger companies. If privatisation is also allowed, if pharmaceuticals owned by county and cities are allowed to be privatised, or the pharmaceutical network is actually destroyed, the requirements of free competition would only be met. There'd be big chains of pharmacies where actually pharmacyes would only be employees, which actually the whole profession was afraid of. Of course, those who wanted to do so were expecting a large profit, including at the expense of the quality of the pharmacy service and the denial of the equal availability of services to each patient. Of course, less developed areas are thought of and non-profitable pharmacies. In addition, the fact that this business wants to be dealt with by persons without pharmaceutical education also speaks about the avoidance of pharmaceuticals and health care and primary health care and the distortion of market principles of capital accumulation. You can finish a little more, please. The installation of the inability to sell pharmaceuticals owned by county and cities and to allow for such conversion where pharmacyes would have a majority part in the management would be able to provide, in fact, professional, professional and economic independence and professional freedom to work where patient care would be above all, and this is actually the objective of the health policy or the pharmaceutical system as part of the health system. Of course I support the amendment of this law because this is actually part of the regulation of the pharmacy system. I would just like to mention one more study actually which, the study was done, an analysis of the consequences of the deregulation in pharmacy and the typical regulation mechanism are related to the criteria for the establishment of new pharmacies, the issue of ownership and the mandatory and quality professional training of pharmacists. The study selected three European countries that had passed the liberalisation or deregulation in pharmaceuticals and for comparison were three countries where the pharmaceutical activity was still strictly regulated. Finally, the conclusions were that the regulation allowed pharmacists to focus their activities on professional work and counseling patients that the availability of pharmaceutical services was better in countries with the regulation of pharmaceutical activity, that in the countries with the regulation of pharmaceutical activity, the steady distribution of pharmacies was achieved in view of the overall needs of the population and that the prices of medicinal products were also more stable in countries with regulated pharmaceutical activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5267	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5268	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would briefly like to look at one problem in pharmacy or county practice as the founder of a pharmacy to extract profits from a pharmacy and use it to cover the loss of county hospitals. It is actually a common practice on the ground which at this point seems acceptable. The County is the owner of both pharmacy and county hospitals and the gain of one segment of healthcare is used to cover the loss of another segment of health activities. However, what consequences such practice could have on the business of a pharmacy. The extraction of profits unrelentingly reduces the level of liquidity or the ability of pharmacists to pay their dues, which is in fact the basis of the current good results and high profitability of the pharmacy because they are able to pay in shorter time due to high liquidity and to exercise the right to receive a "hour sconto". Under poor liquidity conditions, therefore the lack of money will be extended by payment deadlines, the "hour of sconto" will be reduced and their profitability reduced. Therefore, the extraction of profits from the pharmacy could be a model of financial depletion of the pharmacy and they could become easier prey to privatise if legal provisions that prevent privatisation would eventually be lifted. The regional self-government units will want to deal with such problematic pharmacies that have come from the current golden coke that have filled the county budgets for years could become those that seek recovery on the burden of the county budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5269	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5270	Mr. President. Just one incorrect quote to Mrs. Jelas, where she claimed that the county pharmacy's profits cover the hospital's debts. This is absolutely incorrect because the pharmacies are made up of health homes which is a special institution and organisation at the level of the county and cannot be transferred. Pharmacys are a special institution so you can't hospital debt cover... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5271	Mr. Representative thinks so. And as last in debate, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5272	Your Honor, Mr. President. I will try to point out a problem that has not been mentioned so far, and I would like my colleague Dr. Kundic to pay attention to it too, my fellow citizen. I believe that the Committee on Law and the Committee on Local Self-Government have failed to notice that this proposal is contrary to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Because in October 2005, the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments and amendments to the laws on local and regional self-government, which established the possibility or extended the scope of the demarcation of the so-called Big cities. The first step taken in the operationalisation of these amendments and the law took place in the Construction Act. However, it is also possible to extend the jurisdiction of large cities and county centres and to this activity by these changes. Therefore, let us remind ourselves that once the pharmacies, Mr. President, please allow me to remind myself that, as Mr. Djakić said, the pharmacy was in the health care system but were isolated, but I will also remind you that in county pharmacies, for example, Zagreb County, they were created so that the combined health homes of cities in a unique home of the health of the county and then the pharmacies that acted within the system were isolated as a special whole. There is now the possibility that Velika Gorica, for example, as a large city takes back the founding rights of the home of health and assumes her part of the responsibility in building a public health system because it allows her the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, and according to these changes it will not be possible to do so for those pharmacies that ended up in the county. Because in the meantime, they're isolated into special systems. And now the law passes any transfer of rights, founding rights. So not only do they sell to companies or to someone in the private sector. So, this change will prevent the transfer of founding rights to local self-government units that were once the founders of these same pharmacies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5273	Thank you very much. Here's the final, and I hope for a short while. Proposer Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem, on behalf of the promoter, therefore, here you go, Golem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in the end, on behalf of the promoter, I would first like to thank you for your support, therefore, this amendment to the law. However, since it is already, in the debate we have heard today, there is a possibility that some things may not be known, and on the part of the executive authorities it might be good to say we should say the following. First. The pharmaceutical system in Croatia is not in any kind of crisis, nor is this about any kind of crisis. In fact, this is about continuing to apply a regulation that was passed a year and a half ago when there was no crisis either. It is already an analysis of the situation that exists and I thank you for the suggestion but in any case it can be shown, it will be shown when proposed, therefore, one whole system of reorganisation, means amendments to the Law on Pharmacy which is done precisely with profession and all interested, therefore, in the system of health care. But with this proposal, we couldn't wait for this moment which will be this year for the reasons that the time would come when the regulation would cease to be in force and then these things could come to light which is why the regulation was adopted. I must clearly decline the charges that the establishment of a pharmacy is not transparent. It should be said, when the government is in the first term of Dr. Eve Sanader took over the power we found just so untransparent and we found the situation that at 100 meters, at 50 meters, that even the existing rule that was then not applied at all. By following the regulation in 2007, we adopted a new regulation that rules out subjectivity, which means they were not given, no more consent is given from the level of some local or regional self-government, but objective, easily compliant criteria have been set, such as the air distance by geodetic measurement and not by the number of steps. Like the number of people insured and not according to population, there was a lot of migration every month. On the other hand, the criteria were set exactly and precisely because of the problem of rural environment where I will remind 5 thousand inhabitants were minimum for one pharmacy which many villages and many smaller towns could not achieve were made known exceptions where it was said clearly and loudly that the municipality could have one pharmacy, at least regardless of the number of inhabitants, where if there is no pharmacy within 5 km that can be established especially in areas where there is no public transport or if it is about the creation of completely new, settlements, and it is a stimulating housing that can also be provided. In this way, the criteria laid down in the rules in force are absolutely transparent. And I'd like to pray that as a pronoun, too, I'm not being told that I'm in a schizoid situation because I'm not. Rather, we should say clearly and loudly continue, therefore, the system of improvement in the field of pharmaceutical activity, we will bring and propose that the Croatian Government change the Law on Pharmacy to this House, in a way that will be acceptable to Croatian citizens, and for all that information for which someone, such as there is no regulation on the privatisation of homes of health, there is a rules on the lease and many other things we are always ready to give and reports and explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-14-0.u5275	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And finally, the final draft law supplementing the Pharmacy Act. It was also an emergency procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This law was passed by a majority vote of 128 for, 2 against and one abstention. I thank everyone, all the MPs and MPs. I want to see all those who celebrate it of course meet Easter holidays and happy Easter and see you on the 26th of this month, and until then I wish you a pleasant rest and a pleasant and peaceful sea for all.
