ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9295	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. On 21 April 2008, chapter 14 of the negotiations was opened. Traffic policy, so that the adoption of this law will, in any case, contribute to the success of the negotiations in this chapter, ultimately and its closure, clear what our goal is. This Law therefore fully harmonizes, it fully aligns itself with the legal property of the European Union, harmonizes access to the activities of road transport operators, passengers and cargo, access to the market in road transport, passengers and freight, mutual recognition of diplomas, certificates, other evidence of access to the driver’s certification activities, the provision of cabotage in road transport of passengers and freight, the transport of passengers or cargo between certain places in the Republic of Croatia which are carried out by a foreign carrier, and the taking of measures in the event of a crisis on the market of transport services. For the first time, the law regulates the acquisition of initial qualifications and periodic training for drivers of certain categories of vehicle, the condition for granting public authority to centres to carry out training tasks for drivers, which will be carried out through a public tender. According to this Act, carriers from the Member States of the Community may, on the principle of reciprocity and on a provisional basis, carry out cabotage from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in the transport of passengers and cargo and, in the event of a crisis in the market for transport services, by means of transport between Member States and cabotage, the measures to be taken to remove disturbances shall be prescribed. Furthermore, for the first time, the Law regulates the use of rental vehicles without a driver for road transport of goods and allows the use of vehicles hired by carriers established in another Member State. The text of the provisions shall apply from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The law introduces a gradual increase in the amount of financial capacity to issue an inside road transport licence from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, when amounts proving to be financial capacity will be equalised in domestic and international transport. That exception will only apply until the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. In addition to the obligations arising from the accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union during the application of the Law, there was also a need to correct certain articles in order to simplify the procedures for the issue of individual documents, as indicated by the recommendations of the HItroRez. The proposed law proposes, among others, the abolition of restrictions on the age of vehicles carrying out public road transport activities of passengers and freight, by eradicating paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 6 of this Act. In order to fully comply with the provisions of the Road Transport Act with the regulations of the European Union which prescribe the conditions for access to the activities of road transport operators and access to the market for road transport passengers and freight passengers, it is proposed to delete these provisions. The law further introduces the obligation to obtain a licence. This is an act approving the carrying out of the activity of the transport of passengers or freight carried out by companies, public institutions, services, the own installation which establishes a unit of local self-government to carry out municipal activities such as e.g. I don't know, Zagreb Electric Tram, "Purity", limited-responsibility society and others, who have been released so far. The proposed introduction of a licence obligation for those entities shall further comply with the legal acquis of the European Union in the field of access to activity. This proposal complements or amends one of the basic criteria for the distribution of foreign licences to carriers, and refers to the quality of the rolling stock according to technical requirements classified from euro 0 to the euro 5, which is consistent with the actual state and quality of the rolling stock of carriers carrying out freight transport. In this way, the criterion relating to a technically more modern and environmentally acceptable vehicle, whose purchase must result in an increase in the number of points for the distribution of those licences, is also harmonised. The provisions of this Proposal for a Law and, in the part of the infringement, allows the Road Traffic Inspection to be made available to more efficient measures in cases of public transport activity by persons who are not registered and who do not have a licence. Finally, I must say that this proposal for a law was also discussed on the Economic Social Council on 30 April of this year and the social partners agreed without objection to this proposed decision and supported the adoption of such a law. Here, thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9296	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Rade Bosnjak. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9297	Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will maintain the adoption of this law because its adoption makes another important step towards the legal arrangement of road transport areas and towards meeting the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the process of joining the European Union. The proposal for a road transport law is a regulation whose adoption is a further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union in those parts in which it is not yet in conformity or not fully harmonised and regulates access to road transport, passenger and freight activities and regulates access to the market in passenger and freight transport. This law continues to regulate the market in the field of road transport and transport of passengers and freight and significantly facilitates and access and business in this sector to all those who wish to engage in this activity. This law also regulates mutual recognition of diplomas, certificates and other evidence of formal capacity to access road transport operators' activities, issue of driver certificates and carry out cabotage in road transport. Among other things, it is proposed to remove restrictions on the age of a vehicle which carry out the public road transport activity of passengers and freight, thus becoming the only technical correctness of the vehicle. This provision of the law when the law is adopted and entered into force will make it easier for carriers to carry out this activity but at the same time will commit the stations to technical inspection of the vehicle, lift and technical expertise to a higher level. The current practice in the application of the applicable law has pointed to the need to simplify the process of issuing certain permits, as also indicated by the recommendations of the HITROR, and this proposal has made a correction of individual members with a view to simplifying the procedure for issuing certain documents, which certainly brings new quality in the field of legislation although it does not result from the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the accession process to the European Union. This law also regulates the issue of carrying out the transport of passengers and cargo in the Republic of Croatia carried out by a foreign carrier and by a community of states, which is not possible under the applicable law without the special approval of the ministry. I think it is also important to highlight the issue which will be regulated by this law and concerns the professional competence of the carrier, by defining precisely the area which will include the examination of the professional training of the carrier, such as knowledge from civil, economic, labour and social law, tax regulations, financial management, means of accessing the market in the transport of services, technical standards and business aspects and road safety. It is also a very important issue, also, that the issue of a licence being introduced as an obligation for carriers such as companies, public institutions, services established by the community of local self-government to carry out municipal activities which have so far been exempt from these obligations. The introduction of this obligation for those entities will need to work further to comply with European Union rules on access to activity. The adoption of this law changes one of the basic criteria for the distribution of foreign licences to carriers and refers to the quality of the rolling stock according to technical requirements to the euro 5 and would be consistent with the actual state and quality of the rolling stock. The adoption of this law will also bring into line the criterion relating to a technically more modern and environmentally acceptable vehicle whose purchase will bring more points to the carrier and thus facilitate the entry of a foreign licence. The novelty in the law which is worth pointing out is the area governed by the use of rental vehicles without drivers for foreign carriers established in another Member State of the European Union in order to carry out transport between Member States. These provisions would apply from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The adoption of this law also allows carriers from the Member States of the European Union to carry out cabotage in the transport of passengers and cargo from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union but also to prescribe measures in the event of a crisis in the transport market between Member States and cabotage. The new legislation also includes provisions on how to recognise good reputation evidence as one of the conditions for obtaining authorisation to carry out this activity for legal or natural persons established or resident in the Republic of Croatia. The novelty is also an area governed by the temporary withdrawal of licences, the issue of driver certificates from non-member countries, and the withdrawal of driver certificates with the precise identification of competent authorities for the implementation of those procedures. It is important to stress that this law introduces a gradual increase in exports of financial capacity to issue authorisations for the operation of transport in internal road transport until the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union when those amounts will be equalised in internal international transport. This provision shall act as a separate preparation of our carriers for access to activities after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and the entry into force of the provisions of this Act relating to that act. Finally, this law will allow road traffic inspection to be made available to effective measures in the event of public transport activities to persons not registered or not licensed to carry out their activities. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Transport and I suggest both fellow Members and colleagues to support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9298	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9299	Dear President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a regulation in the transport policy area that is changed in yet unconformed segments in the activity of road transport of freight and passengers with European regulations, primarily in the section relating to the compliance of the conditions of work of domestic and foreign carriers, the transport licenses, the professional training of carriers, and some other issues in general relating to the status of external carriers. Among other things, it is proposed to remove restrictions on the age of vehicles carrying out the transport of 18-year-old passengers and the age of the 10-year-old child transport bus which are in the current law and the technical correctness of the vehicle as the only restriction. Therefore, the age of the vehicle will not be a condition for the operation of road transport. The conditions will be met by stricter technical correctness criteria as well as by standardised vehicle equipment for transport. Here, of course, it takes a maximum effort of legislation to remove the obligation to rejuvenate the vehicle from the head and not bring human accidents and victims, because we will not invent hot water if we say that our vehicles are an old carrier. And now we say let them, well, and let them, if we force the carriers to drive not only the right ones, but also, for example. special buses for the transport of students. Then these old men today won't be able to make it on the road. However, this also means the need for concrete assistance from the state to carriers for organised purchases of newest trucks and buses through favourable loans. It also introduces the obligation to issue a transport licence carried out by undertakings whose founders are municipalities and cities, therefore, tram transport, waste transport, etc. What will not please domestic carriers is an increase in the amount of money to prove the financial capacity for domestic transport by 50%, i.e. From 30,000 to 45 thousand kuna, and this is also temporary because by joining the European Union, it will be equalised to prove its financial capacity in domestic and foreign transport. This will say that it will then be at least at the current legal level of 65 thousand kuna for the first vehicle and 36,000 kuna for each subsequent vehicle. Furthermore, the amendments to the laws are detailed in the area which includes the test of the driver’s professional training in a way that determines the knowledge that must be demonstrated in the examination, but that persons who have higher or higher roadside training are also free from passing tests, partly and persons who have 5 years of working experience in the management of transport. Under the current law, persons with five years of working experience in transport management were free of exams, so that even if they were to pass a partial exam, they would not be happy. The amendment of the law also introduces the obligation to provide evidence of good reputation as one of the conditions for obtaining a licence for both domestic and foreign carriers. Evidence of poor reputation for the course of the criminal records, if there is no evidence of good reputation, the public notary shall be granted a statement by the carrier that it has not been punished. The licence shall be renewed every five years, but it shall be introduced and prescribed that if, on the basis of its own knowledge, or on the basis of a report by the inspection service or customs administration, the carrier has determined in the last two years that, in the last two years, more than twice by a judicial decision of the criminal court, he may withdraw the licence from the carrier for a period of one month to a year. This is very good because now that someone commits 10 serious criminal offences at customs or several times transports illegal immigrants they still have a license. The amendments to the law also resolve a single anomaly established in practice, namely that the defacto transport of passengers was not carried out by a carrier which was originally granted a licence but rather by a new carrier with whom the authorised person concluded a business technical cooperation contract. In order to carry out the transport of passengers in accordance with the authorisation granted, a condition for the independent operation of the transport is introduced within one year from the date of issue of the authorisation. It is changed, better to say, to novelize the provisions of the current law relating to the quality of the rolling stock according to technical requirements classified from euro zero to euro three, which is one of the basic criteria for the allocation of licences to foreign carriers, in a way that determines the range to the euro five, because today it is a real state and level of quality of the rolling stock. Since the time of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the amendments to the laws will allow European carriers to use rental vehicles without drivers, of course under certain conditions of handling in those cases. Furthermore, from the moment of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, European carriers will be allowed to carry out so-called Cabotage, i.e. internal transport of passengers or cargo between individual places in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the principle of reciprocity applies here, so our carriers will be able to do so throughout the European Union. This provision does not apply, for example. for regular line transport of passengers in the urban and county areas. Transport of passengers in terms of cabotage may be part of international line transport of passengers. In doing so, a foreign carrier must comply with our normative rules at the time of driving, driving breaks, taxes, conditions for certain categories of passengers, technical conditions for vehicles, prices and conditions of transport. In the case of cabotage in freight transport, technical regulations and conditions must also be respected, in particular transport of dangerous substances, easily broken foods and live animals, taxes, prices and conditions of transport. The law also implies the possibility of a one-year government intervention if the invasion of foreign carriers occurs in our internal transport and the danger of the survival of a significant number of domestic carriers so that disturbances can be resolved and the stability of the domestic transport sector can be ensured. This is nicely said but for a long time, especially today, the transport profession knows and warns of problems and that it will be violent and earthquakeous if the Government does not urgently open talks with road carriers and takes steps to ensure that our and foreign carriers at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union are equal on our and European roads. They have been looking for this dialogue for a year because they want an even race on wheels with their European counterparts. Why doesn't the government take them in and go into action? We must be aware of the fact that there are now more than 160 thousand commercial vehicles in Croatia, and of road traffic directly and indirectly lives about 450 thousand people, which is 10% of our country's population. That two years ago, carriers filled 9% of the state budget and last year 7.2%. Isn't that supposed to be an alarm for the government? Road transporters ask why so much money was lost in the state register. And the worst is yet to follow if something urgent doesn't start to change. Because our carriers pay higher registration costs, higher tolls when registering and more expensive insurance. Transporters of individual countries are cheaper than our 20 percent and more because of lower entry costs. Now the carriers are still praying, and if there is no State hearing to discuss and solve the problem quickly and no later than before entering the European Union, they will adapt to the situation and withdraw moves that neither they nor the Government should. They will open companies abroad and earn profits from European countries, not Croatia. Here's the government gentlemen to stop it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9300	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9301	Honorable President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, allow me to present on behalf of the HSS Club my views regarding the proposed amendments and additions to the Law. This Proposal for a Law and these amendments, in fact, continues to adopt and adopt or harmonise the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the right, with the acquis of the European Union in a part that has not yet been harmonised and which concerns access to road transport, freight and passenger activities and, most importantly, access to the market in passenger and freight transport, and we think that this is good in view of our commitment and attitudes related to the market economy. We consider the solutions offered to comply with European Union regulations in the field of mutual recognition of diplomas, certificates and other evidence of competence to access road transport operators' activities, issue of driver certificates and take appropriate measures in the event of a crisis on the market for transport services. But we also want to point out something more specific to some of the details that we think about or suggest that we still consider or comply with the possibilities of finishing. More specifically, we are referring to Article 18, which is proposed to propose the places of purchase of passenger train tickets. However, we think that the possibility of obtaining tickets is neglected in the transport company itself as well as the purchase via the Internet. We believe that the passenger needs to be approached, relieved and especially in a modern electronic way to enable the fast purchase of tickets for the largest sales network. Secondly, we would like to point out the possibility of improving the provisions of Article 44 of the existing Law on the exercise of supervision of the provision of special line transportation of passengers, in particular the transport of children of primary schools. Here, when carrying out the transport of children in the vehicle, they can either be located or are mostly located and there should be a transport contract and a list of passengers but very often the transport is also used by children who are not on the list so high school students or other passengers and neither the inspection services are able to determine the identity of the child being transported. Because a clear child does not have IDs and certain documents, and for other passengers, the driver is not authorized to exercise control. Is it possible or is it possible to introduce certain identification cards as early as possible and to be able to control passengers? The Commission therefore considers whether there is an opportunity to consider certain possibilities of sanctioning as referred to in Article 27 and as regards Article 78 of the existing Act relating to the keeping of the vehicle's side of the licence and its correct and precise filling and prohibition of the modification of the data entered. These provisions are not sanctioned by an existing law which significantly makes it difficult to work with customs and inspection services because of the inability to punish and violaters, which put our interests in our carriers at risk. Then whether it is possible to consider eradicating the existing Law in Article 88, paragraph 3. indents: "at least one taxi position". And as a condition for obtaining a licence to provide station service activities. It is prescribed that all buses and stations, regardless of the category, must have a taxi stop. By Article 46 of the existing Law, a regulation on the regulation of taxi services shall be adopted by its rules of the units of local self-government. With us in the Republic of Croatia, 74 bus stations have been categorized and only 30% of their units of local self-government have brought these regulations about taxi service and thus expressed their need for this type of transport. As the vast majority is about smaller places where there is no need or interest in dealing with this transport it is absurd to require that all stations and even these 70% call it uninterested unnecessary obligations without a positive effect in providing transport services. Therefore, it may be necessary to abolish the legal obligation to hold a taxi position and to resolve this as one of the optional elements in the categorisation of bus stations under the applicable Regulation on the categorisation of bus stations. Then look at the possibilities of Article 4 which tells us: "All legal and natural persons involved in road transport of goods and passengers have the obligation of a practical one-year schooling of drivers who have recently completed their education according to this article referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 along with state financial support." It is asked of the state of subsidies to reduce the risk because the employer needs to invest a lot in training an auxiliary driver to become a professional driver in international road traffic, and it happens that after the employer invested in his training he leaves the company that trained him. A proposal for coordination of our road, passenger transport that, as soon as possible, all employers involved in road transport have an obligation to attend school, to enroll a driver. This would increase the number of trained drivers in the profession. Then, we point to the possibility of suspending parking payments when customs duties are imposed. We know that Croatian carriers pay between 100 and 140 kuna to enter the customs parking lot by truck where there is no way to say legal frameworks, and no justification for this payment. The concept of customs parking which is charged in this way as in the Republic of Croatia is unknown in the countries of the European Union, while domestic transporters represent a major imposition and share in business costs. Transporters consider this to be a very complex issue, but it is necessary to take a step towards reducing unnecessary operating costs that domestic carriers place in a non-competitive position on the side. We particularly highlight and support the content of the proposals that go towards simplifying the procedures for issuing individual documents, i.e. reducing the total administration. We believe that this alignment with the European Union rules will contribute to improving the road transport situation and will therefore support the proposed amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act, since, in addition to the above, the licensing process as well as the procedure for the temporary withdrawal of the licence, as well as the more effective supervision of road traffic inspection, which we think is extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9302	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9303	Honorable Vice President, esteemed ministers, distinguished gentlemen, MPs. What will be the consequences of this law? They are as such mentioned here in the explanation, so it is literally said that this law leads, among other things, to the harmonisation of the rules in the area of road crossing of passengers and burdens with the regulations of the European Union. Then, this is to regulate the area of access to the road transport market, the burden within the Community towards or from the territory of a Member State or transit through the territory of one or more Member States, the harmonisation of the conditions for the entry of the licence, the procedure and the jurisdiction for the temporary withdrawal of the licence or the execution of the licence and, inter alia, the determination of the conditions under which foreign carriers may perform the services of national road transport of passengers within a Member State, and I will put on that final or one of them in a manner and an emphasis in my debate. So, what does that really mean? Croatia will certainly see competition from third countries, better said from the countries of new Europe. They will drive more precisely, our transport market will open up to them. Following what is happening in Italy, they can only say that there are also polemics that will soon follow in Croatia. Every third truck I claim, from Venice to Udin or vice versa from Udin to Venice is a truck from Poland, from Romania, from Slovakia, from the Czech Republic, Lithuania, etc. But a truck not only transports goods for one Slovakia, Romania, the Czech Republic, but simply these trucks start to traffic and compete with their domestic carriers. As long as you're from Rijeka to Zagreb, I'm guessing you don't have 30 trucks in an hour. From Udin to Venice or vice versa in an hour that stock passes at least 1000 trucks within 24 hours, 20,000 trucks head towards Venice and from Venice towards Austria, Germany, etc. Okay, that's what it says about the power of their economy. It says that Europe is opening up as well. Far from the recession hitting one of Italy, but where are we then? But let's let it go now. To this competition, so from a new Europe mainly will either be able or will need to be counted by our carriers. But our carriers must clearly count on some of the advantages they will have when Europe and Croatia open. In order to be able to traffic in the European Union or European roads today, you must either have that cent, or you must have those international licences, which the competent ministry comes to by negotiating with its panda in Italy, Austria and the like. I claim that in the field of these international permits, there is an unprecedented crime in the area of the issue of these cents. Every so many or every few names are called for this or that, but I claim that even this crime in the administrations, I don't know in the ministries, the economic chamber needs to be put to rest. Here, and that is one of the reasons why Croatia needs, for example, the European Union. It means that our carriers could compete with everyone else without any administrative barriers or better said without any administrative preference because they know the minister, the secretary of state or whoever is at the head of the Chamber of Commerce. Now, if it is in Italy, it is free to say that every third carrier from the countries of new Europe, then surely more will work on that market in Austria, or I don't know which one it is for our carriers, especially those living in those border areas of the Republic of Croatia. And what is also good the next day when we enter the European Union will be less than one institutional corruption. But once again, I will say not so much now at the head of government or ministry as the head of the Chamber of Commerce who issue these permits. Those other who possess certain driving permits in my court as spoken here in the law should clearly retain it regardless of any more unfavourable conditions which we will introduce by this law. Which means now this periodic education that our drivers are going through, which will be determined by the minister, I think everyone should know in advance. I think those rules should go hand in hand to our drivers, some of whom have been driving for 30 or 40 years or more. I don't think the same, meaning drivers in this oddity should be additionally burdensome Article 6 speaks about the financial capacity of the carrier, which is that your first vehicle is worth at least 65 thousand kuna for each of the next 36 thousand kunas, but before I return to these permits and to this financial capacity, to mention one new institute. It's a confession of evidence, let's say a good reputation. This is evidence, better said belief of impunity since 42 municipal courts will be extinguished in Croatia, for example, the carrier from Buzet will have to go to Pazin now, so I appeal that municipal courts do not shut down, but that municipal courts join with the offenders, in fact vice versa, but I would also introduce here the principle that the carrier has fulfilled all its obligations to the state over the past 5 years, but also to some other users. This means the limitation period and deeper in history should not be entered, but also the data on how much legal persons owe to a carrier, the same should be found somewhere and something should perhaps be done in that direction. Our carriers are increasingly being blackmailed, if they want to get to work, they have to be clearly in charge of doing the job, and then they spend months and months to collect the job. The problem of billing in this country is becoming a norm, not primarily paying state-owned companies, and then clearly everyone else associated with them. And yet, we have this situation that the state becomes a non-payment generator, in health care for over a year, in transportation it's maybe 3.4 months, in some services it's 4.5 months, and I think that the state at least should affect the companies that are in their possession or owning it to make that payment as regular as possible. Why? Because it happens that the big one gets paid, but the poor one, the little one no longer gets paid, but he's clearly asked to pay both VAT and customs and taxes and everything else, etc., etc. And it needs to end in some way. Not that VAT and customs are paid, but that non-payment is regulated as such. However, the provisions on driver approvals from a non-member country and the procedure for granting authorisations of the European Union are interesting, but in my view, this Article 23, i.e. 85a and 85b. In this article 85a, it is literally said that the carriers that have a Community licence, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia without discrimination, means, without discrimination on the basis of the nationality of the carrier or of the business creation, on the principle of reciprocity, to carry out the internal transport of passengers, means cabotage without the obligation to establish representation or other form of business established in the Republic of Croatia. So, the emphasis is that without this business under the allegations of "inhabitation" they can do business in Croatia and the emphasis must be here on this reciprocity, i.e. reciprocity. Croatia is a small country, Croatia is a country of one destroyed industry, a country that is oriented to imports. Foreigners will become more and more competitors when it comes to transportation. Our trading chains are de facto owned by strangers or a good part of them, I don't know a Mercator, spar, Liddle, IKEA, Kaufland, I don't know what the name of "King Cross" is, etc. What is not owned by a stranger, clearly everything is private and will normally again be managed by some logic they will engage, domestic or foreign, a real or physical obligation, or they will form their own transport companies as is the case with one "Peveco" etc. We're exporting 10, 11 billion dollars of goods at this time, importing 21 to 22 billion dollars of goods, one good part of which is certainly 30, 40% distributed through these large trade chains. I claim that in 2.3 years, half of Croatia's imports will work for the party, and therefore the principle of reciprocity should be kept, so to speak as the pupil of my eye. When we enter the European Union, then we can do business without that reciprocity, but until we enter the European Union, we must insist on this reciprocity. Why am I saying that? Because it will be easier to get a license for Croatia than Croatian drivers will get a license for operating in the European Union because of the condition of the truck, etc. When we enter the European Union, it will be different, but until then it will be exactly as I am telling you, and that I am absolutely right to say this provision of Article 85.b, means measures in the case of a crisis on the market, where literally in paragraph 1, it is said that in the case of crisis and serious disturbances, I quote, "on the transport market, passengers and burdens in the Republic of Croatia for carrying out transport between states, membership and cabotage, the Government of the Republic of Croatia may refer a proposal to the European Commission for adoption of measures to protect domestic carriers and provide information on the measures it intends to take to protect domestic carriers" and in paragraph 2 of the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the protection of domestic carriers may take up to a maximum of 6 months with the possibility of a single extension. So, if I didn't follow these polemics that rule in Italy on the relation of domestic carriers and foreign ones, as a rule those from a new Europe who work for much less wages, etc., I wouldn't answer a word either, but this is how I want to express my concerns about this import character of the Croatian economy that will greatly affect NATO too, who is going to do this transport to Croatian roads. Second, our carriers should simply be protected from orderly payment until the institute referred to in Article 85.b. When Croatia enters the European Union, we will certainly profit from the European Union, the carriers will profit, but until then, gentlemen need to survive clearly, and how the wild price of toll, how the wild price of oil or fuel, will simply, which will grow clearly, become more and more difficult from day to day, because with this oil used by carriers, all other products will be tied together. One of the big problems with these wildling prices is the fact that the government is not doing anything about it, but the fact that we privatized In 2002 for some change, not to say for a fool, which, even after the privatisation of banks, is perhaps one of the biggest mistakes that has been made. So for the end, gentlemen, we also take care of domestic carriers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9304	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9305	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, even though we're used to the co-worker grades of fellow Caine that we can't react to the incorrect allegations he made when he said that the state is not fulfilling its obligations, not paying, or creating debts. That's not true. The State, i.e. the Government and the Ministry, are making their commitments to all budgetary users neatly, according to the budget adopted by us. And the other thing is, it's completely untrue that the state pays big, and it doesn't pay small. It is through the budget that the state takes care of all the small and the socially endangered and through this same budget that all the necessary, all the necessary resources provided for in the budget are regularly obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9306	SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9307	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the Road Transport Law proposal. In fact, we would also like to highlight the quality shown in this law for the reasons why certain directives are really covered by this law, the standards prescribed by the European Union, but it is also evident that the ministry has communicated with Croatian economics, means with road public transport participants and their interests have also been incorporated into this law. We therefore have, on the one hand, a European regulation, on the other hand, and the protected interests of Croatian businessmen and that is the quality of the law which is undeniable. It is also possible to read something else from this law, which is that more European carriers are afraid of the competition of Croatian carriers than our shareholders are afraid of competition. Therefore, although we are a strong country by import, it is evident that Croatian businessmen are assessing that such a law, such solutions will also allow for work abroad and will be able to expand their field of work. Therefore, a law that will welcome Croatian businessmen. At the SDP club, we might see one risk. As much as we estimate that the abolition of age of vehicles in freight or passenger transport can now please our Croatian carriers, it is evident that it is a provision of this law that can put Croatian businessmen to sleep and perhaps I would say relax people in the ministry so as not to take care of their better position. As much as we estimate that we have pluses, it is evident that this is one long-term minus because with an old rolling stock, with an unquality rolling stock not only will Croatian businessmen not be able to be present on European roads but it will simply lose their burden in domestic cabotage and that means one of the reliefs that should be used at this time so that the really ministry will try to prepare a specific programme and using funds perhaps even the Environmental Protection Fund to help Croatian owners rebuild the fleet. Without a new fleet, it is evident that he will not be able to be present in a domestic cabotage for a few years. We also assess quality solutions that speak of the need to meet certain criteria for future authorisation and that they are one of the most important criteria of the quality of the rolling stock. Therefore, we estimate that the less and less impact of administrations, the less and less likely to show dissatisfaction with the method of distribution that will remain temporarily. A significant newspaper is also a periodic training of drivers and perhaps we should try to connect on behalf of the club I would say this law with the Transport Safety Act. If I am not mistaken in that law that we will likely discuss in a few days, you will also see that the issue of driver education is regulated. What does that mean in two different laws almost the same provision? This merely indicates that when the SDP Club tried to say that the concept of the Transport Safety Act is unquality and that the concept should be changed, that the simple Ministry of Maritime Affairs must take responsibility for proposing and controlling such laws, that their domain and technical correctness of the vehicle, technical characteristics of the vehicle, that it is also concerned about the education of professionals, so I would say even the Ministry of Science and Education that they must offer solutions in that part, and that only that safety on the roads is something that could be combined between the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Interior, would give quality solutions. And this is how we will see that certain things are regulated into two different laws, although it is evident that this is an area of the Transport Act in road transport and that in part of education, the Ministry of Transport is far more qualified in me than the Ministry of the Interior. So on our part, this newspaper and the introduction of these provisions are also more of a quality for the legislative proposal. It is evident that Croatian farmers in the fight for competitiveness will have to take great care of the stronger financial strength and therefore the provisions of this law that speak of strengthening the financial capacity to obtain a licence is something that means a battle for the stronger competitiveness of Croatian businessmen, so I would say their preparation for tomorrow's stronger competition in domestic cabotage. So much for the SDP club. Therefore, a quality law that has reconciled both Europe and domestic interests, and that is why we will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9308	Thank you. Secretary of State Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9309	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Let me look back with a few comments on this part of the debate, the debate you had on behalf of your clubs. First of all, I want to say that this Law, as well as almost all those who come from the vault, which I have had the opportunity to defend behind this speaker, was created in cooperation with the profession, in cooperation with the industry. This dialogue, this Law was also no exception. It was created after a truly intense, constructive and fruitful dialogue with carriers, with their associations, with economic chambers, with a crafts chamber. I therefore believe that this is a concrete, quality and balanced proposal that will bring about significant improvements in practice. I want a few concrete remarks that have been made, to try to clarify from this place. On behalf of the HSS Club here, there was a suggestion that certain changes would simplify the operation of taxis and were concerned, there was concern about those parts where the local self-government unit did not prescribe the conditions for taxi drivers. We believe that there is no legal gap, as has been said, but that, in such cases, a potential provider of taxi transport services can obtain his licence and without that act, the competent unit of local self-government, through the direct application of this Act. Furthermore, the remarks made here on behalf of Mr Cain's IDS club, arguing first that there was a particular crime in the ministry on the issue of permits. I'd like to deny it here and argue by dividing the so-called The central permit works in a mixed commission in which most of the Associations of Carriers of the Chamber of Commerce have. It is the first element, the most important element and the guarantee that perhaps some attempts in the direction, as was said, are reduced to a minority or to a minimum, and all the results are published on the Internet, so one complete transparency of the results of the commission's work, in a certain way of guarantee that we can't really say in general and in general that it's a crime, and I'm saying about the individual attempts we're preventing, it remains an obligation to do so. It was also held that it should go to the European Union without delay. Such anxiety has resulted in claims that Croatian transport will be exposed to ruthless competition and that we should protect domestic carriers. We, preparing joint negotiating positions last year, together with the carriers first commissioned an expert impact study, possible postponement of the cabotage Regulation for carriers or applications from the date of entry into the European Union. This expert basis has resulted in the overall view of the Croatian economy, for Croatian carriers better if this problem is approached in a way that the directive is applied immediately, in other words simplified, so that from the day of entry into the European Union, Croatian road carriers can have access to the internal market of the Member States, so that cabotage can be carried out in the area of the Member States. Of course, it does, and open the same for their vehicles. Such an attitude is supported in one, indeed almost unique atmosphere, almost unanimously, of course there have been several exceptions and several that I consider to come out of the concern that this other part of increased competition on the domestic market will also cause certain instability. However, the responsibility of the authorities involves looking at the problem as a whole and choosing the solution that is best in a given moment. So this is our proposal. It is true that Mr Linic said that Europe is in some way talking about just over 10 thousand vehicles, despite the fact that it is a weak rolling stock of Croatian road transporters, when it comes to international transport, but that Europe is afraid to have more competition on its roads than Croatian carriers should fear having European competition on their roads. With that claim, I think that it is perfectly correct and that it can draw the conclusion that we are giving the transporters who have the strength to develop, who have the capacity to think and act pro-pulsively, and which, however, the current system, is a restrictive system imposed on countries that are not currently Member States, where we have just over 900 cents, so only 900 units can simultaneously cruise European roads of 10 and a half thousand vehicles that have an international licence. So we can figure out for ourselves that's really one restrictive factor. Through the negotiations, we will seek to regulate this issue in a way that allows us to access without delay, although at this point from the circles of the carrier with a smaller number of vehicles and a weaker state in businesses come warnings that we should simply accept the proposal for a postponement. And I hope that, through the best solution, we will allow prosperity to the widest circle of carriers. Here, so much for now. The debate will continue, there will be more opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9310	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9311	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for these amendments is another one of the alignment of our legislation with European Union legislation in the transport policy chapter in the activities of freight and passenger road transport, as well as on access to the common market. New conditions are foreseen for drivers of individual categories, actually professional drivers and the obligation of their periodic education. From the date of accession to the European Union, all carriers from the Member States of the European Union shall be allowed to carry out cabotage in the transport of passengers and freight. It also introduces an obligation to issue a licence for companies as well as utility units of local self-government. The possibility and withdrawal of the licence is foreseen, which is also to be welcomed. The relevant change relates to the professional training of the carrier where certain knowledge is sought from civil, labour, social, tax, road safety, etc. Perhaps it is an interesting paper provision on how to recognise evidence of good reputation as one of the conditions for obtaining licences for both legal and natural persons. So, in addition to what we have become accustomed to evidence of impunity, a statement is introduced by the judicial administrative authority of the responsible person who also in some way becomes a document. The quality of the rolling stock from zero to five is also introduced. The business criterion for the use of the vehicle is technical safety, not the age of the vehicle, which we have had so far on certain occasions. The scope of the rental vehicles without drivers for road freight is also regulated. Of course, all of this would work, so that there would be no dead letter on paper, allowing road traffic inspection to be more effective infringing measures. Violent measures must follow these new regulations, as well as the old ones, of course. Furthermore, in order for these amendments to the Road Transport Act to be fully applicable, it will be necessary to adopt and amend a number of our implementing rules so far. Some of these changes will also cause major changes in the current conditions and practices of our carriers. For some, they will be painful, but they should be supported for their future readiness, so for the better in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9312	Vice President of the House Mr. Agent Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9313	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. I have come forward for this debate not so much because of the content of road traffic-related legal solutions, but primarily because, for example, this law, and based on the amendments submitted by the Committee on Law, I would like to come to a common position on a perhaps nomotechnical, perhaps even international-legal fact or on our determination of that fact. It is said in the amendments to the Legislative Committee that certain parts of this law are being applied not from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union as set out in the original proposal of the Proposer, but from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. For some, perhaps even for most of us here in the Croatian Parliament, such an amendment may seem almost irrelevant and nomotechnical in order, but I am afraid that it has a deep meaning in terms of understanding the very structure of the European Union, the very nature of the European Union. The distinction between whether Croatia is being admitted into the European Union, whether it is Croatia's accession to the European Union, or whether it is about the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is not an irrelevant issue. In my opinion, Croatia is still joining the European Union and is not being admitted into the European Union. This is an active process where, in the event of Croatia's accession to the European Union, it would be the decision of the Member States to accept Croatia into the European Union. However, the process of enlargement of the European Union and the very nature of the European Union does not work that way. Members of the European Union do not receive a Member State as a member of the European Union but, on the basis of the conditions met, they decide to join the European Union. This is why it is not about accession because the nature of the European Union is not that it is a solid state community or a Federation, and it is then receiving new members but rather about a specific alliance in which countries join. To this end, accession and non-receivement is also the subject of the agreements signed by the countries of the European Union, which are usually translated from foreign languages or when the texts in foreign languages are seen,... in German,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in French, everything, the Croatian version is accession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would therefore propose that, in principle, on this example and in the future in a nomotechnical sense, when laws are passed or certain parts of the laws adopted when their entry into force is determined, only after the time when Croatia becomes part of the European Union, that it is then no-technically expressed in force from the date of accession of the European Union, and not how the Committee on Legislatives proposes on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Another note might be more instructive. In the light of these amendments, the Legislative Committee states that there is a need to regulate, that there are nootechnic deficiencies in this law, that the text of this law should then be corrected in a corrective and editorial manner and that the same definitions should be harmonised, and then the same terms should be specified. It is said the European Community and the European Union. The European Community and the European Union are not yet identical concepts. The European Community system is still functioning over all those issues which are in the jurisdiction of Member States or countries common at Community level and the European Union is already working on those pillars as a second legal term. However, following the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, the European Community will be abolished, but at this moment the European Community and the European Union is not an identical term and should not be re-educed or not, and it must not even be given the right by the draft to convert the terms of the European Communities anywhere in the text into the term of the European Union or vice versa, but rather, to retain the distinction that the applicants, on which they account and which are in the drafts themselves, are introduced in the very proposals of such laws. This, I say, was one intervention that is not as much related to the content of the law as it is to the total total of our legislative activities and the nomotechnical in the accession of Croatia to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9314	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9315	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquiss of the European Union is one of the conditions of approximation to the European Union, and the obligation arising from the negotiating positions with Chapter XIV. Transport policies from April of this year in Brussels. This law provides for the erasure of the provisions on the limitation of the age of vehicles carrying out road transport, passenger and freight activities in order to fully comply with European Union regulations. By adopting these amendments and supplementing the laws, buses carrying children will not have to be less than 10 years old and other vehicles carrying the transport of passengers and cargo from 18 years to 2012 as it is the only restriction, it introduces the technical correctness of those vehicles. For road safety, technical correctness of a vehicle which must be regularly controlled as well as conditioned technical conditions that ensure the set standards is relevant. The provisions of the applicable Act on the age of vehicles which can be carried out by public and road transport of passengers and freight, although they have caused a lot of debate between supporters and opponents, have affected the awareness of the carrier in terms of accepting the duty of the process of rejuvenation of the rolling stock and the obligation to raise the level of technical safety of the vehicle carried out by the transport of passengers, in particular children. Buses and freight motor vehicles used in public road transport during the year shall be subject to regular preventive and extraordinary technical checks. The mechanisms and controls shall be governed by specific regulations which allow technically invalid and insecure vehicles to be out of service. According to the 2007 data, a total of a million 706 thousand 592 vehicles whose average age is 10.5 years have joined the technical review. Of that number, the total number of buses in the Republic of Croatia is 4000 541 with 12 thousand, at 12.3 years of age. And the number of cargo vehicles is 139 thousand 995 average age 10.5 years. The provisions of the Road Transport Act which are now in force since 2004 are partly in line with the legal gains of the European Union in the field of access to public road transport activities of passengers and freight, as well as mutual recognition of diplomas, certificates and other evidence of professional training. The objective of the amendment and addition of the Road Transport Act is to facilitate the right of carriers to the freedom of business to enter internal and international road transport. One of the most important amendments to the Law on road transport also refers to the possibility of carrying out... transport of passengers and cargo between individual places in Croatia carried out by a foreign carrier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the transport of passengers and burdens that Community carriers under the provisions of the Act which is now in force are not allowed to carry out cabotage except with special permission from the ministries. Under the proposal of this Act, carriers and Member States of the Community shall be allowed, on the principle of reciprocity and on a provisional basis, to carry out cabotages in the transport of passengers and cargo, but from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and to prescribe measures in the case of... market crises due to cabotage. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, mutual recognition of diplomas, certificates and other evidence of formal qualifications for access to the activities of the road carrier is also arranged, and certification for drivers, if the driver is not a Member of the European Union. For the first time, the law defines the acquisition of initial qualifications and periodic education for drivers of certain categories of vehicles, every five years. Conditions for granting public authority to centres that will carry out driver training and which will be carried out through a public tender. This will ensure the verification of the knowledge and expertise of drivers performing these tasks in public road transport of passengers and loads, thus achieving a better expertise in driving training. This way of initial qualifications and periodic training of drivers is fully in line with European Union legislation in this area. These, as so far, will be recognised as the testimony of high school centres given to students after completing regular, three-year secondary education. The fact is that the driver has acquired an initial qualification, i.e. the fact that the driver successfully completed periodic training, will be entered in the driver’s driver’s license. Furthermore, this bill for the first time regulates the use of rental vehicles for drivers, without drivers on road freight transport, and allows the use of vehicles that have been hired by carriers established in another Member State of the European Union. And this provision will apply from the date of Croatia's accession to the European Union. I think there is a problem here, and I think that the legislator will resolve this later on by law, if there is a rental of a vehicle, and the vehicles are registered in other countries, if it becomes mass, we know that our roads are financed from motor vehicle registration fees, mainly county and local roads and tolls are paid in the country or in the place where the vehicles are registered, so if they are to a greater extent, there will be significant, difficulties in financing county and local roads. This draft law also introduces a gradual increase in the amount of financial capacity to obtain an internal road transport licence until the date of Croatia's accession to the European Union when amounts showing financial capacity will be leveled with internal and international transport. That exception shall apply only until the date of accession of Croatia to the European Union. This proposal complements, or amends one of the basic criteria for the distribution of foreign licences to carriers, which refers to the quality of the rolling stock according to technical requirements classified from euro zero to the euro five, which is consistent with the actual state and quality of the rolling stock, the carrier, which carries out the carriage of the load. In this way, the criterion relating to a technical, modern and environmentally-acceptable vehicle whose supply must also result in an increase in the number of waters for the distribution of those licences is also harmonised. This proposal also allows inspection, road traffic inspections to carry out inspection controls on the implementation of this Act through certain technical, light solutions. The same Article also provides for a prescribed authorisation for the adoption of a sub-legislative act to regulate the way and conditions of use of technical and light solutions and vehicles which will be specially equipped with the agreement of the Minister of Internal Affairs. The passing of this law as well as that law that we will pass in the future, the road safety law will certainly improve the safety of our roads, and as such I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9316	Thank you. In 10 and 40, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Mr. Representative Milivoy Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9317	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on road transport is one more in a series of laws whose provisions go towards the final harmonisation of Croatia's legal acquis with that of the European Union. Its adoption by the Final Proposal of the Law, and by emergency procedure, is necessary to meet the negotiating positions set out in Chapter 14 or Chapter of the Transport Policy. However, regardless of the urgency of adopting and the need to fulfil the obligations to join the European Union and this law as a consequence, and all others are brought about by us and it is important to regulate relations in the activities of road transport of passengers and freight and market access in this important economic activity. This Law therefore regulates access to the market for the transport of goods within Member States to or from the territory of the Member States and transport through their territory. The conditions of carrying out this activity, the professional training of drivers, the mutual recognition of diplomas, certificates and other evidence of the necessary qualification are regulated, and this should ultimately enable carriers to access jobs in national but above all international transport. Further arrangements shall be made to align the conditions with, for the issue of a licence with evidence of professional competence and financial capacity, and the procedure and jurisdiction for their temporary withdrawal. Determination of the conditions under which foreign carriers may carry out national road transport services of passengers and cargo, conditions and means of obtaining initial qualifications, and periodic training of drivers professionally performing this activity shall be introduced. One of the essential elements of this proposal is, in any event, the one concerning the abolition of restrictions on the age of the vehicle carrying out the public transport activity of passengers and freight. Therefore, buses carrying children will no longer have to be under 10 and other vehicles of 18 years of age, as the only condition sets out the technical correctness of the vehicle which must pass during the year regular preventive and extraordinary technical checks. So far, in this respect, and as the carriers warned, there was contradiction so that school buses had to be under 10 years old, but at the same time children could travel to older buses. The safety of children is certainly the most important but control and surveillance mechanisms embedded in this proposal must enable technically invalid vehicles to be excluded from traffic and there will certainly be an expression of the need for increased and very responsible supervision. The regulation of this activity and the introduction of the obligation of permanent driver education will certainly lead to increased road safety, and this is our goal especially when it comes to public transport of passengers. The increase in the amount of financial capacity to obtain a licence in internal road transport until accession to the European Union, after which it will be equated with the international one, is one of the ways in which this law will also affect the increase in the quality of the provision of this service. This proposal amends and complements the Law on road transport of goods and passengers also introduces the need for licensing and for companies, public institutions, their own units of local self-government to carry out the municipal activity carried out by transport, which have so far been released. In this way, everything in line with the acquis of the European Union is evend. Access to this activity to all those participating in it should be subject to the same conditions. One of the more important issues of this proposal is certainly the one about the possibility of making cabotage, i.e. transport of passengers or cargo between individual places in Croatia by a foreign carrier. From the moment of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. At the same time, however, measures are being prescribed in the event of a crisis and market disturbances which leave the Government with the possibility of intervention to protect domestic carriers. However, if compliance with the legal acquis of the European Union on the basis of reciprocity opens the domestic market to foreign transport, then it should also be reiterated that, in the same way, the mutual recognition of evidence of driver training is also regulated. For the first time, the proposal regulates the acquisition of initial qualifications and introduces periodic training for drivers to be entered in driving licences. This should also help to improve the quality of road transport services and to increase traffic safety in general. As we could read from the amendment proposal and the addition of this Act, one of the basic criteria for the distribution of licences to carriers is also changed, which refers to the quality of the rolling stock they have, according to the technical requirements of the engine Euro 0 to Euro 5. Professional associations have long warned of the growing problem of non-licensed carriers operating on the market and representing unfair competition and operating in the gray economy zone. For this reason, their requests are understandable to the legislator who is expected to intervene effectively in preventing them. The provisions provided for in this proposal for a law will allow road traffic inspection to finally work effectively in such a way that in cases where public transport is carried out by natural and legal persons who are not registered and licensed, they may withdraw the vehicle by the end of the infringement. From what I can tell, from the things that this problem is being solved, I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9318	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9319	Thank you very much. Your Honors Minister, Your Honor, I'm going to be talking about two types of vehicles, buses and trucks. And while I understand really that after I think 3 or 4 delays, the government has proposed that one of the criteria for trucks be abolished is that the age of the vehicle has never been applied in the law, and I think it is positive because the technical correctness of the vehicle here is really sufficient. There are some other criteria now, such as the amount of exhaust gas that will limit the possibility of using these vehicles in international transport, in national obviously it will not be so important. On the other hand, I am surprised that the age limit for buses is also lifted, especially for buses carrying school children. This law, this article of this law, could be translated in a colloquy that this is a law so that children can be transported on buses older than them. I don't think that's good. In particular, it is not good or not in agreement with the intensities and the conclusions reached by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 2 May 2008 where it literally concludes: “It is recommended to units of local and regional (regional) self-government which discuss in their field a concession for line transportation from and to school of primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia, that they take special care of the age of the vehicle and with a view to improving the safety of the transport of children. Now, I don't know what this conclusion is. Why did the government draw this conclusion at the same time as it abolished the age of the bus for the transport of these children. That's one thing. And two. How in the Public Procurement Act, i.e. the decision to obtain linear transport and award concessions, the age of the vehicle will be installed when it is contrary to this law, i.e. the Public Procurement Act. Such a contest will simply fall. And I suggest maybe we go back to school kids the age of a bus, because I don't think it would be good if the kids were driving on buses that are over 10 or, say, now there could be a bus over 25 years old. There's no reason. I think it is necessary to invest in the safety of the transport of school children especially because we had accidents in the Pleternica, in Sibenik, I don't know where we haven't had everything yet, where they were driving de facto buses that were completely technicalally correct. They've passed a technical checkup. They were technically correct, but they were simply no longer responding to what new life had brought, which is why we need to take care of safety. Or we need to do a different technical checkup for that kind of bus. Secondly, this law makes some rules out of this law. These rules are implemented in such a way that de facto older buses cannot meet those rules, such as the obligation that the bus for transporting children must be yellow from the front and the back. Now, here we end the age of the bus as per me, and the opposite of the government's conclusion that the age of the bus has a direct connection or a correlation is with the safety of the children. But we prescribe it has to be yellow, for example. Either we prescribe the basis of the decision, or the minister's rule, that he must have his seat belts on the bus. Therefore, I think that really for school transporting children should make some kind of government plan of maybe three or four years in which they would say that all buses to transport children must be replaced. There's no reason to buy a misdemeanor, then use it to transport children. They are used to transport children to Croatia buses that cannot have normal lines. I just can't take it. I don't know a hundred or 200km line or a relationship. Therefore, we must return the whole story to that and indeed take care of the child’s only safety. It's not expensive, because concessionaries need to be forced to invest. I can't have concessionaires buying old buses, but I want him to buy new buses. Because what they charge from local self-government units, so cities and counties are like carrying children on new buses. The price is not like driving in old buses or you can have, look, to reanalyze cities that have new buses such as Koprivnica or the City of Zagreb do not have a higher price than some other cities that drive simply in violation. The transport price is the same. We need to get through school transport and promote sustainable transport. The new buses certainly release less CO2 into the environment than the older buses behind which you can't drive because it's such a smoke curtain to threaten the driver behind the bus safety of taking part in traffic. And finally, it would be good, indeed, and I appeal to the ministers and to the government to make that one multi-year plan to even promote that these buses go to bio diesel. But to stimulate, so concessionaries do, because today, of course, without subsidies or stimulation, there is no action. If we're going to stimulate transporters to buy new buses, if we're going to stimulate them to use bio diesel in something that's part of the education process, because the transportation of children to school and from school can also be defined as part of the educational process, and if we tell them that they have to behave in the future towards their environment, then I think we can influence it. If we drive them in decomposing buses, which in one way or another have passed the technical examination and which releases the smokescreen behind it, I think we're sending a completely wrong message. And I really suggest here, that we go back to the conclusion of the government which has been purely frigid since 2 May 2008 and that we determine, therefore, that it is in direct correlation between the age of buses and the safety of transportation of children and that it is limited to staying for the 10 years, and that it is binding on the Government to form a program in which in the next 4 years or until the time that the secondary school in Croatia is fully mandatory, and then the transportation of children from high school will be fully mandatory, so that buses must be completely new, or not older at that time of 4 years. Secondly, I'd like to speak a few words here on behalf of road transporters from my county. They're having an extremely big problem with drivers right now. The law passed, and in this text of the law, it is prescribed that in international transport drivers aged 21 can participate or drive trucks. Unfortunately, it creates an extremely big problem, because at this point, there are not enough old drivers on the market who would be willing to drive the helmets, especially towards the east. My driver's proposal is to bring that border down to 20 years as it is in the European Union. So, we don't need to raise to 21 years and I don't think it's gonna matter between 20 and 21 years at the same time to introduce an auxiliary driver, or a trainee driver who's gonna have to get an international experience between 18 and 20. So we now have a situation where our student finishes high school at 17 or 18, at 18 he can drive, so all categories of KV in drivers, but he can't drive anything but national traffic and less weight. And now you have a situation so that he simply doesn't get the experience of driving by the age of 21, but drives a van around town, and then suddenly after his 21st birthday, he gets the right and the ability to drive in international transport. And then the owner, or the one who gives him to drive the truck, must invest a certain amount of time in it because, of course, it is necessary to gain that international experience. So there are two proposals and I have also instructed such an amendment to remove the age limit from 21 to 20 years, which is in line with the practice of the European Union. And secondly, to introduce, the Institute of Assistant Drivers or Trainee Drivers where employers, together with the Employment Service or the Ministry of Education or Transport, would subsidise the costs of the first year of work of such a driver who would gain experience. One more sentence just please, so here is the law, but after the rules are made, at this point they warned me that there are problems with the registration of tow vehicles because, allegedly in the rulebook it says that the spare tire must be on a tow vehicle, and it can't be because the trucks have 2 tanks or because of the length of the route or because they have oil and gasoline and can't simply, new trucks cannot be registered under that rule at the moment. We talked about it on the board, I don't know if the secretary of state checked it out, so it's a practical problem for the carriers in Croatia, where the one who prescribes certain rules doesn't look like the truck doesn't look or says that here's the spare tire has to be, and simply can't be on the truck.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9320	Thank you. A few replicas. First, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9321	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to replicate my colleague about this 12-year-old limit that we've been talking about before. In fact, it's kind of discriminatory about those who approach activities and that's the only reason she can't stop. So she's not standing for that reason. However, this bill introduces a whole new standard. New criteria that will mean a real improvement in terms of competition and in terms of all those who want to deal with this activity to get new vehicles. The introduction of new standards such as Euro 0 points to Euro 5 and other technical criteria will actually mean increasing quality, purchasing new vehicles environmentally acceptable because when those who want to deal with this activity report to the competition and when one of the criteria is an environmentally acceptable vehicle, they will certainly get it from someone who has a new vehicle, not the one who has an old vehicle of 15 years that does not meet those criteria. It is therefore that these entrepreneurs will be stimulated to purchase new vehicles to be competitive and to get jobs because jobs will be obtained through a public tender, so on the market, that is. These are these new criteria and it is built in as a guarantee of supply and quite certainly new vehicles and on our market I think it will certainly be good for our employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9322	Replication response. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9323	You see, fellow Matušić, that would be O.K. if it were really to be applied. However, some buses or unfortunately more than 50% of the bus that drives school children in Croatia cannot go to international traffic. They can't cross the border because they don't meet the standards of the country they'd go to. Now the question arises if it's discriminatory that I suggest that there must be some age or we don't have to put an end to age. We're saying it has to be Euro 4 and Euro 5 engines. I also agree to this variant, and we here say that everything that has at least four wheels, a steering wheel and can pass a technical examination, can drive school children. It can't go through the state border and it's discriminatory if it's your way, so if you can't go to Europe anymore with Euro 1 or Euro 2 but you have to have Euro 4 or Euro 5, and I don't know what, then why don't we also prescribe it for our children? Well, I guess we don't care about the goods we drive to Europe and the trucks we drive there anymore, but what we have here in Croatia. I accept your thesis, but then instead of the age of the bus driving the children, let's sign off on a motorcycle that has to have. It's got to have Euro 4, Euro 5, and I totally agree with that, but Euro 4 doesn't have a bus that's over 5, 6 years old. There's no 10-year-old bus with Euro 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9324	Second replica. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9325	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd also like to replicate and say a few words when it comes to getting new buses. We know ourselves that we are not able, or those who are engaged in transportation, to buy new vehicles. But when it comes to the Pleternica accident you mentioned, I'd like to say that the problem is in technical examinations. It's not a problem in older buses either, but it's a word that certain technical checks don't do the job they should be doing. Well, among other things, what happened at the Pleternica, the gentleman who did the transport, he went to a technical inspection, specifically in Djakovo, and at the same time, there are two technical inspection stations in Požega and he didn't perform there. Why? Because these buses in Požega can't pass a technical examination. At the same time, however, we should review other technical inspection cells. Why it can pass in other cities, and it can't pass in its own, and I think there's a basic problem and we should definitely deal with it. And buy new buses, we all know that would be the best solution, but certainly not possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9326	Replication response. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9327	I can agree and disagree with you about getting new buses. In Koprivnica we bought new buses 5 and by the end of the year a concessionaire who wants to transport children to Koprivnica must get all the new buses or will not drive them. He'll either get those buses, or he won't get a job in Koprivnica for transporting children. I have appealed here that the government is drawing up a four-year plan to enable those who are engaged in transporting people and transporting goods because it is not just busses, I have drawn attention to buses, but the big problem our carriers also have with discrimination in Europe where they can no longer ride engines that are not Euro 4 or even Euro 5. So, for them too, I think that the state should make a plan, I have a Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency where money is paid in registration and from that fund should form subsidies so that people who really work, people who want to improve that job and safety and reduce the harmful environmental impact can get new vehicles. And as for the cells for the technical examination, I agree, or cannot agree. The question is whether the technical inspection station in Djakova is still working. What are the supervisory services doing? Well, the vehicle centre must be controlled by the technical inspection stations. If there's a problem at the technical inspection stations, then let's do something else. But I really think a bus that's over 10 years old doesn't need to carry kids, that's one thing. And secondly, that whoever wants to get a job and it's a big, solid, well-paid job, a whole-year job can invest in a new bus for a period of three or four years, especially if the state supports such activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9328	And Madam Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9329	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. In his debate, counterpart Mršić stressed the need to encourage the use of biodiesel in public urban transport. I absolutely agree with that and it is already through the coalition agreement defined and has become an integral part of this government's programme. And that there are positive examples also of the City of Zagreb where exactly 20 buses drive in public urban transport are driven on bio- diesel. What makes me particularly happy is that this bio- diesel produced from the oily rape from Sisak-Moslavina County from which I come, and we managed to put the surfaces that were unsanitary to put into operation the oily turnip, establish a cooperative relationship with the biodiesel producers in Ozlje, and today, the Zagrebs are riding precisely on the biodiesel produced in Sisak-Moslavina County, which significantly contributes less to environmental pollution and for this reason, but also for the reason that we have an obligation to take over directives from the European Union, we believe that it is extremely important to stimulate the production of renewable energy sources and their use, but also biofuels.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9330	Replicate response, Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9331	Well, of course Mrs. Petyr and I agree on this. However, not all that is written or not implemented in the coalition agreement is written. But we have to encourage it. But we can't stop at encouraging just the production of the biodiesel. We need to take a step further, we need to start encouraging those who use truly less harmful or renewable energy. So the carriers that would move on to the biodiesel must be stimulated. In Koprivnica, one of the largest or largest bio- diesel refineries in Croatia is currently being built. I know that boys have very big problems and some technological solutions, but it's also completely undefined with the state that they're going to appear on the market. So it's no longer as small a production as it was in Ozli and what it has in Virovitica. So this is the industry now, the big refinery, but they're facing very serious problems. How the state is going to treat the biodiesel, whether it will all be imposed on normal fuel, where it will be sold and ultimately the problem is whether, and I appeal, we will stimulate those who use biodiesel in their vehicles. And here the state is the most invited because it acts completely educationally, so on the transport of school children it shows what they need, what they expect from citizens. If the state does not use its example, it is difficult to expect citizens to do something other than those of few who have a highly developed consciousness. So we could really show what we expect from citizens here, which is that we have new buses, safe buses, less energy-consuming buses, or fuels, and that spends bio- diesel which is significantly less harmful to the environment than any other fuel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9332	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9333	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here we have heard a lot today about the law, and I am glad that the ministry is today proposing two laws that we are in line with European Union regulations. I think this debate of ours, that they will not only end here, but there will be a lot more talking about the age of the vehicle, all possible comments, all the possible situations that happened with the buses, first of all, and the trucks. And while trucks, at least that's the perception, there's more and more new trucks on the roads, and we see that statistically, in bus transport we still have a lot of problems. I'll be the third in a row to look at this school transport. I have to commend here my colleague, Škorc, who pointed out that the transportation by school buses is controlled, but the excursions of children, and they are also an obligation. So during school, all the kids have to take a few trips during the year, get out of school. They're almost out of control and it's a disaster from buses carrying such children. These trips are far larger relationships than school buses, driving on large, long rides, and here there are numerous cases of malfunctioning, stopping, rest of the bus, bringing in a new bus, etc. So I agree that the years of the bus age are not a major obstacle. The important thing is how long that bus has passed, how much it is, how it is held first of all, and here we heard and the station for the technical examination is also often a stone of interference. Namely normally that the owners of the station for technical inspection here and there are trying to pass the voice that is a little softer review there to actually have higher income, because the fact where they function exclusively than what they charge through the technical examination and there should be stricter controls, there should be extremely rigorous. I suppose there will be a lot to contribute to the more significant marking of school buses. I can understand the absolute carriers. Namely, carriers send the oldest they have, the worst they have, because the damage that students do inside is often very large. But there's insurance there, there's a possibility of charging insurance companies, and you shouldn't be squirming about it right now. As far as license obligations are concerned, I mean licenses and other companies. So let's see some companies have far more cars on the roads than significant carriers, and I think that's very good. Of course, every license can be contained in a gray market, and thanks to God, it's always found. I read that besides the rest, it is forbidden to transport foreigners in county and city transport. When we look at Zagreb County and transport to Zagreb County, then we can say that how much transportation is carried out by quality buses in the western part of the county, but I think that the north and east of Zagreb County has a lot of problems and that competition would be very welcome. Because even where it's relatively well organised, residents are sued for a small number of lines, and competition is practically gone, and I'm not talking where bad buses and a small number of lines are, dissatisfied residents, expensive transportation, etc., so that in the future it might take some time to think about competition on concessions and on the county level. One problem that continues to arise. We notice that if we go on highways, a large number of foreign carriers continue to drive on the highways, avoid highways in all possible ways because they save something, but create an indescribable crowd on yet relatively narrow roads. And what my colleague Vukic said, clearly, we can't charge them for maintenance because, well, it's only ours. There, there is still a need to support the introduction of biodiesel in the urban area. I think we have enough land not to be threatened by the situation, as the world is now showing hunger and something like that, that we have enough land to start dealing with more seriously biodiesel. And I believe while here in Koprivnica the refinery is made that the laws will also be harmonised Yeah. [[Intruder: It's already.]] It's already done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9334	Thank you. Replica. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9335	I want to replicate my colleague Markovanovic, but it's also about my colleague, Petir. In fact, we've been talking about biodiesel for ten years, but I'd say we're just talking, because maybe I'd say let's cut to the chase. Because instead of increasing the surface under the oily tail, it's year after year on ever smaller surfaces. Today we're talking about the embarrassing 6,000 acres of oiled rape. In prewar years, it was 35,000 acres. And if we really want to do this seriously, the only thing I would agree with my colleague Markovinović is that we really have enough quality surfaces for the oil turnip, but we need to do more serious programs, we need to restructure the farm itself more seriously, and in this direction it is directed because everything else is just stories. And to talk about a thousand, two thousand tons of biodiesel in this kind of traffic, I don't think it even deserves attention, because today, if we were seriously going as we did 10 years ago, we had a finished biodiesel strategy, we could certainly have 100,000 tons of our own biodiesel, and then we could talk about the serious share of biodiesel in oil, and then we could talk about the clean air and all that biodiesel is carrying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9336	State Secretary Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9337	Final review. I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Let me try to give additional explanations and explain some of the remarks that were presented in this individual debate. First of all, I would like to make clear to the honourable Mr. Assembly MP, Vice-President Mimica, that the concept, reception and accession is therefore the amendment that you have spoken of is, of course, the Committee on Legislatives, and we believe that the Committee on Legislatives has taken a good look at all aspects of which you have spoken, especially in the context of the fact that this dilemma that is often insolent, and you have rightly warned that at this point it is not a matter. The European Union or the European Community has been encouraged by the Lisbon Treaty in history, and by its ratification there is still a time to come, and we believe that, in the spirit of future application of this Law, such a solution is still justified. As for the many remarks of Mr. Assembly MP Mršić, here I will try some of them in turn, some of them in turn to be manifested. As for the age of drivers carrying out cargo transport, and you suggest that it be 20 years for categories C and C+E, this bill has 21 years. It is true that the directive allows for lower years. However, in the preparation of this Act, we coordinated and took care of what is one of the perhaps biggest problems in road transport, not only transport, which is the safety of road traffic, which, according to European data, accounts for about 2% of the damage to the GDP to their economies. And I will remind you that there is a mortality rate of 8.2 about the average of the European Union, while last year there was something more than 14. So, of course, we need to take care of every possible detail and about road safety, so in compromise we have to go to a minimum of what the directive gives or go to perhaps a more reasonable solution appropriate to the Croatian environment, we have decided to put here for 21 years. The transporters, and some of them sitting in the assembly benches, gave us support for this approach and they told us themselves, so I know best, and I'm going to quote Mr. Stipe Gabric Jamba, who is not here, but who on the board said, "Well, I know best that I'm going to give the young driver an older truck, or a lighter truck first of all, because he's cheaper to me. I'm not going to risk giving him a big truck, a heavy truck, and then sending him to Europe at 20 years of age. Let him gain first a few years of experience on a vehicle where there is a lower risk for both safety and my business." So, in this sense, I find confirmation of this definition as it is here in this law. As for the age of the vehicle, you agreed... has been here to support the abolition and acceptance of the the thesis that administrative abolition is unacceptable, both in terms of possible discrimination on entry into activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there was a dilemma here about the age of the bus carrying children. I'll remind the old provision here was restrictive, defined that age as 10 years, but never came into force because it was twice delayed and the carriers were therefore, they didn't feel it on the ground. Now, about the age of a bus ride carrying school kids. There is a rulebook, a Regulation on the conditions to be met by vehicles which are transported by children who are governed by the Road Safety Act. There are also precise technical criteria in this Regulation. In particular, Article 4 requires a technical criterion for such a bus to own ABS. Every technically and professionally informed man will be able to tell you that the serial installation of ABS on buses is only being installed from around 96th, 97th. In other words, only in this provision have we eliminated the largest number of old buses that can be transported by children without using an administrative formula that would speak for ten years. The other provisions of that Regulation also go in that direction, in which in an appropriate, acceptable manner and in a proper manner, all those requirements must be defined by the bus carrying children. Of course, and the frequency of technical examinations is also one of the important criteria of road safety and the safety of buses carried by children, so I will remind you that according to the Regulation on Technical Conditions of the vehicle is also the basis of the Transport Safety Act defined that buses of vehicles aged up to two years need to be checked once a year, that buses aged two to seven years need to be checked twice a year and those older than seven years must be checked every three months. So, in that segment there is also concern that an older vehicle is more unreliable than a new one that simply none of us can deny here. Finally, the transport of children is defined as a special transport, which means that the contracting authority may also take care of the quality of the rolling stock which he orders and which he has decided to entrust to this sensitive activity of the transport of school children. So whether it's a city, whether it's a county where the decentralised functions are at the county level, whether it's a school having a responsibility and in this part keeping an account, means that the quality balance and the price in such a way that safety is not primarily compromised and that, of course, when that condition is satisfied, the bidders compete and the price. Therefore, there is also this indirect way of transporting the possibility of a firm keeping control of the safety of vehicles carried by children. The improved competitiveness has been talked about a lot here and I would like to point out here that in the last year, the ministry has already implemented and implemented measures with carriers to prepare the entire sector for accession to the European Union. Thus, in general, international domestic sales duties have been reduced. They're a cut-off for both the licenses and the licenses. Winter discounts for tolls have been introduced, but I agree with everyone, and I think such proposals have come from all clubs, and that is, the position of the ministry that we will try to implement in the future in an appropriate way, and that is that there is plenty of room for the competitiveness of Croatian transport before facing European competition and before they can become strong players on the European market to improve. In this respect, the intensive dialogue continues to be conducted in the area of toll reductions for the third and fourth categories of vehicle in the area of reduction of the fees paid by drivers when registering their vehicles which the problem is not so simple because it is linked on the other hand to the revenues of the ZUCs and we know when the revenues of the ZUCs would be reduced so that many of you with the right of local officials would specifically warn that this is inadmissible. However, I would also like to highlight another measure, which is to run and nominate projects in the Energy Efficiency and Environment Fund from which funds will need to be allocated in the future and in that sector where they and most of them come into this fund and the funds coming from transport to the fund are significant and the proposals that we have heard here today are some of the options that we are considering, which is to help with new vehicles being started up or in the care of old vehicles that have high concentrations of exhaust gases for new ones, which is acceptable from the ecological point of view and which the fund can justify. I thank you for the generally determined support of this law and I am convinced that Croatian transport will enter the European Union more safely after this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9338	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9339	I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations from the secretary of state. First, he said there was a correlation between whether the driver was 20 or 21 years old and how many accidents he was working. There's no such correlation. So there are no statistical indications that drivers at age 20 work more or have more accidents than they do when they're 21. And not all transporters from vans to airplanes have a fleet like jumbo. Some only deal with international transport. They've only got peddlers and they're just running east and they don't have a driver right now. So I can't find the drivers because they have to wait three years. And secondly, as far as this school bus regulation is concerned, I assure you that 90% of school buses do not satisfy the school children's transportation rules. And now I'm asking you what you've done to make these buses have ABS.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9340	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9341	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act, P.Z.E. No. 61. It was an emergency procedure. The debate is closed. The review of the amendments submitted is divided into benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Here you go, Secretary of State Breglec. Here you go. First, the amendment. Here's your hand. For speed, you wanted to say. Okay. We are moving to the first amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9342	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9343	Is she okay? Yeah. Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposed law. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9344	The amendment is not accepted. Article 5 Directive 2003/59 of the European Community of 15 July 2003 provides that drivers, vehicles intended for the transport of goods, may operate vehicles C and C+E categories provided that they possess a certificate of professional competence, of initial qualification at the age of 21. As regards the harmonisation of the conditions for the acquisition of initial qualifications, the amendments shall not be accepted and the provisions in question shall enter into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9345	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go. He's gone. We are voting for this amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Legislative Committee, Amendment 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9346	Sustained. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9347	This amendment has been accepted, becoming an integral part of the proposal. 4, IDS reps club?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9348	The amendment is not accepted. Article 20 of the Law, i.e. Article 12 of the amendment and addition of the Road Transport Act, provides for the procedure for obtaining a Community licence. The mode of transport of luggage in public road transport of passengers has been established by the Law on Mandatory Relations and the law further needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9349	IDS agent club. Here you go. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5, amendment of the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9350	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9351	It becomes an integral part of the law. Six, Agent Zeljko Vincelj?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9352	It's unacceptable. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The carrier who has been granted a licence for a period of 5 years must complete the period of validity of the licence in accordance with all the conditions prescribed by law, including proof of paid taxes and contributions. Therefore, the obligation to supply a certificate of tax paid and to contribute to the renewal of the licence is abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9353	Representative Zeljko Vincelj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9354	Well, I would like to warn the Proposer that this attitude is directly in colluding with the other items in the bill because you identify the licensee and the licensee. With this interpretation, the county will have to draw a licence for the carrier. It's completely insane. By law, the licensee is a state administration, and the licensee is a local or regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9355	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 7, the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9356	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9357	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 8, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9358	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9359	Good to see you, too. 9, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9360	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9361	It's also becoming an integral part. The Legislative Committee, too, 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9362	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9363	Thank you. 11, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9364	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9365	All of this becomes an integral part of the proposal. 12, Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9366	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9367	Good to see you, too. Legislative Committee, 13?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9368	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9369	Thank you. Legislative Committee, 14?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9370	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9371	And 15, the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9372	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9373	All these accepted amendments become an integral part of the proposal. Thank you very much. Please include and vote in favour of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act with the amendments adopted. Let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes, 97 votes in favour of, 6 abstentions, 2 against the adoption of this bill together with the amendments adopted. The Legislative Committee also proposed to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion. The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to publish a revision of the text of this law before its publication in "The People's Journal". I'm voting on the board's conclusion. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The conclusion was accepted with most votes, 105 votes for and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9374	We're going to the next point. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on mail, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 62 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications and European Integration. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary Drazen Breglec will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9375	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Very short, few allow introductory sentences regarding the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail. In its original proposal for this amendment and the addition of the law were intended, of course, to further comply with Croatian legislation in this particular case through amendments, we can also say the full harmonisation of Croatian legislation which defines the postal services to the European one. The two main changes are the two basic themes that are defined here by this proposal to amend and supplement the law. It is one extension of the powers of the national regulatory authority for the area of postal services which, therefore, the Council for Postal Services of this Proposal and the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications, which is at the final stage of production, proposes to be associated with the Agency for Telecommunications, which is administrative, professional and in any other respects, which will significantly strengthen the powers of the national and national postal market regulatory authority. And that is one of the requirements of the European Union, both through the implementation, application of our legislation and through the directives and regulations themselves. As regards the second important outcome of this Amendment and the addition of the law, allow me to point out that this Law strengthens the competences of executive bodies, to define the responsibilities of postal supervisors acting at the Agency, or postal inspectors acting at the Ministry, their responsibilities are precisely defined, separated, each in their jurisdiction of their own body from which they originate, is strong enough according to our assessment and after this Amendment and the addition of the law to fully implement the law, and to gradually bring the postal market to the purpose that exists and the objective that stands before us and that is the full liberalisation of postal services. Allow me to refer in this introductory letter to the amendment that was supposed to be a government at one point and eventually became an amendment to the Committee, which is an amendment which reduces the area of reserved services from 100 grams to 50 grams. And to conclude that this change in Croatian legislation will be fully in line with European legislation. So, one part of the postal market will be further liberalised, it will be on a completely free market and up to the next, the European legislation packages to so-called. The third postal directive, which will be implemented in the coming years, has given Croatian legislation fully harmonised and part of the Croatian economy an opportunity for further market competition. For all your remarks, we are at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9376	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Committee President, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9377	Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail with the Final Proposal as a parent working body. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who pointed out that the proposed law would regulate the extension of the powers of the national regulatory authority in the areas of postal services, in particular through the strengthening of supervisory powers and powers by regulating the market and in accordance with the postal directives. The main objective is to ensure further provision of universal postal services of a certain quality under equal conditions. The conditions for the continuation of the work of the postal service regulatory authority, within the new, joint regulatory body to be established by law governing the area of electronic communications, will also be ensured. These will be of two existing regulatory bodies of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and the Post Office Council. The Committee proposed to the Croatian Parliament that amendments and additions to the Law on Mail be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9378	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration and Legislativeness. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Damir Cain. IDS rep club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9379	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. First of all, as far as the monopoly is concerned, Croatian Post Offices reserve a monopoly over 100 grams of shipments or 10 dags. It may be up to 50 grams for European directives, but a little later on. On the free market, meaning on the first side, it is literally said: "According to the Post Law, postal services are provided which are not reserved and can be provided by legal persons who obtain a licence or submit a registration. On the free market are also those universal services which are not reserved by law for the public operator – Croatian mail.". But the point is in some way, the whole of this law on market liberalisation and the deadline for full market liberalisation when it comes to post office, not in Croatia, but in the European Union it is 2010. To be clear, I can absolutely understand when a state guards a monopoly with one of its companies but I can't understand why, say, all governments keep a monopoly in the tobacco area, they're now starting to issue stamps, maybe it's not bad, but it's just a question of when and the bills, to be a cynic. It is clear that the Croatian Post Office still cannot submit liberalisation of the postal services market, but far more profitable branches, e.g. banking industry, oil industry, media industry, notary or legal services, and even part of railways, trade and all of this is liberalised today except for three activities, mail, electricity and clearly tobacco. Post office, electricity industry is owned by the state, tobacco is private, at least when it comes to Croatia. But let's take the turn now, but before that I say I'm not in favour of privatising HEP, as I wasn't in favour of privatising banks, especially not being rehabilitated. The truth that this privatisation has brought us one monetary stability, but an external debt of 34 billion euros, and by the end of the term, that same debt will be 50 billion euros. But now let's take the turn. In the negotiating chapter, number three on postal services, Croatia will comply with European Union directives until the date of accession to the European Union. It might be in 2010 maybe in mid-2011. The Croatian clear government is still seeking a monopoly for services up to 100 grams, meaning by 2010, it means services up to 100 grams, from 2010 to 2013 for services up to 50 grams, and full liberalisation only since 2013. The vast majority of you here will agree with me that monopoly is an unnatural state. That's certainly not good for mail. That's certainly not good for tobacco. That's not good for electricity. That's not good for the press. It's not good for politics. It's only good for holders of those or those activities. God forbid, in Croatia, I don't know two more, three oil distribution companies. Maybe she'd be cheaper too. So I didn't need two thousand of them to privatize to the INA, but I had to bring in another oil man to compete with, say, the INA. Croatian mail on the other hand must be restructured. In the end, everything will be liberalized in this country except for clearly tobacco. Why won't you know it yourself, and mail must be restructured as we see it by 2010. I'm in, but why, for example, one of those two-year deadlines, one such transitional period of two years doesn't have, say, an Oilman. Why does he and the Queen now have to be privatized in 2008? For me, the oil is 10 times more important than the Croatian Post Office. In Istria, 2700 people were employed in Uljannik plus so many cooperatives. In the post office, I guess maybe five hundred. Those who had the opportunity to see one pessimistic on the other hand, I would say the ominous report by Roland Berger on the future of the Croatian Post Office knows that these consultants predicted that without successful restructuring, it is not recommended to continue to open the market, and to change the financing i.e. the grant from the budget. This is Roland Berger's report on the future of the Croatian Post Office. It's clearly logical, but why wouldn't that logic in this country be worth, say, pulsed Oil? Why it must be privatised without being restructured even though it has achieved significant profits for the first three months of this year. Let this company recover, and then let's think about privatising according to the principles of Croatian Post Offices. In the European Union, full liberalisation when it comes to mail starts at the end of 2010. So, from 1.1.2011. Where's the problem with the Croatian Post Office? First of all, in the inert leadership. They should all be sent from where they came from, home means because they've ruined or ruined that system. What does this Roland Berger study say? They are unable to introduce new products, people are not used, they are demoted, they are unable to bring back large users, but it will be less and less every day because large systems are privatized and then there is play some other logic, logic of owners, no more states, etc. In 2006, the courier market was worth 2.1 billion kuna. There were 14,000 employees, and in Croatia, the post office of these 14 000 people was 80 per cent. Postage services give 45% of the income. The couriers' 30%, the rest of the money. Croatia's package market has been liberalised. In written services, the post office has a leading place. In the courier business of Croatian mail, only 16% are held. However, there are competing among couriers as many as 12 competitors, and a large DHL through German mail, including Austrian mail through Oversis Express, etc. And we see that part of the postal service works. If it works here in the field of courier mail, then you should also mail a healthy competition between shipments up to 50g. Underneath that, but since we're going to liberalise it as it says here in 2013 or fourteenth, I don't think it would be worse now if the post office in that part learned business. So, what do we do? If it's right, we can give the post office another chance, but what's more important, let the people with the vision come. The point of mail must be management. They're supervisory committees. These are over-numbered employees who need to be offered honorable severances and thus get rid of one balance. Why the honorable severances? Because a lot of people use that system as state property. That's what unions have to talk about. There are 25% of employees on post office leave at this time. That'll say every fourth stays home. It's in the context of these latest Polemics of the Health Insurance Office how many people remain on sick leave a day. I think it's 7 to 8 percent. In Croatian post office, 25% will say that someone is using this system or rather speaking that state inertness and so on can't go on. But clearly it must not be allowed to destroy this system from the inside because it will not last indefinitely. So if we have to give the mail another chance, let's do it by 2010. That time is going to pass very, very quickly anyway. And if this restructuring fails, then privatisation should begin because in 2011, 2013 which means 3 to 5 years from now, the liberalisation of the Croatian Post Office will not survive. We ourselves, gentlemen, at the moment when we introduce that liberalisation, we're going to shut down a national giant, and we need to be ready or ready, and we need to do everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen. So that's the point to me. That market is worth billions of kuna, and I believe that the next day, domestic companies can jump into the process of taking over certain parts of the mail and that no one on the side should be preferred. However, I am deeply convinced that one of these systems can no longer exist and sooner or later you will come to mine and that something with Croatian mail should be done simply. That's it. As a transitional period, this law can be adopted, but it is nothing more than the further preservation of the monopoly of one activity that is poorly managed, which is poorly formed and which as such will not exist for much longer on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9380	Thank you. The HDZ Club Mr. Representative Milivo Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9381	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail with the Final Proposal of the Law. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Post Offices is part of the national programme of harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the regulations of the European Union. The proposed law amending and supplementing the law proposes to edit the following. First, the extension of the powers of the national regulatory authority for postal services, in particular through the strengthening of supervisory powers in relation to market regulation in accordance with the postal directives. In order to ensure the continued provision of universal postal services of a given quality under the same conditions, as provided for in the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union. These strategy for the development of the postal services market in the Republic of Croatia by 2013 and the action plan for the implementation of the strategy for the development of the postal services market in the Republic of Croatia by 2013. These conditions for the continuation of the work of the regulatory body for postal services within the new common regulatory body established by law, which regulates the area of electronic communications from 2 existing regulatory bodies, the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and the Post Office as provided for in the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the Accession of the European Union and the Post Office for the Development of the Post Office Market in the Republic of Croatia by 2013 and the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Posting Services Development Strategy by 2013. Coordination with postal directives. The applicable Law on Postages has mostly harmonised the normative solutions in the field of postal and postal transport with the requirements of the regulatory framework set up by Directive 97/67. On the single rules for the development of the internal market for Community postal services and the improvement of quality and services and Directive 2002 amending Directive 97 in order to establish a gradual liberalisation of postal services markets, with the indication of postal services and the conditions under which these services will be provided on the free market, but also the determination of spare postal services over which Croatia retains the monopoly. So far, that's 100 grams. The process of gradually opening the postal services market in the European Union has entered the final stage. By adopting a new 3rd Postal Directive, the deadline for the full liberalisation of the postal services market for the Member States of the European Union is foreseen by the end of 2010, i.e. for the end of 2012. which aims to create a single market by abolishing so far guaranteed exclusive rights, i.e. the monopoly of public operators. Ensuring all users of the European Union by satisfying the level of universal postal services and establishing harmonised principles of regulation in the conditions of the liberalised market with a view to removing obstacles to the functioning of the single market. The negotiating position for Chapter 3 – The right of establishment states that the Republic of Croatia in the area of postal services will fully comply with Directive 97 and Directive 2002 the scope of the reserved services will be reduced to 50 grams for written consignments until the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which will be regulated by the new postal law. In view of the present process of the gradual opening of the postal services market, it was necessary to analyse the effects of the consequences in order for the full liberalisation of the postal services market to have an impact on the provision of universal postal services in the Republic of Croatia. This has led to the creation of a strategy for the development of the postal services market in the Republic of Croatia by 2013. Taking into account the analysed market, risks and benefits of the further opening of the market in the Republic of Croatia, the strategy proposed a time dynamic for further liberalisation of the postal services market in the Republic of Croatia according to the scenario of moderately slow market liberalisation, which means the following. Maintaining the reserved area of universal postal services for letter shipments up to 100 grams is proposed in the period until 2010. It is necessary to encourage access by other operators to the network of public operators during that period. In the post-2010 period, it is proposed to reduce the monopoly of the written shipment to 50 grams with further development of the new business model, which means internationalisation of the public operator and the development of logistics services. In 2013, it is proposed to open a postal market and ensure full liberalisation of the postal services market. The scenario of moderately slow liberalisation of opening time for the preparation of the domestic postal market, public operator and the provision of universal postal services. In this regard, it is a recommendation for the unification of the Postal Services Council with the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. Croatia is a relatively small country that only a few years ago began forming independent regulatory bodies separately for each area of the economy. By uniting the area of mail and telecommunications into one national regulatory body modelling most European countries, it will achieve synergy, strengthen the financial capacity of the regulatory body and build significantly faster and more effectively the competences of the regulatory body, resulting in a better development of the postal and telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9382	Thank you. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9383	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. And before we begin to discuss the matter itself, I will remind you of a historical detail that we all ignore, which speaks precisely about the importance of this matter that we are talking about today. I will remind you that the decision by Ban Jelačić and the Banski Council was established on 11 August 1848 by the first national postal administration in Croatia, i.e. the Supreme Croatian-Slavon Post Office. This information tells us how much time has passed and what time we are in today, with which importance and attention we need to talk today about this matter. Postal services are an important element of the modern market economy. The importance of the economic role of mail is not only that it is an economic operator that promotes social cohesion, the construction of society and the development of agricultural regions but also that mail allows for sale, trade and communication on the internal and international market. The postal sector meets the economic needs of communications, money transport and other services and provides a feedback to the economy, government, postal service users and all citizens. Global economic trends as well as the European Union's focus are not towards the gradual opening of the postal market. Along with the changes that bring new technologies, he has put in front of national postal operators an unsustainable and business transformation obligation. From a privileged company, national postal operators must change into an efficient economic factor that will be able to face competition in the market environment. In the context of the enlargement of the European Union, the European Commission and the national governments have observed that national postal operators in Central and Eastern Europe need to modernise not only because of growing trade but also because of other business links between the countries of Western Europe and the Central and Eastern European countries. Without the quality of physical integration of Europe as a whole, there are fewer prospects for its economic development and integration. In the process of adapting Croatian legislation to the acquis of the European Union, it is unquestionable that there will also be changes in the field of regulation of postal services. In order to ensure the quality of services and fair competition and to create assumptions for the further development of the postal market and electronic communications markets, the strategy for the development of the postal services market in the Republic of Croatia by 2013 recommended the unification of the Post Office Council with the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. This will significantly strengthen the regulatory authority's financial capacity, which will have a positive impact on the further development of the market. This proposal for an amending and supplementing law will extend the powers of the national postal regulatory authority in the area of postal services, in particular by strengthening supervisory and regulatory powers in accordance with postal directives, in order to ensure that universal postal services are provided in a consistent manner. The conditions for the continuation of the work of the postal service regulatory authority within the new common regulatory body and for the field of electronic communications will also be regulated in accordance with the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union and with the strategy for the development of the postal market. This will also benefit from further development of the quality of postal services. In fact, the postal services market in Croatia is dynamic and records a steady rise in competition. This is also positive in the long term for service users and service providers, as the growth of competition brings a rise in quality, a decrease in prices and an increase in the efficiency of the business of postal service providers. However, it should be noted that by adopting the third postal directive, the process of the gradual opening of the European Union postal services market has entered the final stage and the deadline for the full liberalisation of the postal services market is foreseen for the end of 2010. The aim is to create a single market by eliminating so far guaranteed exclusive rights, i.e. the monopoly of public operators, and to ensure a satisfactory level of universal services for all users. As this will apply to Croatia, it is important for the owner, i.e. the state, to decide what he wants to do with the public operator or Croatian Post Office. The adoption of the Law on Postage by a national postal operator as an activity of state interest has a defined legal monopoly and defined postal services which only Croatian mail can perform in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The postal law is the basic law of domestic postal law as a lex specialis that regulates mail and legal relations between mail, as a postal service provider and a postal service user. The law lays down two important areas of importance for the functioning of postal transport and for the provision of postal services. The first area covers the legal obligations of mail necessary for the orderly functioning of postal transport and these provisions for forced nature. In order not to comply with those provisions, the law has laid down certain sanctions for mail in criminal provisions. The Croatian Post Office is a company with a leading or significant market share in the postal, courier and logistics area of services, and the results of the 2006 business confirm that the total income was over a billion and 573 million, and expenditures over a billion and 572 million, respectively, and that the average net wage of employees was 4 thousand 525 kuna, which is very significant, as the post office employs here are 12 thousand 267 employees. The postal offices are present in every part of Croatia and Croatian mail is accessible to the criteria and standards of the European Union, i.e. one post office covers an average of 4 000 inhabitants and 50 square kilometers respectively. The provision of universal postal service under the same conditions and affordable prices to all postal service users throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia constitutes the basic policy definitions in this sector. It should therefore be noted that Croatia is the only registered universal postal service provider in Croatia and a public operator in the provision of universal postal services. This means that Croatia is obliged to organise the provision of services throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia regardless of financial cost-effectiveness. These facts put Croatia's mail in a specific position on the market compared to other postal service providers which operate mainly in highly profitable areas. Currently, individual service providers unlawfully apply universal and reserved postal shipments to couriers and carry out part of the jobs for which they have not been authorised by the Post Office Council and do not comply with the provisions laid down by the Mail Act. The illegal, therefore illegal provision of universal services only in highly profitable areas, these service providers lead Croatia's mail into a situation that cannot make enough income to settle losses in areas that are rarely populated and where it is obliged to provide a service. We therefore believe that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Post in the part of strengthening the supervisory and regulatory powers of the Supervisory Regulatory Authority for the area of postal services will have a positive impact on the change of such practice. The integration of postal services and electronic communications within the single regulatory body will also have a positive impact on the protection of data transmission by means of telecommunications, as well as on the protection against changes in original data prior to processing. In fact, the vast majority of information to be sent and delivered through classical postal services is created in information systems. It is unquestionable that classical services should be adapted to technological innovations, i.e. Take technical opportunities where it's most useful. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law will further comply with the postal directives and regulations of the European Union, and we believe that this proposal is a step closer to improving the existing situation. And so the HSS Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9384	Thank you. National Minority Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9385	Dear Vice President, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Club will support the amendments and additions of the Law on Mail, although we are aware that we have a difficult way of adapting, since national monopoly on postal services in the European Union must be abolished by 2011, allowing all postal companies to act freely in any member of the European Union. Surely, this is a step towards a market competition in a sector in which monopolies have so far largely been held in all countries by all national operators. How this liberalisation of postal services will work on Croatian mail, how they will adapt to the market and certainly can't matter to competition because it is a giant with a large number of employees who are closer to 14 thousand and are constantly growing and with its restructuring it is inevitable to start already today. Namely, Croatia is the number of residents in one post office located within 24 European countries in 14th place with 3,000 700 residents per post office, which means we are always in the golden middle. One Belgium certainly has a more developed system with 7 thousand 800 or almost 8 thousand inhabitants associated with an office and, if we take one France and the Czech Republic, which we cannot again, as I said, be dissatisfied. In Croatia, an office serves 47 square kilometers. In one Finland and Sweden, it is more than 200 kilometers [200 km], but in many European countries, such as Italy, Britain serves only half a half, barely 20 square miles [20 sq km]. If we follow the number of letter senders per capita in European countries, Croatia is in 18th place with 83 shipments per capita. From us are the Poles, the Slovaks, the Greeks, and here is normally again run by Scandinavia with 500 written e-mails, then Britain, France with almost 300. And therefore, it is not surprising that the volume of postal services in Croatia is growing at one high rate, between 5% and 7%, because e-mail still has a smaller share. With the importance of restructuring which, as I pointed out and seen from this data, we are practically on European average, but that mail will have to be restructured. It is certainly important to build a strong and complete regulator that will protect both the free market and ensure access to the postal network of the public operator. And I think that these changes are on the way because it is proposed to merge the Council of Mail with the Agency for Telecommunications, which really wants to strengthen the effectiveness of the inspection, carry out expert supervision, quality of the functioning of the people, but also timely informing all operators, all postal service users of the steps of better market liberalisation. The postal law already in 2005 is in line with European directives, defining postal services and conditions under which they will be implemented on the free market. Monopoly, as my predecessors here have said, has been detained in the field of services written consignments of up to 100 grams, but it has already pointed to inconsistencies with the European Postal Directives, which are prescribed in Europe that since 2006, the scope of the reserved services should be at 50 grams of letter mail. We are predicting a somewhat later deadline because I say, I said it was a giant that should certainly be restructured on one side, but it is in the area that shipments must arrive at every corner, regardless of what the price is and where indeed one national post office has an important service. Professional supervision was conducted under the Law 2000 by the Postal Services Council, which unfortunately did not have sufficient competence. As far as I can remember, it was not possible to issue appropriate solutions and on the free market means only those services that were not reserved for the national operator, meaning our Croatian Post Office. Let us remember the problems and the long debates here when talking about courier services where their problem is trying to work part-time through a special law. Finally, a compromise was reached that this was settled by the Law on Mail and Courier Services was not defined as postal services, but a distinction was made according to the method of reception, transfer and delivery. However, with the aim of exactly how the training of the national regulator, particularly these changes, is highlighted in strengthening administrative capacity, but as I also said in the gradual adjustment of the market for our mail, the National Minorities Club will support these changes, with the emphasis that it is still necessary to make sure that the shipments are actually in every corner of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9386	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9387	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The main purpose, the objective of this amendment, and in the process of harmonisation with EU legislation, is also to tear apart the current independent regulatory body for postal and courier services, so the Posting Services Council and its merger with the Croatian Telecommunications Agency into a single independent regulatory body of the Croatian Posting Agency. There was a wide debate about the post office here. I don't mind, but I'm just gonna hang on to this. So, parallel to this amendment, it is necessary to amend the Telecommunications Act, which regulates the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, and we will obviously have to do so soon. Here, last week we had a debate on the 2007 Work Report and the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, but also the Post Office Council. From what I followed in these discussions, and as I recall, everyone actually supported those reports and there was a lot of praise for working because introducing order for the first time in the postal courier and telecommunications market really wasn't an easy task. And in doing so, the quality is higher and the price is lower, and I think it deserves a certain commendation. I believe that by amending this law and the Telecommunications Act and introducing a new joint regulatory body of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency with an even clearer and stronger role, it will indeed introduce even more order on the market that will then produce both greater quality and even lower prices. I think that's why this is worth supporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9388	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9389	So here's a few more words. In fact, we see that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail with the final proposal for the law brings some news. This is primarily the unification of two regulatory bodies, the Post Office Council and the Croatian Telecommunications Agency in one national regulatory body. And clearly, we all expect this strengthening of powers, some are already here and indicated. A little bit more about liberalising the market because the post office was actually the only universal provider of market services. We now see that services are reduced, reduced from 100 grams to 50 grams and we hear that the Croatian economy will get an additional opportunity. Little maybe we should talk about the post office, so about the Croatian Post Office, maybe comparisons between public operators and others. In fact, that is the job of nearly 14,000 people. Of these Croatian mail employees have 12 thousand, according to the report, 267 persons or better said 87%, so the remaining 13%. Of that, 94% of all Croatian postal services are provided. We're talking about whether the others are stronger or not. They strengthen because the others here have an increase index 127, Croatian Post Office 107. So the previous liberalisation certainly has contributed quite a bit to increasing the services of others. The others, therefore, do not postmen but the rest of them have a 47% increase in package services as we can see by the many vehicles that deliver packages. A little bit of income, maybe. My colleague Cain talked a lot about the post office as a state firm, so maybe a little bit should be said. Croatian mail has relatively small revenues, which is normal given the coverage of around 130 thousand kuna annually, the rest have 340 thousand but also postal expenditures in 128 thousand and the other 317 thousand. Now, it's okay to give others an extra chance but we just can't write off all state-owned companies just because they're state-owned firms. It should be said that the post office covers islands, underdeveloped areas, so all that is not interesting to others. The rest, however, concentrated most on densely populated urban areas where delivery is relatively close to them, with no cost of maintaining post office offices, but possibly some warehouse, which is a significantly lower cost. In fact, perhaps you should also say that from this mail now as we expect it to be. We expect a larger number of post offices, we expect working hours that are important differently. Namely, here we have the post office working until 3:00. If you get the shipment you have to go to, there's no way you're going to pick it up, from 8 to 15 hours in the post office come to you pensioners, come all the others but who don't work, but those who work will very hard to pick up their shipment. An old idea perhaps you should, I said it larger earlier that you should still consider the offices of the Croatian Post Offices and connect to the Croatian Post Office maximum because I think there is, that there is a future there. In some cases, it was done but in some cases it wasn't. Here, as far as I know in the Hoto neighborhood, a post office was built and the post office works but the post office is beautiful, decorated, invested inside staring blank. So there's not much going on in spite of the population increase of several thousand. By the way, with the work of the post office, I think I'm very familiar with the state of the post office and I think in general 12 thousand 267 employees in the Croatian Post Office expect us to come a little more seriously to all the problems surrounding them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9390	Thank you. Does the rapporteur's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Drazen Breglec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, Sea and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9391	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, after this interesting and useful and above all useful debates you've shown, let me give some further clarifications in this final address and some additional facts. When I spoke in the opening statement that through this law, through the next degree of liberalisation, a chance will be given to the economy because a certain part of the market will be free, it will no longer be reserved I did not then specify it and supported the figures, so I will now present it. The total reserved area of up to 100 grams so far that we are talking about and which has so far been in force and which will be in force because I would like to remind myself of this amendment and the addition of the law by 2010 is 711 million kuna. Of these 711 million kunas, which are revenues from the reserved area, from letters and shipments to 100 grams, about 100 million kunas, are not run separate accounting according to that criterion, so they can only speak aproximably about 100 million kunas are shipments from 50 to 100 grams. So the part that is now being liberalized that will take effect from 2010 behind which the economy, as I said, will get the chance, is the amount and weight of 100 million kuna. This is certainly a good, solid opportunity and evidence that Croatia must take care not only because of compliance with EU regulations, but because of the quality of the service, the service that citizens will receive in this way, perhaps a stronger market competition, to take care of catching steps with liberalisation. Let me explain the differences and reasons for the delay in the liberalisation of postal services that the European Union has defined itself by adopting the third postal directive in March this year. In this directive, most non-preservation countries accepted the deadline, the end of 2010 for full liberalisation means for the abolition of those 50 grams that are now valid in Europe. However, already in the adoption of the 11 member states' directive, nine new and two old Greece and Luxembourg, have expressed the reserve and requested, or have declared that they will reserve their territory by 2013. We refer to these changes through the strategy of developing postal services that we have brought this year, the government has also adopted an action plan that also follows this strategy, this dynamic is defined through the definition of moderately slow liberalisation for the Croatian postal market and there is really no reason for Croatia to be faster in this sense, because finally, many of you have mentioned it in their discussions, in this activity there is almost 12.5 thousand employees, we can tell the family. It is the property of the state, the owner must be responsible for his own property, 1200 around real estate in the centers of all our cities, municipalities of the place, in islands, in areas where we want to see stronger economic activities, return etc. So, the issue of liberalisation, further liberalisation, is best answered by the definition of a strategy of moderately slow liberalisation, which still corresponds to and captures a step with the European Union's demands. I certainly agree with all those who have raised the thesis that it is of particular importance to add the process of mail restructuring, that is absolutely the first priority, and this time that has been given to these amendments of the law and we can say by skillful disbursement, on the issue of all the post office in Europe with a happy departure in the adoption of the third postal directive, because the original liberalisation was to take place earlier, it was time for this sector to prepare for market competition. But what about the so-called so-called. Universal service, i.e. a service which, because each citizen must receive at the same price, according to the same conditions throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, how we will finance it even after the period when the deadline for full liberalisation comes, is so far not yet in a clear, completely clear way defined either through the directives or through practice. There are two directions mainly, or at the moment when there is complete liberalisation arising from the obligation to cover the whole area and where it is not profitable, therefore, there is a difference, on the other hand you will have competition, by the first version, that difference would be settled either from the state budget of the countries or from a special fund that would be paid, in which everyone on the market would be used by him or those operators who provide a universal service. In any case, one of the great responsibilities that we are expressing and which you have shown to your discussions on this property, this important business economic segment is given these amendments of the law additionally to the ability to end successfully in a liberalized environment and with and without negative consequences... Thank you for your support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the amendments, thank you very much for the suggestion I am showing myself in a way that I accept them, given that these are amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9392	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And we will vote when the conditions for voting on that agenda point are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9393	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail. It was an emergency procedure for P.Z.E. Number 62. The debate is closed. The proposer has adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and they become an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 109 votes in favour and 3 abstentions of the bill are combined with the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9394	Let's move on. And now I suggest, or we combine the debate on the 3rd, 4th and 5th points of the agenda. And this means: - Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2006; - Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2008; - Proposal for a Programme of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2008. — 2012; Report by the Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Articles 31, 33 and 27. The law on official statistics. You took the materials into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Finance, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Drazen Vikić-Topić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Sports Science. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9395	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll be very brief, a few more words will be added by Mr. Jukic, who is the VD director. So the State Statistics Institute continued to coordinate the methodology of statistics with the European Union's demands last year, and in this respect it also launched different activities both domestically and internationally. In this regard, he took note of these requirements imposed by the European Union, meaning the Statistical Office of the European Union EUROSTAT also introduced our official bodies to statistics in the Republic of Croatia but also to the public, with a number of actions that it has launched. Thanks to the technical assistance of international organisations, the statistical institution has actively participated in international expert meetings, working groups and seminars, in coordination, I say our statistical methodologies, because the European Union methodology is, of course, very complex, we are still on track to comply with it. I would especially stress that this harmonisation continues to mean Croatian statistics, and I would say that great improvements have been achieved in terms of the reliability of the data that we have received from the European Union and their availability through the web sites that are being edited. Now, I'd just like to... [[The speaker doesn't understand, he's away from the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9396	Thank you. Dear Darko Jukić, V.D. Director of the State Statistics Office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9397	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll briefly describe these three of our documents, I'd say regular. So the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia in 2006 contains a review of the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan for that year. The State Statistics Office is the central point of the statistical system of the Republic of Croatia but since there are other holders of official statistics the report is made in cooperation with all holders of official statistics. All research has been carried out except for some of the exceptions mentioned in the report and work on projects and expert methodological works has been described. As the Statistics Act provides, the opinion of the Statistical Council adopted the report was also provided. The statistical activities programme from 2008 to 2012 and the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic for 2008 were also developed in cooperation with the holders of official statistics as well as other relevant institutions involved through statistical advisory committees. The opinion of the Statistical Council adopted the Proposal for a programme of statistical activities and the Annual Implementation Plan was also provided. I can say that the programme of statistical activities i.e. our multi-annual programme is accompanied by the timing of the statistical programme of the European Union, and is actually implemented through the annual implementation plans. Most of the activities of the statistical system are aimed at harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, which is extremely extensive in the field of statistics. In this process, as much effort as it must have been made, it has proved to increase awareness of the importance of statistics and the need to ensure the necessary resources. Finally, I would just point out that the most extensive statistical activity is planned in 2011 during the period covered by the statistical activity programme. Census list. Methodological preparation, in accordance with Eurostat and UN recommendations, has started, and a special law will be needed to implement the census, in addition to ensuring the necessary resources and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9398	Thank you. Would the Committee's representatives like to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Goran Marić, Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and... The Finance Committee, I apologize. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9399	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, V.D. He discussed at the 8th session of the National Bureau of Statistics, esteemed colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament on 15 May 2008 the Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2006, the Proposal for an annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2008 and the Proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2008-2012, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government by means of an act of 8 May 2008. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that the Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2006 was adopted. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2008 as well as the adoption of the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia by 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9400	Thank you. The other committees? No, I don't. And before we go to the club debate, I have two notices. First, the 7th session of the Committee on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament will be held today on 20 May 2008 at 13:30 in the Chamber of Ivan Mažuranić 84. And second, a session of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership is cancelled for today, Tuesday 20 May 2008 starting at 14:00. We're going to a club debate. Before we move to the club debate, since we have combined 3 points together, the representatives of the clubs have the right to speak for 20 minutes. It's common. And the first is the Croatian Democratic Community Club. He is a respected representative of Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9401	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. V.D. Director of the Department of Statistics, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament in the package was presented: Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2006, Proposal for an annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2008 and the Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2008 to 2012. Given that there are different views on the importance of statistics but also since there are sometimes different interpretations of statistical indicators on this occasion, I would stress the importance of statistics that is most clearly seen if we remember where its place is in the functions of governance. One of the main functions of governance of any institution, business organisation or state is the planning function covering any direction of future actions while the latter is in a series of management functions to monitor and correct action with the aim of achieving the objectives and associated plans. Budgetary and extra-accountary control techniques are equally important. Statistical indicators or statistics are the most important and effective extra- budget control techniques. This points to the obligation and importance of systematic and analytical observation of all statistical indicators as the starting points in the assessment of the existing situation but also as the starting points for new decisions. When it comes to the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2006, it should be pointed out that the State Statistics Office, with the requirements of the Statistical Office of the European Union "Eurostat", met both the holders of official statistics and the general public and organised, coordinated and assisted in drawing up the first programming documents by respecting the legal provisions laid down by the Official Statistics Act. It is commendable that, thanks to the technical assistance of international organisations, statistics from the National Statistics Institute have actively participated in international expert meetings, working groups and seminars. It is also commendable that, in order to produce statistics in accordance with European standards, the State Statistics Institute launched various activities both domestically and abroad, and that the harmonisation of Croatian statistics was continued in 2006 in line with European Union standards, as this has led to the necessary improvements in data reliability and their availability via websites. It is also commendable that the State Statistics Institute conducts continuous training of employees, participation in professional seminars, symposia and counselling, attending undergraduate and postgraduate studies, as well as attending foreign language courses in foreign language schools. During 2006, activities were carried out that provided statistical products that meet the most frequently highlighted needs of domestic and foreign users such as annual and quarterly GDP with all its components. During 2006, work began to build information systems, structural, business statistics, and all regular research into the business statistics programme was carried out. It concerns the fact that the work on some development projects has been slowed down or the stages have been extended for 2007 due to lack of resources, and this is particularly relevant to the further development of structural business statistics, and to the harmonisation of other statistics, to the statistical regulations of the European Union. The 2006 Annual Implementation Plan envisioned the implementation of 278 statistical research and 59 projects in 16 authorised bodies. All planned research has been conducted entirely except research by the Croatian Institute of Public Health. According to the 2006 Annual Implementation Plan, a total of 19 studies were planned to be carried out as a full-time survey in the area of distribution trade, which was not planned by the Annual Implementation Plan 2006. For the purpose of more effective implementation for the purposes of defining the Annual Implementation Plan, statistical and advisory committees for 15 different statistical areas have been established. According to the Law on Official Statistics in 2003, the annual implementation plan shall be adopted for each year to which the programme of statistical activities relates, and in particular for the purpose of enabling the official statistics of the Republic of Croatia to respond and establish a degree of compliance with the requirements of the European Union. The annual implementation plan of the Republic of Croatia in 2008 provides for the implementation of 276 regular statistical surveys on data collection and 79 other statistical activities related to expert methodological works and development projects aimed at harmonising Croatian statistics with European Union statistics. Their implementation is not possible without providing the necessary material and human resources in all holders of official statistics and owners of administrative data sources. Total resources from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia are required by the State Statistics Institute for the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2008 amount to 98 million 332 thousand 546 kuna of which 16 million 832 thousand 546 kuna is planned for technical assistance to the State Statistics Office for the use of pre-accession funds of the European Union. Initial basis for drawing up a proposal for a statistical programme of the Republic of Croatia 2008/2012. the year is the Strategy for the Development of Official Statistics of the Republic of Croatia from 2004 to 2012. The annual implementation plan for each year to which the programme relates shall be adopted prior to the implementation of the programme and, when drawing up the Statistical Activities Programme of the Republic of Croatia in 2008 to 2012, consideration was taken of the needs of the users and the requirements of the European Union. Finally, the HDZ Club will vote for the adoption of the Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2006 as well as for the adoption of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2008 and the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia by 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9402	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9403	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, V.D. Director, colleagues and colleagues. They say Churchill said that there are lies, damn lies and statistics alluding probably not to statistics as such, but to interpretations of different statistics that we have witnessed in this hall rarely when trying to hide something or show ourselves as we would like. But it's not the statistics that are responsible, it's the statistics that interpret how they fit. And that is why it is crucial for the methodology of statistical research, indicators used to be as objective as possible, to be as comparable as possible to indicators used in statistical research in other countries in order to minimise the potential for such false interpretations of data. I remind you of how many discussions were being held in this Parliament and Croatia even a few years ago on the duty of, say, Croatia, and one of them concluded on the same data that we were about to fall apart and that we had argentin syndrome ahead of us. Others spoke exactly the other way around. As positions changed, interpretations changed. So that'll always be it. Regarding this report and the programme that we have received here on behalf of the SDP Club, I can say that we will support both the report and the programme. The report from one serious house is written in a serious way and I think it gives a good overview of what has been done so far in this important institution of Croatia that we have. The number of statistical surveys for 2006, by the way, to ask when it will be for 2007, why, in making it here, is already almost half of 2008. Of the 278 regular surveys of 56 others, with the fact that, in this data dissemination, it was going towards county and regional criteria, that the regional regional GDP is now being calculated, that a big job in coordination with EUROSTAT was indeed said to have not sat down in that year of the report. But I find it far more interesting to see what is really ahead of us and what will happen in this important area in the years ahead. The programme is based on all European standards with a very precise proposal and activities, both holders and forms and types of statistical research, however, remains one impression that should probably be discussed more in the context of individual professions or specific advice whether we have the basis for data and research that will be carried out in the next 4 years enough quality data so that we can bring sufficient quality assessments and deliver quality programmes in several crucial areas that we do not seem to have, however, based on this project. What am I alluding to when I'm talking about this? The entire European Union has been dealing with itself for about a decade as a central issue with two topics. The whole Lisbon strategy is actually resting on these two key topics. One is the competitiveness of the European economy, and the other is the area relating to social cohesion. And that is the key challenge facing all European countries and Europe as a whole. How and in what way, in relation to other potential competitive economies and economies, worldwide, to increase this competitive capacity of Europe, and on the other hand to preserve a high level of social inclusion, the quality of the social state and which is in itself, so to speak in the habitat and constituents of European and political and social economic traditions. I would ask the same question when it comes to Croatia and I think this is a good opportunity to talk about it. In fact, there are 5 or 6 in the world of recognised methodologies that measure the competitiveness of the economy. Let these researches come to us indirectly, and then Croatia settles on 56th, 64nd, 42nd, depends on what research is about, but these research is done. And these research comes from several synthetic indices. These are composite indices that are made up of a few dozen indicators that are then shared when it's weighted, you get some index that says where you are, for example, when it comes to global competitiveness as a society. Growth competitiveness index, business competitiveness index. These are the two key indices used in most of these researches and I would like the Croatian National Statistics Institute to apply that type of research and known indices which are therefore, so that we get a relevant opportunity to compare with others from our closer or further environment. When it comes to social cohesion. First of all, it is surprising that there is so little to talk about in Croatia about such an important topic which, it says absolutely dominates all the debates of all important European institutions, and within a year when we sit in one of these European institutions, as a member, we will have to face discussions about this key and important topic. What's social cohesion? The Council of Europe, whose member we are, has been since '96. In the year, it defined social cohesion as the ability of a society to ensure the well-being of each member, to minimise inequality, avoid polarisation and say that the cohesion society is a solidarity community made up of free individuals who create their common goals by democratic methods. That's the definition of social cohesion. Can we measure social cohesion in Croatia and is that even measurable? Yes, it is. The Council of Europe has presented indicators that can measure the level of social cohesion of a community. It is not binding, but there is no reason why Croatia should not take it into its system of measuring important quality indicators, if you want life and social progress of this society. Because I'm not sure that maybe we should strive to do that and that at any cost we have to reach, say, a level of GDP of a Luxemburg. But there is no reason not to try to develop Croatian society in such a way that every person can feel good in it. When it comes to social cohesion, it is not a goal that can be reached. It's the ideal to which it tends, every society sets its own criteria. They say that the elements of this well-being are citizens, and we already have it in part in our statistical indicators, justice, non-discrimination. That's to measure statistically. There are meanings for that instrument. It's a height. It still looks like some kind of category that's not statistically measurable, but that means respecting the difference. It's autonomy that speaks of the individual's personal development and it's a participation that speaks, so on engagement. These are 4 key elements of the well-being on which the philosophy of social cohesion rests. What are these spheres of life? These are the employment we measure. It just needs to be modified a little bit. That's the income we're measuring. Apartment, there should be added several elements because Croatia is one of the few countries that does not actually have a real housing policy. It's health. We have a whole series of good indicators that are useful for creating such a synthetic index. These are food and consumption, education, information and culture. So this is the 8 spheres of life that say whether this project of social cohesion is realized or not. In the case of indicators, the Council of Europe provides in its sketch 4 synthetic indicators consisting of 3 elements. They're the first economic indicators, some of which we have. We have poverty, inequality and long unemployment. So, we have certain data on poverty, on social exclusion, that's a phenomenon that's being monitored I've been thinking for the last 5, 6, 7 years, but that's not enough level of research done in Croatia. The social synthetic indicator includes the number of murders, over-indebted households, we don't have that kind of data, and the quality of housing. We are the quality of housing, mostly as far as I know, based on large research, these are the censuses every 10 years. It is possible to follow, therefore, and exists as a possibility in a quality way. Access to public services, the third synthetic indicator, includes medical protection, social protection coverage. You know, here, a whole series of debates were going on about it when the number of holders increased, say, social aid, does that mean we're poorer? Or does that mean we've covered better? Today in Croatia, for example, we have 65,000 people who do not receive a pension, about 140 thousand people who do not have health care, but also have to be statistically monitored, not only those who are in the system, but also those who are not covered by that protection. For example, one of these elements is the approach of poor children to higher education. The fourth indicator again speaks of something that we don't actually measure statistically, but there are data. It's a human rights approach. It can be evaluated, as usual, by participating in the elections. For example, one of the indicators of human rights access: racial and sexual discrimination. We have a whole series of data from relevant defence institutions, number of disputes, cases, etc. which should be covered by these statistical surveys, access to courts and justice. So I've cited this as just an example that even what doesn't seem quite quantifiable, counting, can also be shown as a quality statistical indicator that can have a huge value, actually in planning the future, in solving the problems that society is seeing at the level. And there's a third area that's somewhat covered or overlapped with the social cohesion area, which is the quality of life area that also has nine indicators. This is an economic situation, so material deprivation, housing, employment, education and skills, family life, the harmony of family life and work, health, subjective well-being, so how many people experience life satisfaction and happiness. Well, that's counting, too. And perception of the quality of society, what is called social trust, social capital, etc. And here, I have tried to suggest to you that as much as possible, even what at this point does not seem binding by EUROSTAT and the European Union, and which in the long run can certainly have a quality basis for predicting, but also for the intervention that we as a society must do to try to install into this programme because as far as I know we have quality experts, I have talked to people, let's say from law school, a study on social work that has been following very many years of social cohesion areas. I know Professor Lovrincevic has just submitted a request for indicators of competitiveness. Let's take that step. I think the money that we're going to invest in is going to be doubled because we're going to have a lot more quality data than we have at this point. Here, once again with the acceptance of this program I ask to pay attention. I warned these three aspects. There may be a lot more to be included in some areas, since statistics and statistical activity will no doubt develop more and more in the years to come, in order to reduce the general uncertainty and general unpredictability of the world in which we live. We can only do that if we have quality information about where we are now and where we used to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9404	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9405	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government and the State Department. All three documents that talk about any 2006 report, a plan detailed for 2008 and the 2008-2012 plan, actually talk about harmonising Croatian statistics with European standards, or EUROSTAT standards. Obviously, it is necessary, logical and positive that our statistics or how we collect and the topics on which we collect statistics, at least comply with EUROSTAT standards, therefore it is absolutely necessary and commendable. However, following a trace of the fact that, for 2006, the State Statistics Institute achieved or used 79% of the projected funds, hence the budget for 2006. We are coming up with information that all planned targets for that year have been achieved, except for the introduction of a nomenclature of spatial units for statistics. Namely, 2006. EUROSTAT, as reported in that report, has not yet accepted that nomenclature of spatial units for statistics. I conclude that it's NUC two, so it's statistical regions and that's the main problem in these documents, and otherwise the main problem we have right now with this statistical classification. The Annual Implementation Plan therefore shows a review of the data to be collected, statisticalally shown and published for 2008. And also from the 2008-2012 statistical activity programme, what is planned by 2012. However, it is not visible anywhere that it is planned with statistical regions. As is known, the census is in 2011, but this is also about Croatia, and I will explain it, something too late. We are left with the problem of statistical regions. As you know, the statistical regions on the basis of GDP per capita are qualified and are therefore primarily significant, qualify, or qualify for certain parts of Croatia to withdraw funds from European funds. In this House, we adopted the division of Croatia into five statistical regions in June 2003. After that, with an explanation that this was not accepted by the European Commission, the State Statistics Institute decided to divide Croatia into three regions. That decision has never been in this House, nor has the 2003 decision ever been annulled in this House. At the time of questioning how this could have happened, the resolute minister, and the resolute minister is Minister Primorac, then explained that it is in accordance with the law. Namely, the Croatian Parliament should not decide on the division of Croatia into statistical regions. However, he did not explain or explain what he did with the decision made by the Croatian Parliament in 2003 and whether the Croatian Parliament is now derrogating itself, or derrogating its own decision, ignoring the decision of the 2003 Parliament, and simply accepting the new status of the division of Croatia to a region which, without de facto at least the decision of the Parliament, is now repealing its decision of 2003, which was taken by the State Statistics Office. What's the problem here? Three regions to which Croatia is divided, and where GDP is foreseen per capita, a period in which certain regions will qualify for the withdrawal of funds from European funds by which year. In this regard, GDP-based per capita of a region has a longer period of time for the possibility of withdrawing funds under more favourable circumstances, more favourable circumstances mean more money. The money is withdrawn on the basis of the population and per capita you have a certain amount for which you can qualify maximum in one region, and this sum is determined by the rate of development measured by GDP per capita. Croatia is therefore divided into three regions. One is the coast. The coast is qualified to withdraw the maximum amount of funding from European funds by 2034. The second region is eastern Croatia, i.e. Slavonia, Baranja and Eastern Croatia, which is qualified under this classification to withdraw funds from European funds by 2073. And the third region is the northwest which includes the City of Zagreb. The northwest is qualified for withdrawal under the most favourable circumstances, so the maximum amount of funds until 2013 which means not practically at all. So we have a maximum if everything goes at a huge rate, three years for the northwest where we can withdraw the maximum amount of funds that each region can qualify for. What's the problem? If you look at the northwest and the GDP of the northwest without the City of Zagreb, then it has about the same situation as the coast. It would therefore qualify until 2034-2035 to withdraw the maximum amounts for its projects. However, as is known, the City of Zagreb has the GDP per capita largest in Croatia, twice as large as the average, i.e. what has the northwest and the inclusion of the City of Zagreb in that third region of the northwest, the entire region is disqualified, so Zagorje, Varazdinska, Međimurska is disqualified for the withdrawal of the maximum funds from European funds. That's the money that if we divide statistical regions more wisely, we have, so if of course we're able to write projects, but that's the money that belongs to us, for which we qualify. So we ourselves are making it impossible for this division to use funds at a maximum amount beyond 2013 for a third of the country for which there is absolutely no reason. Namely, the argument that came from the commission when discussing the second division and the possibility of the City of Zagreb being a special region, was the City of Zagreb has no 800,000 inhabitants, and 800,000 inhabitants are the lower limit for qualifications for the region. However, the City of Zagreb did not have 800,000 inhabitants based on the 2001 census. Of the almighty data you can find, the city of Zagreb currently has more than 900 thousand inhabitants and it must have grown to enough in this period because it had a little less, so 700 thousand and some inhabitants when it was the last census. Therefore, given the resources available to us in this case if the city of Zagreb is declared or classified as a specific region, it pays any special measure including a census because it has been claimed that, although in different discussions, this data should also be well verified because it is directly our national interest that data such as data on people who have residence in the city of Zagreb, therefore police and various other databases are not sufficient to prove that Zagreb has over 800 thousand inhabitants, although all of these databases show that Zagreb has over 800 thousand inhabitants. Now, in this particular document, we're talking about the population list. He was, of course, planned on a regular basis for 2011. However, Commissioner Hübner, who is the European Commissioner for this particular area, said directly that if we want to change the structure of the statistical regions, this should be done by 2010. Therefore, we should have statistical arguments on the number of residents of the region substantiated data by 2010 so that in this first classification or first round we can qualify and qualify one of the three parts of the country for the possibility of simply using the resources available to us. There's not a word about it in these documents. An example and the ability to use European funds, i.e. the use of resources available to one country. First, by now we've shown ourselves to be extremely weak, we've lost the money we lost to IPA 5 million euros definitely, 130 frozen by these other funds at this time. Each country can take advantage of the European Union by having serious benefits, or not. This is one of those examples. It is up to us here whether we want to make enough effort and enough analysis if you want us to position ourselves by maximising our maximum benefit in our own country from what is, by definition, available to us from European funds. This, of course, cannot be solved with these three documents, can only be solved by political decision and political will. Therefore, as far as these three documents are concerned, the HNS will support their adoption but first seek an explanation of why such a harmful regional division and why not a word about how it will change. Of course, there are and there are examples, there is a possibility that this regional division can be changed later on, but it is necessary to include it in our negotiating position on this subject – Regional policy and structural instruments of adaptation and statistics. It is necessary to enter into those negotiating positions a sign that we will go to change the regional division of Croatia. Such a clause was introduced by our Slovenian neighbours precisely so that we could make sure that the number of residents or censuses shows a change, so that they can change the regional structure and thus enable themselves to use the funds that the European Union makes available. Therefore, the HNS will support the adoption of these three documents, but we will, of course, go on to explain why it is going into such a harmful division and why none of these documents at least indicate that it will be resolved and we will go with the initiative to at least enter the negotiating position on a chapter that is right in front of us, so – Regional policy and structural elements of adaptation indicate the intention, so the intention to change statistical regions. If not before then after the census, but it would be absolutely the task of these bodies to establish with Commissioner or Commissioner Hübner what consequences for the exploitation of these funds by Croatia are for us and if we do not do so by 2010, when we are not at all considering or I suppose we ourselves are out of ignorance because nothing else can come to mind, out of ignorance do unnecessary damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9406	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9407	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct the incorrect allegation of distinguished counterpart Pusic to disqualify the entire North-West region that he will not make maximum use of funds from the funds. Before making this very important decision, the Government gave the Zagreb Economic Institute to create simulations, and indeed they have done a simulation of how different divisions that are acceptable to Croatia and when they adopt this division into three regions were discussed that after three years, the revision of this could be accessed if it proved wrong. Here, so much so that the government thinks about it, it can be fixed. And Zagreb, and that was the main reason why no other decision was made, had no measurable indication that it had 800 thousand inhabitants and that was the main and basic reason why such a decision was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9408	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we'd be out of here by 3:00 now that we're back on this wheel. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, Mr. Shemso Tankovic will speak first and then we will go to an individual debate. Everyone, have a nice vacation. 15 o'clock, then! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get back to work. We are at the point of the proposal for a programme of statistical activities three points united. It is on behalf of the Club of National Minorities, Mr. Representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9410	Mr. President, dear colleagues, dear colleague. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, I am taking part in the debate on three points on the Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 on the Proposal for the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2008 and on the Proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012. These three points are being analysed integrally. And I can immediately say that this is one of the few points where we are on several occasions, so fellow eight MPs from the ranks of national minorities, we have kind of coordinated, discussed, and I have received one small authority to talk on behalf of our club about the positive aspects of all of this that we are discussing but also to warn of some details, some of the negative experiences that we as minorities have had in the past period, and we would like these things not to happen in the future. The first of those points refers to 2006. She's already well behind us. The second point is for 2008 and we are already halfway through that year. And finally, the third point is the proposal for these statistical activities for the period until 2012 and, as I said before, I sincerely hope that we will all be together then, so this is until 2012 and I hope that by then we will be part of the European Union so that we are practically now discussing statistical activities in the Republic of Croatia now as an independent and then also independent but part of the European Union. And what I would really say here at the beginning I think that the statisticians and the State Statistics Institute, they have really already integrated in many segments in Eurostat and in many things, perhaps if it were just a statistical segment of Croatia, but without greater objections, we are already in the European Union. We will therefore support these reports as a club and, of course, we will vote in favour of this proposal for a statistical activity programme from 2008 to 2012. Reading this material about the 2006 Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities, I was somewhat surprised to read these words on page 31: "Research on the health status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families.". And the following sentence is: "Activity has not been implemented because of the failure to meet the necessary preconditions related to the provision of material and human resources.". I know it is not the fault of the people of the State Statistics Institute, but I remain unclear how it is possible to place on the margin of events that part of our population, which is certainly the most responsible that we live in free Croatia today and build the foundations for the benefit of all its citizens. So, I'm really a little surprised. I didn't expect anything like that, but it's written in the report here. I don't think our defenders deserve it. For the second point and this is the proposal for an annual statistical implementation plan in 2008, again just a few fragmentary notes. If you have looked at this report it is 238 pages of very exhaustive text and here we are looking at a review of the activities that have already taken place or are happening and that will take place at the end of the year. I'm a statistics professor and I'm reading and I can say this part of the activity based on the experiences of my students who simply tell me that more and more from year to year they use the databases of the State Statistics Institute with pride I can say that we are increasingly satisfied with these data and with the kindness of the people we meet whether we use libraries, whether it comes to that data through the electronic system. It is only a sign that our National Bureau of Statistics and all other services act independently and when we talk about the independence of the State Statistics Institute, I would like to remind you of one detail, I read it today when I entered the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia website where the Director General, the Director General, emphasizes: "The independence of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia". Then, mentions several keywords, very important for this work, therefore, independence, organisation, quality, satisfaction of users of services etc., etc., etc. I point out this because as a member of a minority, I have to say the bad experiences we had when it was a census in 2001 in the Republic of Croatia. For us minorities, this list meant one systematic elimination of almost all members of national minorities. As for the Serb minority who was indisputable in Croatia, the most numerous of them have attached a new definition of the permanent population that has blended into a system for European statistics. But as for some other minorities, it remains somewhat unclear to me what happened to the Slovenians who are practically, who are halved in that census. But in the 2001 census, there was something that statistics should never be used again, official statistics should not be in the function of something that means the practical elimination of one or more national communities in the Republic of Croatia. I'll only stay on that segment for members of the Bosniak people. In 1993, Bosniaks returned their historical name after centuries of suspension of their national name. In 93, when we had the hardest time, when we had the most severe bleeding with the Croats, we returned to use our historical name. Our name is Bosniak. But in this census, even though we tried to talk to the then head of the State Statistics Institute, we talked and we tried in a way common to point out some new moments related to the census, what you can find now happened in all the statistical yearbooks. That in the section "others", so "others", you find half of the members of the Bosniak people. Of course, that's where the question is now, why did it really have to be? So I'm going to answer you, the answer was very clear, then they were already somehow prepared and new electoral formulations related to members of the national minorities and then Bosniaks were supposed to receive their own electoral unit as second to the number of minorities. Because if 45 thousand were shown in the figure, it would certainly warn the minority, however, what happened in the census, you will be members of a minority minority who, in letters and numbers, have 12. And they are as a separate minority clearly shown, but with 20 and a few thousand members of the Bosniak minority, which is recorded there by an old name, Muslim with a large "M" practically they are marginalized, they are removed and it is a classic element that statistics cannot work. It's a classic element. So, if a phenomenon is significant, it must be shown separately, it in the state statistics of 2000, the 2001 household census as such is not recorded. There are also a number of other details that clearly indicate that then politics has its own negative omen in the household list. Because of that, we're talking about it, I know there's nothing you can do about it right now. I know that we are as members of a minority people who according to some records in the Homeland War, there were about 20 thousand, as credible as this is, I am not going to enter this debate now, but I know that in statistical records somewhere around 1,000 Bosniaks have been recorded as people who have donated their lives to defend our common homeland. And it certainly couldn't have been the result of some kind of destruction, but it was the result of something that was a sign of a high degree of responsibility, members of a nation, of a minority community living in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I would also warn of a few very important moments that we need to point out today. They're here, they're right in front of us. In this, in this third point, the 2011 census is the proposal for a statistical activity programme by 2012. We're very interested in keeping that list valid. We, as well as the Club, will direct official initiatives and state statistical services, and in some ways we will warn them and us that we want this statistical activity to be correctly and properly realised. Finally, I would remind you that back in 1992, the European Union came up with the fundamental principles of official statistics within the region of the Economic Commission for Europe. So that document was adopted at the 47th session of April 15th. So this is a whole series of things that clearly and loudly state what official statistics are, how and how if there are some problems how they should be solved? I don't know if any of you remember, it was a long time ago when we discussed tourism in Croatia then we had official statistics that gave us data on the number of registered tourists, the number of overnight stays, and so on, but everyone who was more intense in the phenomenon of tourism also talked about unregistered tourist nights. Today, when we talk about that grey economy and so on, it simply becomes components, sources, starting points, and official statistics. Therefore, data must not be collected from only one source. There are other and different sources that may be even more credible and testify to some statistical phenomena. That is why I remind once again of this Resolution that has been adopted and which in some ways is our obligation because we want to be part of this united Europe. The Statistical Programme Committee also adopted the European Statistics Regulation in 2005. And in that Regulation, you will find a whole series of institutional frameworks that talk about professional independence, which talk about the power to collect data, about the appropriateness of the means used when collecting data. About the commitment to data quality, statistical confidentiality, neutrality, objectivity, statistical processes and so on. So we have a lot that has already been resolved at European level. At the end of the day, I would remind you that the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader, in the last meeting, also brought in for us who are more serious about statistical issues, also adopted a document. This was brought in on 28 April 2006, and it is called the Ethics Code of State Officials. I have to tell you this ethical code is practically and obligation, obligation how and in what way to act. And I remember the reaction after the first results of the 2001 census. I'm sorry I couldn't read these papers about the Ethics Code at the time, but for the European Statistics Regulation. And I believe and hope to join forces because I say once again, dear colleagues, it is particularly important for me to carry out this part of the work in 2011 on a valid, fair, correct and, as the Director of the National Statistics Office of Slovenia has said, regardless of any other negative influences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9411	Thank you. I would like to inform you that at 15 hours and 13 minutes, it is time for individual application for this point. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9412	Mr. Vice President, Director of the Department of Statistics, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to say right away that it seems to me that we still don't have enough awareness of the value of statistics and statistical research and that somehow we're always getting this little bit along the way. And in fact, statistics are becoming more and more the basis for the development of society in all segments. Not only economic decisions but also in social, health and other areas of life. It is therefore very important for statistics to be independent, particularly independent of politics. To be up-to-date and to be accurate, because then these are the data that are most useful for individual decisions from state authorities to those authorities in economic operators. Ours, our National Statistics Institute, has actually, in a very short time, come a very high-quality path from one statistics that has been static and one system to this day where it can be said that in many segments it is in line with the statistical research and data that leads the most advanced countries in the European Union and the world. Therefore, it is also necessary to give recognition to all those who worked during that period and today work at the State Statistics Office. But in this brief presentation, I would refer to one segment that I think will be very important at this very time, and where other institutions that may not have been included in this respect are included with people working at the State Statistics Office, and so on. agricultural statistics. We will soon open negotiations in this area, and we all estimate that this will be one of the most difficult negotiations regarding Croatia and its entry into the European Union, given the situation in our agriculture, from the fact that we have a very large number of entities in this area of activity, and fragmented properties, ununited entities, etc. and the importance of statistical indicators from land, structure, production and everything else will actually be crucial because it will be some start tomorrow that serves Croatian agriculture after entering the European Union. It is interesting that even in the government’s answers to the European Union questionnaire statistics were given great importance and actually paid a lot of attention to the answers to certain questions relating to statistics. And just in this area that relates to agricultural statistics, we actually had the most questions and the least quality answers because even when it was answered on this questionnaire we didn't have a register and then the government is saying that the biggest problem is actually that there is no register of agricultural holdings, that no bookkeeping for family agricultural holdings is conducted and that actually one of the largest portion of the agricultural records is being conducted based on estimates, not actual statistical research. I can't say there's not enough, but sure there's still a lot to do. So, what we have said and in response to the European Union questionnaire, we will establish a register of agricultural economies by 2004. Of course it can't be just the job of the State Statistics Office. Many institutions must be involved in this. Therefore, it is also necessary to form a register of agricultural holdings, but also a register of certain cultures. So we had an obligation, i.e. certain institutions, to make up a register I don't know vineyards, orchards and the like. It is hard to say that this work has been done to the end or that it has been well done. In both this and the previous reports and this report, it is once again concluded that we will need to work on this register. And as long as we don't have it, we don't even have quality data on agricultural production. We already have a lot of research today that applies not only to land, but also to certain records of agricultural products. However, it seems to me that we still have a lot of evaluations, and less of the actual data, so the question is, and what is this coverage and how realistic our balances can actually be that should work on production and needs, i.e. consumption of these and agricultural and food products. I would like to say that, in 2003, a huge job was done when a list of agricultural economies was made, and that so far it is the most important work actually done in the register of agriculture, or agricultural statistics, and that we are, in fact, still using that data to the greatest extent today. I would also like to draw attention to a document called the Strategy for the Development of Official Statistics of the Republic of Croatia by 2012 which corresponds to this research programme by 2012 where agriculture is also given a significant place and is said to be one of the priority statistics precisely in this sense of Croatia's involvement in the European Union. It is said that it is in this area and most of the regulations within EUROSTAT. So that's what's probably still coming to us and I'd like to appeal to all the state institutions and all those who can help make this very important and responsible and comprehensive work as soon as possible. In the end, I'd say we got a very good 2006 report. We expect very nearly this for 2007 and a very good programme of statistical research for this year, i.e. for the period until 2012 and that these documents are acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9413	Thank you. Dear Representative Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9414	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of a five-year work programme means the introduction of a longer-term and strategic reflection on the activities that are thought to be undertaken and the objectives to be achieved. This programme, together with the strategy for the development of official statistics adopted earlier in 2004-2012, shows that in this very important area statistics and statistical research, we are thinking in the long term about what is to be achieved and what deadlines. The programme provides for a range of activities from work on statistical registers to the introduction of new business statistics, and a population census plan in 2011. There is a clear link between the five-year statistical programme and the annual plan. The annual implementation plan shall be based on the programme of statistical activities and shall determine who and when any of the activities of the programme will be implemented. This is essentially an action plan involving all institutions that need to be supported. The plans of this type are necessary especially when several different bodies are involved in fulfilling the planned activities, and when it comes to official statistics on research activities with the State Statistics Office, there are 15 other bodies from the Croatian National Bank, the Ministry of Finance to the State Geodetic Administration and the State Hydrometeorological Institute. Statistical data are the basis for drawing conclusions on state and movement in certain areas from economy and economy to population, science and work. These data are key in the analysis of different countries and comparisons among countries working internationally. Often statistics are also used for day-to-day policy purposes because if there is no standard methodology, the same indicators can be interpreted differently. This is why statistical research and indicators are important based on the methodology used by most countries. In this part, the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 clearly shows. During 2006, there were significant activities and shifts related to harmonising our statistics with European statistics. Given the large scope and different fields of statistics, it is understandable that the coordination process takes several years, and the annual plan for the implementation of statistical activities for 2008 maintains the importance of full research in methodological and reporting terms with the European Union. Regular statistical research provides for 79 projects aimed at harmonising Croatian statistics with European Union statistics. The report on work for 2006 is a five-year programme of activity and work plan for 2008 which is interlinked and well-designed documents that enable us to monitor what has been done, what is done in the long term and in which the concrete way of planned activities for the five-year period will be implemented in one year. Given the good results and quality plans with very high priorities, we can be satisfied with the work of the State Statistics Institute and other bodies involved in the performance of official statistics and accept the report, the five-year programme and the 2008 plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9415	Thank you. Honorable representative Milivo Schwartz.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9416	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. In my discussion, I will focus on the report on the implementation of the 2006 annual implementation plan. The relevant definition of this report is contained in the fact that the implementation plan for statistical activities carried out by the State Statistics Office in cooperation with other official statistics holders is a continuation of compliance with the standards of the European Union. In this regard, the Institute of Statistics met and held official statistics from the Croatian National Bank, Ministry of Finance, Internal Affairs, Justice, Health and Social Care, Economics, Labour and Entrepreneurship, State institutions, administrations and agencies, as well as the general public with requirements set out by EUROSTAT before domestic statisticians. The statistical office of the European Union. The most visible developments have been achieved with regard to the reliability of statistical data, and their publication on websites has contributed greatly to the availability of data collected and processed through research and projects of the State Statistics Institute, which should certainly be continued. The annual implementation plan provided for the implementation of 278 regular statistical research and implementation, 59 other statistical activities related to expert works and development projects aimed at harmonising with European Union statistics. In order to implement the annual plan it was necessary to provide both material and human resources and not only in the State Statistics Institute, but also in all holders of official statistics. The planned regular research has been fully conducted as visible from this report, and this has been done in a way that has been adapted in particular to population statistics, labour markets, education, culture, research and development, personal consumption, justice and administration, all according to the recommendations. It is important that data collected and processed which satisfy the most frequently highlighted needs of domestic and foreign users are annual and quarterly gross domestic product, regionally, at county level, producer price indices and prices, then some essential macroeconomic elements such as gross national income, available income, savings, investment, net financial balances at the level of the total economy and individual sectors, which are data required by EUROSTAT to calculate globally for a possible comparative calculation of gross domestic product. Statistical research, collection, processing, storage and publication of a series of data from economic, demographic, social and environmental protection areas has been carried out by 16 authorised bodies involved in the implementation of 59 projects mainly carried out over a multi-annual period. Of the planned research, only some from the part of the Croatian Institute of Public Health have been conducted and 14 of them are without a prerequisite. The PHARE programme successfully worked on a multi-year project to explore the external and internal migration of the population in order to comply with EU standards and to improve the quality of data within the project also published a projection of the population of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2004 to 2051. The KARC programme continued to work on improving labour market statistics. Thus, the labour force survey is fully in line with the European Union Regulation. In the field of statistics on education, culture, research and development and sport, documentation has been prepared for the introduction of three new survey studies, and it is about research on adult education, the career of doctor of science and innovation. In 2006, EUROSTAT tables were filled with data on poverty indicators for Croatia, which are supplied by all Member States and candidate countries, and research in the area of personal consumption is continuously adapted to international standards. In the field of justice and administration statistics, indicators of serious criminal offences have been drawn up for five years. Revised data on juvenile crime as requested by UNICEF audited classification of criminal offences produced and published study on economic crime. During this reporting period, the State Institute continued to prepare for the full implementation of the Regulation on short-term business statistics from industry, construction, retail trade and other services that are important for the calculation of the quarterly gross domestic product. Important data not only for the European Central Bank, but for Croatian businessmen so that they can monitor economic development and current economic policy. In the area of rail transport, annual and quarterly data have been sent to EUROSTAT. In addition to other information relating to maritime transport, the list of ports of the Republic of Croatia has become an integral part of the list of ports of the European Union. It also recorded the current state of quality of electronic records of airport traffic, all in order to continue the process of adapting and harmonising statistical research from the transport, storage and connections to the statistical system of the European Union. The final objective of this multiannual project, which continues and in the 2008 annual implementation plan, is to fully comply with the European Union legislation, better quality and comprehensive data in this area, whose collection will be less burdensome in detail, and more to meet the requirements of those who need such data. In this way relevant data should also be provided for the development of long-term and short-term development programmes in the field of transport development of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9417	Thank you. Dear representative of Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9418	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. V.D. Director of the State Department of Statistics, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. The statistics of the Republic of Croatia, which has been developing for years towards adaptation to international and European statistical standards, should now be achieved in full compliance with European statistical standards and has already been placed on it by a large part of the requirements set out in the European Union Member States. This includes, above all, new methodologies, introduction of new statistical research and extensive reporting. In this respect, it is important to bear in mind that the requirements of European statistics are not their own purpose, but that such statistics, according to European standards, provide both a better and more transparent insight of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia into the facts that are relevant to their daily life and their business. In my brief presentation, I will specifically refer to the proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia from 2008 to 2012. The initial basis for drawing up a proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia from 2008 to 2012 is primarily the Strategy for the Development of Official Statistics of the Republic 2004 to 2012. This is a document whose purpose is to define long-term objectives, but also general principles, definitions and criteria for the action and development of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia. In terms of macroeconomic statistics, the main objective is essentially to introduce a quarterly gross domestic product, according to the production and consumption approach in current and constant prices on the principle of clean activity rather than on the institutional principle so far. With the full harmonisation of the two systems, it will be possible to compare, evaluate and make valid decisions on the measures needed to improve certain segments of social life. It is on this principle that this proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia from 2004 to 2012. It is important to stress that when the programme was drawn up, the needs of users were taken into account and the requirements of the European Union set out in the document... which is a reference document for the acquis communitre i.e. legal gain in statistics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The 2008-2012 statistical programme focuses on the implementation of the strategic objectives and individual objectives by the end of the period covered by the strategy. I would, in particular, refer to this occasion also to the programme of statistical activities of trade in goods with abroad. One of the most important tasks for the integration of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union is the monitoring of trade in goods with abroad. Therefore, a new survey will be introduced into the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia for the monitoring of the trade in goods of the Member States of the European Union on the basis of reports from business entities participating in the exchange and continuing trade in goods with third countries on the basis of the customs declaration. It is also important to note that, in addition to the quarterly, the annual gross domestic product will also be calculated according to the production consumption and income principle in current and constant prices on the principle of clean activities. One of the very important objectives, especially when it comes to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, is the calculation of the gross domestic product at regional level, which will make it comparable to the regions of the European Union. The complexity of all these proposed documents is already reflected in the scope and complexity of the activity in statistics, which has grown steadily year after year. It is therefore clear from the above documents that the large business was carried out by state statistics holders, and in particular the State Statistics Office as a central body with available resources, which the Republic of Croatia was able to budget for these purposes and provide. And finally, for all this, I give full support to the Report and the suggestions of statistical activities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9419	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9420	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Director, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will briefly say that first of all we will support the 2008 Annual Implementation Plan Report as well as the 2008 Proposal for a Plan, respectively. - In 2012. We are certainly pleased to continue to harmonise Croatian statistics in line with European Union standards so that we can talk about greater reliability of data and what may be particularly important about the availability of these data via the Internet. However, I would certainly like to ask a few questions, or perhaps better explained, especially as regards the report on the implementation of the annual implementation programme on page 38, it is said that during 2006, the existing model for the satellite accounts of tourism was updated. It still stands when the data required by the selected items, expenditure of the State budget 2001/2004, are obtained. The projection of tourism gross domestic product and tourist employment will be revised by 2010. Here's what I'm going to say is that it's known that the State Statistics Institute has signed a contract with VTTC from London in 2002 to build a tourist satellite balance. That this balance was also created and that every year there are millions of kuna funds in the state budget for the regular construction of the tourism balance. In 2006, the budget mentions the need for a study on the eligibility of satellite balance making, and what is interesting in the programme from 2008 to 2012 does not mention the satellite tourist balance. Here, I would say that tourism is one of the most important economic branches, that it is a generator of development and other branches of the economy, we will say agriculture of construction, service activities. And one such tourist satellite balance is certainly a significant tool in planning and overall development policy. Tourism, what I have already said, has a multiplier effect on both gross domestic product and employment, and I hold that such a tourist satellite balance should necessarily be found in the 2008-2012 programme. And in that part I will ask for clarification given that it is talking about tourism research, means more in the statistical number of nights, but not the tourist satellite balance which certainly speaks about the segment of this multiplicitial impact on other branches of the economy, but also on the gross domestic product or on employment in the Republic of Croatia. Here, we support the reports, so all three documents and please clarifications related to the tourist satellite balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9421	Thank you. And finally, the distinguished representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9422	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, Director of the Department of Statistics. This Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 shows that a total of 278 statistical research and additional 59 projects were carried out by 16 authorised bodies, including the Public Health Office. It is interesting that all planned research by all authorised bodies has been carried out entirely except for 14 statistical surveys, as mentioned above by the Institute of Public Health. The reason for the failure of these statistical surveys by the Institute of Public Health is, according to the report, the failure to meet the necessary preconditions relating to the provision of material and human resources. I will list just some of the 14 unexecuted statistical surveys of the Public Health Institute. Here is, for example, statistics on the implementation of a programme of preventive measures to protect infants and young children with a register of neuro-risk children. In addition, it is a monitoring of the basic parameters of growth, development and health of pre-school children, and then statistics on the implementation of specific and preventive healthcare measures for regular students. Why am I saying that? I'm saying all this because I think that research into preschool children's preschool children, preschool children, so infancy and students simply shouldn't have run out of money. Furthermore, no research has been carried out in relation to the health care of workers. For example, statistics on the implementation of specific and preventive health care measures for workers or, for example, research on targeted improvement in primary health care. I'm saying this because in the Republic of Croatia, on average, there are 60 thousand workers on a daily basis. So, we're country with high pains. Statistical research provides data, so one quality basis to address these problems, and I wonder why no material and human resources for such research have been provided. Is it not important to understand the reasons, i.e. the causes of severe illnesses, and to establish measures to address this truly great social problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9423	Thank you. And on the spot, a review of the applicant. Dear Darko Jukić, V.D. Director of the State Statistics Office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9424	First of all, I would like to thank you for, if I understood correctly, the support of all the clubs that said they would support our documents on, I would say, very constructive discussions, on praises. We've taken the critics into account, and we'll try to correct what's in our power in the future. The problem of this period for the statistical system is to adapt to the European system and balance it in the context of available resources as we can. There were suggestions for some complex indicators to count. At this point, we cannot determine exactly when and how we could do it beyond what is not required of EUROSTAT. In such cases we cooperate with institutes, I can say very well, less with colleges, more with institutes, because there is knowledge that we sometimes lack in such complex calculations. It is possible that some complex indicators can be performed from existing data, but this requires that I say knowledge that is sometimes not stationed with us. As far as the census is concerned, I also said in the opening statement that this was a major task, the biggest, most extensive for statistics. I hope these problems that have been in the past will be solved for mutual satisfaction. I can say that the preparations, it may seem to someone in 2011, are far away, but it is very close to us, we are following the rhythm of European and UN preparations for the 2010 round. Methodological preparation has begun, and assistance and cooperation with all stakeholders interested in this job will be needed. Last list I think about 27 thousand direct participants have been hired, then you can imagine how much work this is for us because we as the State Statistics Office are coordinating with this big deal. What Mr. Tankovic mentioned about independence and documents is this document. We don't have an official translation, so I'll just say it's a European Statistics Code of Practice, in which the first principle is professional independence. And that's something Europe recognized and that's our document that we have in mind. Part of these principles has already been incorporated into our existing Law on Official Statistics. Agricultural statistics are very large, generally the statistical part of the legal gain has, someone has told us that immediately after the agricultural part is the most extensive, so it is clear that agriculture statistics are also very important. We, of course, as you've noticed, can't finish it and do it alone, so we've strengthened cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, so we've also signed an agreement on cooperation. There's this story about administrative data sources. Cheapest and best for the country is when cooperation and data exchange from administrative sources combines with their own research. We are trying to influence not only the agricultural part but also other parts of the statistics to develop administrative data sources. In Scandinavian countries, we have been told that more than 90% of the data they receive from administrative data while we are still getting most of our data through classical research on businesses or households. It seems inevitable that the statistical environment is moving towards greater use of administrative data, and depending on the availability and quality of administrative data so available to statistics, the countries combine these two sources. As far as the satellite balance is concerned, the problem is that it is based on data sources that are not always high enough and then different opinions, you probably know that they were very conflicting opinions about the quality of the calculation. We'll keep working on it. There are the same combination of the tourism ministry and our several departments, tourism departments, departments of national accounts. We will continue to try to do this, but I say there is no problem so much I calculate but the quality and availability of data sources entering the satellite balance. Once again, I would just like to thank everyone for their support, and this is this exhaustive debate, and it is also an indication to me that what I also said about statistics is slowly rising in both the state administration and the general public, because, of course, statistics do nothing for themselves but for everyone else, and in this questionnaire that you mentioned in our chapter that was not then 18 but I think 12, there was not one single data contained except perhaps the number of employees. All the data was requested under other chapters. Thanks again, everybody.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9425	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We will vote when the conditions for voting on that agenda point are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9426	We are going to the Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. The debate is concluded, I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, which reads: "The report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2006 is accepted. "years." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 110 votes, and 3 abstentions have been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9493	We move to the 6th item of the agenda, which is - The Final Proposal of the Law on the Introduction of European Co-operation – Socatas Cooperation Europe (SCE), with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 67 The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 84 of the basic Regulation, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 129 and 159 Rules of Procedure. You took the materials into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Policy and Political System, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tajana Kesic Sapic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9494	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this law implements Council Regulation 1435 of the European Community of 22 July 2003 on the Statute of the European Co-operation, i.e. it is introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, which brings the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legislation of the European Union. The Regulation was adopted in 2003 and entered into force on 18 August 2006. The aim of this law is by implementing a regulation to enable the establishment of a European cooperative by natural persons resident in different Member States or legal persons established under the law of different Member States. It also enables the establishment of a European cooperative through the merger of an existing cooperative or through the reshaping of a cooperative into a European cooperative without the prior termination of it with a minimum share capital of 30,000 euros. This law will, by linking different economic operators from different Member States to a European cooperative, allow for an increase in their competitiveness, enable a joint appearance on the European market, facilitate access to the capital market, reduce the costs associated with the establishment of subsidiaries in other Member States, promote co-operation as a specific and desirable form of an economic operator, facilitate access to the results of research and development of new products, and facilitate access to business information and develop ultimately Croatian cooperatives. At the same time, the implementation of Directive 72 of the European Community relating to Chapter 19 – Social policies and employment, which complements the Statute of the European Cooperative for the participation of workers in its management, will allow for the active participation of workers in the management of the European cooperative, thus achieving the social objectives of the European Union. And I must finally say that this law enters into force and the application of this law is by entering the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union and I would like to say that I accept, on behalf of the Proposer, amendments to the Legislator Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9495	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Legislative Committee, President-in-Office Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9496	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee at the 14th session held on 13 May 2008, discussed the proposal for a law on the introduction of a European cooperative. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. In the debate, it is pointed out that this law applies directly to the European Cooperative Council of the European Community and, in part, Croatian regulations with a question of the legal nature or legal force of that Regulation. A representative of the applicant informed the Committee that that Regulation falls within the rules of the European Union to be applied directly to entities in the Republic of Croatia from the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. For this reason, this law is also subject to the same regulation as already passed by laws introducing a European society, which regulates registration, evaluation, authorisation and restrictions of chemicals. And fourthly, on the text of the final proposal, the Committee shall submit the following amendments. First, Article 7. In Article 7, the word "society" is replaced by the word "cooperatives". And second, to Article 12. In Article 12, the words "power" are replaced by the words "on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union". The explanation for one and the other amendments is that a legal and nomotechnical amendment is made itself express. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9497	Thank you. Committee on Development and Reconstruction, Honorable Zdenka Chuhnil, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9498	Dear Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 2nd session held on 15 May 2008 discussed the proposal for a law on the introduction of a European cooperative, with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 8 May 2008, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Proposed Law shall be adopted by means of an urgent procedure. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the bill as an interested working body. In the opening statement of the representative, it was said that this proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and that the adoption of the Regulation on the Statute of the European Cooperative is organised by a specific European cooperative which can operate throughout the European Union market and that the proposed law allows for the establishment of cooperatives by natural and legal persons from different Member States with a minimum share capital of 30 thousand euros. With regard to the participation of cooperative members in its management, the possibility of active participation of members involved in the management of the European cooperative shall be opened, thereby achieving the objectives of the European Union. The debate highlights the need to promote cooperatives in existing conditions as a specific and desirable form of economic action in new associations, thus achieving the expansion and strengthening of Croatian cooperatives and overall economic action. In particular, the problem of poor conditions in the area of agricultural cooperatives is highlighted, with an emphasis on the needs of information and education of the agricultural producer on the benefits of association in agricultural cooperatives. The possibility of connecting different economic operators in the joint action as a specific form of association has been praised, which will positively affect the increase in production primarily of plasma and the competitiveness of products in the markets, particularly when it comes to small producers. It is also necessary for the promotional action in the segment of the association of production and the common market approach in order to get good experience before entering the European Union as soon as possible and to adopt the principles of cooperative principles as an instrument for achieving the common cooperative values and objectives. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law establishing a European cooperative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9499	Thank you. We're moving on to a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Ratko Gajica. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9500	Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Co-operation on the European continent has a centuries-old tradition. That this is the case, among other things, of the data on the number of memberships at the global level of associations. It is about 800 million people who are members of cooperatives, the number of cooperative employees, more than 100 million of them, and in particular the number of people who generate revenue from cooperatives of about 3 billion and half of the world's population. At the European level, cooperatives form a significant part of the economy. This is how 132,000 cooperatives with around 83 million members and 2.3 million employees operate in the EU today. Croatia as well as most European countries have a tradition of cooperativeism. However, at different historical times, cooperatives knew better and less good times. Today, co-operation in Croatia still does not play the role that it would play in terms of potentials as seen from global figures on how it could have been at world and European level. Although the Cooperatives Act has solved some of the problems in the business of cooperatives, work analysis suggests that there are still too few cooperatives on the market for which there are several reasons. I'll just list some of them. First of all, it is a negative attitude towards cooperatives as part of historical heritage, a lack of recognition of the role of cooperatives by local and regional self-government units, a weak capital base of cooperatives, an average small number of cooperatives per cooperative, etc. However, in order to ensure that Croatian cooperatives benefit as much as possible from the common market in this preparatory period, additional efforts should be made to promote the benefits of the cooperative system, in particular to encourage successful cooperatives, social cooperatives and cooperatives with specific national concerns, to promote the integration of cooperatives in order to develop common products, joint market performance, etc. Thus, during this period so far, between 2004 and 2007, several ministries invested around 55 million kunas in this area of cooperative development. I, therefore, would like to point out here from these aids granted, particularly those granted by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, which is now the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Thus, with about 25 million kunas, they encouraged the establishment and development of about 500 cooperatives. In this context, it is particularly important to point out that around 130 aids worth 20 million kunas are allocated precisely to cooperatives which are members of the developed defenders. Finally, although not only important, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, with 25 million in general, to support cooperatives, gave 5 million kunas to student cooperatives precisely with the aim of 250 schools of awareness-raising of cooperativeism, promotion of innovation, independence, accountability and entrepreneurship. We believe that these measures, thus far, that the Government has invested in this area and those which, of course, will, during this period until Croatia enters the European Union, will follow that this picture that the Croatian cooperatives are currently having will have to fix, and therefore the advantages that can be achieved by the adoption of this Law that we are talking about today can achieve their fullness. So that our cooperatives could participate in the European market in the way that this is today possible by Regulation No 1435 of 2003. So this regulation, which we are creating in our legislation the necessary preconditions for its implementation, will therefore allow, on the new basis, the basis of which it is very clear and transparent how it works on the whole of the European Community. This was also the reason why the European Union came this way to regulate this, therefore, matter. It went to the Regulation precisely for it to be applied equally in all Member States. This Regulation allows the introduction of a European cooperative by natural and legal persons resident in different Member States. It was also updated by Council Directive 2003/72 of the European Community in a way that ensures the participation of participants in governance for this form of business creation. I would like to point out that the Regulation clearly defines the principles to which cooperatives should act. Thus, the European Cooperative's affairs must be led to the mutual benefit of the members. All members shall have the right of supervision under equal conditions. The share in the underlying capital should be limited and so on. The minimum core capital of this cooperative must be EUR 30 000 and the cooperative can act on the whole European Union market, which actually means that it can expand cross-border activity without additional costs in establishing a network of dependent companies. Finally, such integration and action in an area that is significantly greater than national will make it possible to increase competitiveness, facilitate access and facilitate a joint appearance on the European market, facilitate access to the capital market, reduce costs, facilitate access to the results of research and development of new products, and promote cooperation as a specific and desirable form of an economic operator. Finally, although this is not the only policy of the European Union in the area of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, it is aimed at strengthening the European dimension of entrepreneurship because by connecting entrepreneurs and reorganising businesses adapted to the new conditions of the common European market, it strengthens the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises throughout the European Union. In our frameworks, the adoption of this law will provide opportunities for cross-border integration and work which will open up opportunities for our cooperatives to improve this part of the economy. Finally, it is certainly a law that can contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, employment and, in particular, to stronger regional development, as a whole, and to increasing the overall improvement and prosperity in the Republic of Croatia. Due to all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9501	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club esteemed Neven Mimica, vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9502	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would, on behalf of the SDP Club, stay at two levels in the debate on this bill of law to discuss the issues that are being regulated by this law. The first level is principled. The first level is general. The level relating not so much to the content of this law as to the fact that this law continues after it has been done in two previous laws, the practice of practically direct, direct application of European, European legislation in the Croatian national legislative system continues. And the second part, the second level of consideration, will refer to the content itself of a few issues related to the content that is being edited by this, the specific content that is being edited by this Bill proposal. Earlier in establishing the agenda on behalf of the SDP Club and later on, on the basis of the conclusions of the Committee on European Integration, the question arises whether this law should be adopted in an emergency procedure, i.e. it is practically just a matter implemented. The main question is whether, is this bill in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Croatia? This first question is whether or not an emergency procedure is necessary is less important and I think that, basically for this content of the law, the emergency procedure can be accepted, but it is much more important to consider the compliance of such defined provisions with the Constitution and with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, what does it say basically if it simplifies the matter, what does this proposal for a law on the introduction of a European cooperative? He says in the Republic of Croatia this and this relevant regulation of the European Union or of the European Acqui Communityaire will be applied directly. The fact itself, and the other thing that is said here is: "This direct application will begin on the day of Croatia's accession to the European Union." The fact that, by one Croatian law, it proposes direct application of or direct application of European regulations, European legislation itself is certainly not in accordance with the Croatian Constitution, because simply the Croatian Constitution does not provide for direct application of both Somalia and European legislation in Croatia. This is not possible under today's constitutional arrangement. International contracts can be used in Croatia. It is possible that these international agreements have pre-priority, and Croatian laws, however, the legislation of a third country or the alliance of states, whatever we define, cannot be applied directly to the European Union at this time under the Constitution. Even today in the Croatian system, however, one law passed by the Parliament at the end of the term of office, and then another law on the introduction of a European society and European interest association has already practically introduced into the Croatian legal system the direct application of European legislation and the implementing law that we will consider during this session also has the elements of the introduction of a proposal for the introduction of direct application of European legislation. So, basically in the Croatian legal system it is not possible, it is definitely not possible, and you will not find a legal expert who, or a constitutional expert, would confirm to you that it is possible to apply directly under the Croatian Constitution, either Europeanly, any other national legislation. However, there is one provision at the end of this bill that speaks about when such regulated provisions will enter into force and they say that the law will enter into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union. Is this sufficient reason to now confirm that our respective committees, meaning the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Law, is that sufficient to confirm that these two committees are still in conformity with the Constitution and the legal system? That's basically a fundamental question. These two committees said that this is a sufficient reason, since this bill is not immediately applied, but only after Croatia enters the European Union, that this is sufficient reason to assess that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I personally, and the SDP Club has legal doubts about such a provision, because simply the fact that Croatia becomes a member of the European Union or the moment Croatia joins the European Union is not sufficient reason for this law which is contrary to the Constitution and the legal system to enter into force if the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is not changed before. Therefore, I think there are enough reasons, if not on committees, our committees, then before the Constitutional Court to question the constitutionality of such a bill. However, the SDP's position is not to question, nor is the SDP's intention to question the constitutionality of this bill, it is our intention and desire to find a way to allow Croatia's legislation to be harmonised more effectively with the legislation of the European Union. Therefore, and such a bill by me, if there is a way of saying today that certain provisions of European legislation will be applied in the Croatian legal system, let's agree on what is then a way to do so, and yes, I will not say that it removes any constitutional doubt or whether it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, but to the extent that it opens up a space for such a question of the constitutionality of these provisions. In fact, if we agree that the draft of this law is in accordance with the Constitution because it is only beginning to apply from Croatia's membership in the European Union, I think it is not enough to just say it, it is constitutional, the law is constitutional and it is in accordance with the legal system. In addition, I think it should be made clear that it can really become constitutional if it changes the Constitution, means that in discussions in the Constitution, changes to the Constitution that are ahead, not because of this, but because of a number of other reasons, one of the issues, one of the important issues that will be discussed in this process, is to regulate the primacy and direct impact of European law, i.e. allowing regular courts in Croatia to exempt themselves from the application of Croatian law and other regulations if they are contrary to some legal rule of European law. So, we must firstly determine that the real entry into force of this Act on the introduction of a European cooperative or similar laws which directly introduces the application of the European right to change the Constitution, whether or not Croatia will become a member of the European Union. The second issue that needs to be discussed is primarily business nature. For the real entry into force of this law, it is very important that the Parliament simply learns about what it adopts as a rule of conduct, as a rule of conduct and as a rule of law in Croatian national legislation. We here say in this bill that it is simple that, if the regulation of this European law is not otherwise prescribed, then these provisions of the law apply, it is obvious that the regulation is directly applicable, and nowhere in this whole document I have the full content of the regulation to apply in the Croatian legal system. How the representatives of the Croatian Parliament will raise their hands to apply any provisions for which they do not know what the content of these provisions is. Simply put, the regulation of the sea, the European Regulation must be an integral part or at least an annex to this bill in order to know what we are introducing as a direct application of European legislation. The Croatian version, I mean, you can say, is on the Internet, you can find this text of this regulation, it will apply in Croatia, but how will the courts, as the court says here, register European cooperatives under this regulation, but what will the court take as a basis for its actions? What will the inspections later take as a basis for their actions in this or other laws that directly apply European regulations? English version of the text, French, German, Maltese. I don't know what's in the case of a dispute over the interpretation of the text of the provision which is the original text? Of course it should be Croatian original text, he does not have it for this regulation in addition to this bill. Therefore, I think if we already accept that it is possible to apply European legislation directly in this way, then we must know that the Rules of Procedure must stipulate that the Proposer must, with such laws in the future, and even with this law, attach the Croatian version of the text of European legislation, the European regulation, the European regulation that will be applied directly in the Republic of Croatia. The second level of this debate concerns a little more specifically the very subject of cooperativeism. As a whole, the SDP is fundamentally interested in the issue of cooperativeism in an appropriate, better way than it is now done in Croatian, not only legislation, but in Croatian economic practice. The European Union works largely on the basis of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, on the basis of cooperatives, cooperatives, and these are not the cooperatives they unfortunately have in Croatia, carrying with them the burden of one historical cooperative as it was after World War II. Therefore, this socialist or better to say the communist system of forced cooperatives simply burdens general thinking of cooperatives today and even dares to say that today, the current law on cooperatives in Croatia has largely been done to remove it from this unacceptable and burdensome practice of agricultural working cooperatives, and not so much, has not been done to bring it closer to the European model of cooperativeism. This law simply does not address the issue and problem of strengthening cooperatives by introducing European cooperatives. This is a model, a special model that is introduced by this law. The model would say imported cooperatives, cooperatives in which cooperatives from one, the other, third or at least two countries operate across borders, and it is not the original way to solve, strengthens the cooperative system in Croatia, the system of Croatian cooperatives of the cooperative system. Therefore, there is still much work ahead of us to strengthen, legislative strengthening of the cooperative system, a system of co-operatives better than it has been settled in the current law of social cooperatives, the real co-operations of Europeans, not only in agriculture, but in construction, in any other area, and I think it is an important part of the work that will not be solved by this law itself. And the last thing I'd say here. In addition to this law, no effort has been made directly to analyse the impact of such European cooperatives on the competitiveness of ours to say originally Croatian cooperatives either those which are now established under the applicable law or those which will be established under the amended law. These European cooperatives can and are likely to be easy to assume that there will also be competition for those cooperatives that only Croatian cooperatives will have, even very serious competition. And therefore, the question arises, for example, whether it is necessary for this Law on European Cooperatives to enter into force on the same day that we join the European Union. Is it possible that we need a transitional period longer after membership to strengthen our internal cooperative system, our own cooperative system and to deal with the competition of European cooperatives? Therefore, such laws that directly introduce the application of European rules must be related to the negotiation process must be linked to the impact assessment of the competitiveness of our companies in this case cooperatives of any commercial society or of anyone else. Therefore, we ask that, with regard to the adoption of such laws, their impact on the state of Croatia be assessed The SDP can basically pass a law like this, but these remarks and these remarks that we made, I think we should take it quite seriously. [[Intruder: Bring the end!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9503	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9504	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to correct an esteemed colleague in the part where he said, once or twice, that this bill or the text itself is unconstitutional and, of course, not according to the logic of things, it's not. The final and transitional provisions literally state that they will be applied on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. I am also saying this because it is, of course, attached to the regulation in question, so the original text, language, etc. is also mentioned. The fact that Croatia enters the European Union will, of course, be in the sense of application, indirect application in Croatian, and this regulation will only serve to implement the Croatian legislation of cooperatives as an institute and in relation to existing cooperative institutes in the Republic of Croatia. So I absolutely correct that quote of yours when you said that this bill or the provisions of the law itself are unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9505	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, esteemed Tajana Kesic Sapic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9506	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'd just like to look back on a few elements, the things that the distinguished parliamentary representative has brought out here. I do not know, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, but according to the Rules of Procedure of the Government, therefore, the Council of the European Community Regulation exists in Croatian and is delivered with the draft law. I don't know how it happened that this regulation didn't come to the Parliament, but all the committees, so on all the committees that I participated in, we e-mailed the regulation in Croatian so that we could discuss that MPs could be prepared. This regulation, after the adoption of this law, will also be on the website of the Ministry of Economy, on the website of the Ministry of Economy, on the website of the Ministry of Justice, the Commercial Court, so that all those interested can see what this is about, because the Explicity Act applies, or calls for a regulation. Therefore, all that relates to the establishment of a European cooperative is in principle defined in this Regulation. I fully agree with you in your two points on the state of co-operation in the Republic of Croatia and definitely must go into the creation of a new Co-operation Act, because this existing law has proved not to have obtained the results that should have been. He was brought in in 2002. So, definitely this year, it goes into the creation of a new Cooperative Act, where the application of cooperative values and principles should be defined, a minimum cooperative stake, an increase in the number of cooperatives needed to establish a cooperative, determine the procedure and method of distribution of profits and coverage of losses, determine legal indivisible reserves, clearly determine ownership of cooperative assets, determine the implementation of cooperative audits and others. These are all the things that have been identified in this current law that have not adequately worked on the ground. It will also continue to promote the advantage of the cooperative system. In particular, the specific measures we have put in place since this year will encourage successful cooperatives, so cooperatives that can be competitive on the market and which will be able to be part of this European cooperative. And as for the first part about the constitutionality or the unconstitutional nature of this law, I think he answered his colleague. So, definitely the Council Regulation was delivered by e-mail to committees, and now I don't know by the Rules of Procedure whether everyone needs it or just committees. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9507	Thank you. That concludes the debate on clubs and we move on to individual debates. He is the first respected representative, Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9508	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. To be honest, when I received the material of the bill on the establishment of a European cooperative, I thought it was something common that comes to the Croatian Parliament, I would almost say that we are passing such laws on the tape, if I had not also received a report from the debate of the Committee on European Integration. In its conclusion, the Committee on European Integration also asks the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to consider the consistency of the proposal with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, the Committee notes that this is in line with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It's all right to say, but nothing really is right, because Croatian MPs don't get the act they have to confirm in this House. The contents of this regulation, say which one of the representatives has in their hands? Great. We've got one. Thank you very much. Excellent majority in the Croatian Parliament, and we will accept something that is questionable from two points of view, I will tell you about. Let me put it this way first. In Croatia, a social climate is created or created that any critical debate on the harmonisation of Croatian laws with property or with the laws of the European Union countries is declared a euro of skepticism. Although if we were to get into the essence of things, the negotiators would have to keep in mind the Croatian interest in the first place and it is foreseen in each of the chapters and in each of the laws. In fact, even acts of the European Union and the Stabilisation Agreement say negotiations are being conducted on the basis of negotiating positions. The negotiating positions in the European Union shall be represented on behalf of the Member States by the President of the Council of the European Union, and the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia whose drafts are drawn up by individual working groups shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, etc. In these areas, the candidate country may request transitional periods in areas where there are difficulties in accepting an acquis in a particular area during the negotiations. It may even request that not even in a moment's time of accession to the European Union be applied to every regulation that we adopt, depending on our defined interests. Here we accept the regulation as a supranational regulation although the European Union knows three pillars of legislation, so a supranational regulation and it is precisely set out in the European Union what is regulated by this. Then acts which each member must accept as an agreement and contracts and acts which each member must enter into his or her legislation in order to be acceptable and to be able to apply. When it comes to regulations as far as I know, regulations are not acts directly applicable as supranational legislation. Regulations are not acts applicable as supranational legislation. What I could read from the acts of the European Union and the Stabilisation Agreement. If we look at the essence and the reasoning of these laws, it's interesting that in the explanation and assessment of the situation, it says that cooperatives are not designed to make them profit. Cooperatives have imagined it all, and here it writes, so that the cooperatives will exercise their own interest. I welcome that. But on the other page, he says that profits should be shared, so cooperatives that do not work to gain on the other page, says profits should be shared in accordance with business with the European cooperative or kept for the satisfaction of their members. Now, in a situation this schizophrenic, I can only say that someone here paints us. Either the cooperative is founded to earn and to have profit and to be divided by the principle that you have invested in a cooperative so much you have the right to profit or it only creates interests that are not cashed by cooperatives. We'll even ignore it. If the cooperative is open without borders by a supranational regulation, is Croatia competitive in this sense to immediately open the borders as if national borders and national interests had ceased when it entered the European Union. If so, an agreement with the European Union would not mean that a Member State does not immediately have to accept all the elements of the Association Agreement on the same day that it enters the European Union but leaves deadlines for it to bring its interests into line within a certain time limit in order to be competitive with entities or Member States or European Union countries. I simply cannot accept to raise my voice even though I am declared a euro of skepticism, an act that we have not received as citizens in this House and responsible for them, based solely on the trust of the government or negotiators. Let us at least have the right to see an act that we will confirm. That would be correct for the citizens, for the national interests, but also for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9509	Thank you. We first have a correction to the incorrect allegations, it is the distinguished representative Marija Burić Pejcinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9510	Thank you very much. I would correct the allegations of my colleagues, Lek, that the regulations are not acts that apply directly. So here's the regulation: Article 249. The Treaty establishing the European Community shall be defined as acts of general application which are fully binding and directly applicable in the Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9511	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, esteemed Tajana Kesic Sapic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9512	Thank you very much. I've remained in your debt one answer, and it's also related to the answer of the esteemed representative, Lek. This Regulation therefore states in its Article 80 that the Regulation is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. So the Regulation applies directly in all Member States, so it is binding. But there is a difference between the regulation and there is a difference between the directive in Chapter 19 – Social policy and employment there is a Directive 72 which complements the Statute of the European Cooperatives, which is precisely the one adopted by this Regulation and which applies to the participation of workers in its management. This Directive 72 must be incorporated into the Labour Act which is also in line with the acquis of the European Union. In order for the directive to be incorporated into the law, which refers to the regulation not only of the Regulation establishing a European cooperative but also of the Regulation establishing a European company of economic and interest, we had to make the Law establishing a European cooperative in order to have something to do with this directive because we in our national legislation do not have the concept of a European cooperative or that regulation. That's why the law was passed. And also, Chapter 19 – Social policy and employment are parallelly passed four laws that are therefore in line with the negotiator, with the views and transitional periods of those who are in that section so that it cannot be said that something was passed in this law beyond Chapter 19 of the negotiations on social policy and employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9513	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed Neven Mimica vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect allegation that we, by the very fact that somewhere in European legislation, are prescribed that a regulation is directly applicable in Member States that we must and that we can apply that regulation in Croatia's national legislation directly at the moment when we join the European Union, when we become a member of the European Union. Namely, we simply cannot do so unless the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia changes previously. The precondition for the direct application of European rules is the prior amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, not the entry into the membership of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9515	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9516	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. With this draft law on the introduction of the EU cooperative, our cooperatives will soon begin with the draft cooperatives and act in them according to European standards. This will clearly be adopted by the regulations, and I see that it is controversial here today about the Statute of the EU Co-operation, which will enable legal and natural persons and members of the European Union to establish their cooperatives in Croatia. They will be able to be established clearly if the necessary conditions are ensured. As a basis, it is necessary to provide for the basic capital that we see at a minimum amount of 30 000 euros. They will be able to operate under the same rules throughout Europe and without any additional costs they will be able to expand their activities beyond the borders of the countries where it was established. A thousand and 19 cooperatives are enrolled in the Register of the Croatian Union of Cooperatives. There are some 18 thousand and 700 cooperatives and about 3,000 and 500 employees. This suggests that the cooperative did not live in our area as we expected in accordance with the law that was passed in 1995 on amendments and additions in 2001 and 2002, I will do something after I personally think that the cooperative did not come to life, so I will be on the trail of those who propose amendments and additions to this law. Why do I say that? Because in the world, the picture is completely different. The cooperative has about 8 hundred million members and about a hundred million employees. There are about 132,000 cooperatives in the European Union with some 83.5 million members and 2.3 million employees and they have one remarkable and significant impact on living standards, entrepreneurship, the economy as a whole. And according to indicators, all these cooperatives around the world employ 20% more people than a strong multinational company and almost half of the world's total income comes from cooperatives. This law will make it clear to connect different economic operators from different Member States to European cooperatives. And what you're getting is just as signifying. It will increase competitiveness, facilitate access to a joint EU market, simply come to the capital market, reduce costs related to the draft of those subsidiaries in other Member States, facilitate access to research results, develop new products, easier access to business information. In the end, this should in any case affect the development of cooperation in Croatia because the arrival of someone else will clearly give us a boost. What we should also say is that cooperatives have been present for a long time, according to indicators of some about 150 years and cooperatives have had a very significant impact in economic terms, but they have also had a political impact on life, all somewhere until the end of World War II, when cooperatives are created to whom it was already clear that they are being denied due to the way they are set up and the way they act, and that is probably one of the most negative heritages why and today, despite the fact that the current law has solved some fundamental problems in the business of cooperatives that have failed to fight for some significant place. So, in any case, this historical heritage has created a negative attitude toward cooperatives, even if there are positive examples, we can't exactly say that everything was negative in this regard. However, not only is the historical legacy a problem, but the problem is even at another level, and that is that our cooperatives are not sufficiently educated. There is insufficient knowledge of all the issues and of what is actually obtained by joining a cooperative. In fact, they still have no idea that his hectare of land on which he can have some kind of hectare of apples does not represent anything on the market but 50 of them organised would mean that they still have some signification in supplying the chain over a long period of time. So, the educational part is not yet so marked with them, as each of them has a 15 or 20,000-euro tractor, it has its own freezer. So he's alone today in the position that he's both a manufacturer and a seller etc., everything appears alone. But in all of that, he would go into cooperatives when he talked to them if he could sell what's quality alone, what's unquality through a cooperative. So, and it's part of the necessity or whatever it is that comes from maybe whether there's a situation where there's an inheritance and through probably the structure of the members themselves, including the supervisory board, etc. Why did I actually take a word in all this? Because I come from an area known for agricultural production. In the area of Vrgorca, there are no less than anywhere around 9 million vines planted, about a million and a half strawberries, and I am not talking about everything else about thousands and thousands of plums, peaches, nectarines, etc., and people have not accepted the initiative, or whether the legal possibility is enough for only three natural persons to establish a cooperative, except for the rare examples we have in our area, and all of which may be because I say this ignorance, need, a historical heritage that is also very important, but because of therefore of some kind of mutual relationship from which many problems arise, because it will accept everything, but not to be with its neighbour within one cooperative because some basic principles and relations have not yet been established, and that it is to understand that it should be done in market relations, and not on the basis of whether he is talking to the neighbour of capital that the value of the capital is not being discussed. And in that respect, maybe we should do more work. What is now happening on the market should not happen if we have buyers who are therefore blackmailing people, who are more inclined precisely because they have the possibility of being given what is currently available to them. However, regardless of these shortcomings, since it is clear to me that there must be some shortcomings everywhere, and we have to get over this basic, fundamentally the time of the creation of cooperatives and the time at which they are now organised, and they are beginning to live is as much a time as any who must have something transitional within themselves. I believe that our people will realize that cooperatives will be what they won't be able to do tomorrow and do business without which they won't actually represent anything on the market, they won't be able to produce and I believe this will be encouraging and therefore we from the Croatian Democratic Community will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9517	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9518	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In addition to these remarks that my colleague Mimica made on behalf of our club, I would actually dedicate my debate to cooperative and cooperative association as a process. It is actually a worldwide acknowledgement of the movement that began in the early 19th century and in practice proved to enlarge and liberate an individual and community. The first cooperative in the world was founded back in 1844 in England, but in Croatia already in 1864 in Korcula, and the first Association in Croatia was founded in 1907 in Dalmatia. So it's the cradle of our cooperative. The fundamental cooperative principles are voluntary and open membership, democratic oversight in the hands of membership, the economy of participation of members, independence and independence, education, training, information, cooperation between cooperatives and community care. Therefore, it differs significantly from the capital company and from those which profit from capital. The main objective of the cooperative is to achieve the interests of the members, and the main motives for cooperative association are to lower production costs by joint investments, to perform more effectively on the market, to develop and enrich both themselves and the community. The benefits of association with cooperatives are actually a continuous offer, a larger quantity of products that can meet the needs of larger customers, so it applies to those small producers. Then ensuring more favourable prices of reproductive material, ensuring greater power to negotiate with potential customers, more rational use of money, machines, equipment and human potentials, enables more cooperatives to connect, enables increased competitiveness through joint planning and marketing activity and many other advantages. So Croatia has a tradition of cooperativeism for more than a century and over time cooperatives have been going through various stages, from blooms to total marginalization. During the conversion of the 1990s, the state gave priority to the companies of capital over cooperatives. This keeps the economic sectors apart, especially in terms of agricultural production, processing plants that are left to merciless foreign competition. Although attempts to restore cooperativeship have been made over the last decade, we do not achieve even approximately the results in terms of modern achievements in this area, as cooperatives are seen as the institutions of the socialist system. Co-operation can be a key factor in the development of agriculture, crafts, housing, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, but can also become a third sector that can create a significant number of new jobs. Unlike other forms of association of producers, cooperatives have both market and social characteristics. Cooperative efforts to make every man a worker and owner, and develop a sense of responsibility that is related to both ownership, and people do to neighbors who work for their own and common good. Unlike private companies with sole responsibility to the owner of capital, the cooperative also insists on social responsibility. Co-operation as a kind of oasis of balance between market values can survive in any society, so why not in Croatian as well. I see the particular importance of cooperative organization today in Croatia in agriculture. Market economy and agricultural economies are increasingly marketable and less naturally oriented. The necessity of bringing together family economies today, present and upcoming globalisation, productive and marketable and their individual inability to effectively engage in it. The Cooperatives Act that we adopted in 1995 and with two minor amendments and additions, today there is actually a lot of scarcity and it is necessary to change this law as soon as possible and to bring it into line with the social needs of the present moment. Although certain activities are being undertaken and in financial terms, a positive relationship with cooperatives is being affirmed in people. In our cooperatives, members are mostly employees, employed in them, and the number of farmers cooperatives is insufficient to be a decisive factor in the ownership structure. Agricultural holdings with cooperatives mainly have production cooperation contracts with some other companies or companies of capital and do not decide on important business, development and distribution issues. It is therefore necessary to affirm from both the state and local communities the positive sides of the cooperative and to highlight all its advantages. I'll give you an example of research on a sample of 130 leaders of family farms as they see the cooperative. When asked what is the main advantage of cooperative organisation, almost everyone answered that it is a secure placement that cannot be achieved individually. In other words, the majority of the leaders of the cooperative’s agricultural economy experience only as the necessary way out in the difficult offer of their products as individuals and not, see no other advantages that this type of organization would bring them. In 2003, a Croatian cooperative strategy was presented as part of the CARDS programme. The strategy envisioned the establishment of the Cooperative Development Agency as well as the establishment of a cooperative development bank. We don't have the data actually which is further working on that strategy, or it's completely rejected. The adoption of the law on the European Union creates conditions for the addition of domestic legislation in the area of cooperation. The Association of the Council of the European Communities 1435, which speaks of the Statute of the cooperative, enables, in fact, 5 or more physical or commercial companies in the area of two or more states to establish a European cooperative with a share capital of at least EUR 30 000. This kind of cooperative may actually enable the opening of more markets for the entities that join and use, in fact, have less costs which is certainly an advantage for our producers. Given that this law directly provides for the direct application of the European Union regulation, and thus it is questionable, as a colleague of the Club said in the name of Mimica, the possibility of such introduction, the introduction of such practice into our legislation and that the law itself will come into force only when Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union, it would really be good to build up domestic legislation during this period and answer the question about this problem. And as has already been said on behalf of our club we will accept such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9519	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Zlatko Kelic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9520	Thank you very much, Mr. President. State secretaries, co-workers and co-workers have begun to develop in Croatian spaces the fall of feudalism in the mid-19th century, under the influence of cooperative practice that came from Europe. According to available documents, the first cooperative in our area was in modern terms a savings-credit cooperative in Pitomaca founded in 1862. And two years later, the first agricultural cooperative was founded in Korcula. In the early 1990s cooperatives were perceived as relapses of the socialist system, however, after the need for the issue to be legally regulated by the Croatian Parliament passed the Co-operation Act. Today 13 years after the official end of the Homeland War at a time of increasingly cruel liberal capitalism, depreciated rural economies and exposure to unfair competition, the uncertainty of abandoned spaces "Beautiful our" cooperative is poorly organised. But it's known as a good idea. Because the fundamental purpose of cooperative organisation is that through joint work, they respond to the individual and economic weaknesses of their members, people, in order to survive economically in unfavourable economic conditions. The cooperative organisation is a desirable form of organisation in our agriculture especially in this time before joining the Union because small family economies will have difficulty competing with modern market requirements set at European Union level. Modern cooperatives create a particular product of growth in which each economy can produce its own resources. But part of its production market limit is passed on to the cooperative. Through the cooperative, small economies can achieve more production in a relatively fast and easy way because cooperative is a joint organisation of an economic type whose basic purpose is to respond to the individual economic weaknesses of its members through joint work. Decent data suggest that the total activity of Croatian cooperative economic operators participates with 0.5% and in capital and reserves with only 0.2% due to a negative attitude towards cooperatives, non-recognition and non-compliance with cooperative principles as an instrument of achieving cooperative values and insufficient education through cooperatives and cooperatives. Significant cooperatives in the world are best reflected in figures that say that cooperatives have over 800 million members in the world and over 100 million employees. And over 132,000 cooperatives operate in the European Union. What does that tell us? It says that in over 83 and a half million members there are cooperatives and about 2.3 million employees. If we look at it, it tells us that more than 600 cooperatives are on one cooperative. Looking at what is today in Croatia and what is the condition that, according to the list of 31 December 2007, 1019 is a cooperative with 18 thousand and 700 cooperatives and 3 and a half thousand employees. These figures tell us that something about 20 cooperatives turn out to be one cooperative, which we can judge for ourselves, compared to the European Union. If we look at the fact that in Croatia today, the register of family economies means those who deal with agricultural production we have more than 100,000 family economies in this way we can figure out where the cooperative is located in Croatia today. I believe that this Law on the introduction of a European cooperative will create both possibilities and conditions for increasing and competitiveness, and that it will be easier to access and allow for a joint appearance on the European market. Because our people from Slavonia, like and Gorski Kotar and many other parts of our country work in areas where quality cooperative organization would be the solution to a whole series of economic but unfavourable demographic trends that are present. I believe that it will be easier to develop new products, easier to introduce the latest technological achievements in the area of production, simpler promotion of Croatian products and thus reviving agriculture, but also giving new impulses to tourism through the placement of domestic agricultural production. I therefore believe that this bill should be welcomed and given a green light because through positive business experiences and cooperative practices in Europe, cooperative entrepreneurship in Croatia will find its own interest and be profiled in the future. The more qualitative development and expansion of cooperatives acting on behalf and on behalf of their members creates assumptions for the better use of own-expanded funds because one of the basic principles of cooperatives says that cooperatives must have the same wish, the same goal and a common view of achieving this profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9521	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9522	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I'm not going to talk about all the remarks that my colleague Mimica made on behalf of the club. I think that there are definitely these particular doubts about the general constitutionality of what we are talking about today, that is, the law that we're making, that is, that is, the regulation as the parliamentary representatives that we haven't been given here. It's not even in electronic form on Parliament's website. But I'm going to take this opportunity on this law that talks about European cooperatives, to talk about a problem that actually turns out to be no way out, or no solution, and I'm convinced that there is, it's just a need to make changes to the Cooperative Act. It's about social cooperatives. In fact, I was involved in a single project by playing the case, because I am the chairman of the advice of an association from Karlovac, which was approved to participate in the CARDS 2004 project on the topic of local partnership for entrepreneurship, i.e. employment. So it's one of the approved projects by the European Union and it's a project called the next step of the social cooperative and a financing contract was concluded with the Ministry of Finance in 2006. Otherwise, the European Union is participating with around 70,000 euros in this project. The project includes the Croatian Employment Institute from Karlovac and the House for the Elderly and Powerless “St. Antun’ from Karlovac. What was the project's goal? The aim of the project was to establish a social enterprise, in this case a social cooperative. As a way of hiring long-term unemployed persons in this case women, as the “Step” Association from Karlovac in its shelter takes care of women and children victims of domestic violence. Otherwise, the social enterprise is a form of commercial activity initiated with primarily social objectives whose profits or surpluses are re-invested for this social purpose, i.e. in the business of a social enterprise, or most often invested in the community through humanitarian projects. Business activities of social enterprises are not aimed at obtaining profits for owners, but are aimed at achieving fair profit from their activity. What distinguishes them from other companies is that they are focused on their social mission and the way it is obtained, which have benefited. It's kind of a promotion and ideas of social entrepreneurship. It is not unknown in our strategies and policies either. I'm just going to mention two national strategies to fight violence against women who were brought in sometime at 11 last year and a National Strategy to fight addiction. This particular project is about 40 long-term unemployed women who belong to the so-called ". vulnerable groups. So single mothers, women over the age of 45, women with no work experience and women victims of domestic violence. They are actually already qualified through this project to provide household cleaning services and business spaces, babysitting, care for older and powerless persons, for the production and sale of candles. Since a good part of them has been through domestic violence, they are psychologically prepared to enter the labour market. And then when everything seemed kind of good, so the funds that were received, co-operation with the local community, cooperation with the Ministry of Finance is a shock, because you in Croatia cannot register a social society. Social cooperatives in our legal regulations don't exist. And all this time, in fact, no one has thought of making changes and supplementing the existing Cooperative Act or any other law or regulations or regulations or anything. Therefore, because of administrative difficulties, one association cannot register a social association. She's not the only one. You have one example also, here yesterday we had here a Committee on Gender Equality along with the government office. We discussed the implementation of national policy and one association from Far away, from Erdut municipality also took care of women victims of violence. They have 10 weaving apartments they use to make clothes. They also cannot set up a social cooperative to further invest in the development of such a cooperative, or for humanitarian purposes. They even got business space from Erdut municipality in a very nice place. But in fact, they can only exhibit those products there. So, on the one hand, we are talking about the need for employment, education, the need to help the wounded groups of this society, and on the other hand, because of one administrative obstacle, we are practically putting them in front of the wall. Because basically, I remind you that if I'm not mistaken and the Ministry of Economy has come up with a competition now that is about to promote social entrepreneurship, social cooperatives. I don't know now. Those who report to this competition how and how they will actually bring the projects to an end. You know very well Mrs. Secretary of State because the “Step” association has contacted both you and basically everyone is spinning in circles. It came from the minister through his advisor. It's come to you, Chief. What the association does not want to accept is that chemistry is either to muddle or to play existing legal regulations. And according to everything they're told and what they're offered turns out to give it to you somehow, we'll avoid regulations, etc. I have to say that I can't believe this whole time that this problem hasn't been solved or solved or that nobody's seen it and that it turns out that you're going to be doing something, but if you're cheating, and not if you're doing business, you respect legal regulations. And to be clear, there are those who do so in Croatia, because that is how they manage. But please, Madam Secretary of State, because you're involved in trying to solve this because tomorrow and based on that competition, or based on which other competition we're going to bring people into a situation so that they've spent the money they got competing for projects, that they've trained, it doesn't matter if they're women, men, any group. So they trained people to get jobs, and when it comes to registering a social cooperative, then they can't do it unless they try to play the laws. I don't think that's absolutely in our best interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9523	Thank you. At 17.12, the time for registration was 10 minutes. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Tajana Kesic Sapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9524	Thank you very much. I'd like to answer to Mrs. Honorable Assembly Attorney. I'm just on this world day, an entrepreneur met with a lady and met with her problem. However, the law does not talk about how and in what way, I'm talking about the Cooperative Act, now it's not about this law, whether the cooperative is called a social cooperative, a defense cooperative or another, but it's a problem at the Trade Court when you go to register a cooperative that they're looking for you if it's a social cooperative or whatever it's called you so you can do some social activities that they wanted, so, take care of the children, take care of the old and powerless, the Ministry of Health and Social Care is looking for you, so that you're there in their Social Care Register, that you have a professional arrangement to be able to deal with this business, that you have an adequate space and therefore a commercial court, according to my information that I received, did not want to register that social cooperative. So here's what we're still investigating about what happened and what can be done because the lady I talked to said that, in principle, that's the problem. As for that, we will indeed strive now in these amendments to the law, or the adoption of a new law to include it, but in order for someone to take care of children or care for the elderly and the powerless, he must be trained for it. Not with some education, but must be in the social care register. According to my information I received. But here, in any case, the law goes on to amend, that is to say, the adoption of a new law, and we're going to make sure that these things are correct, and as far as this social cooperative project of ours is concerned, last year we had an example of Mrs. Bernarda running for people who, as a result, are drug addicts who also joined social entrepreneurship, or cooperative. We also funded "Karitas" which founded a social entrepreneurship cooperative, so that we, there are those who are registered and who are carrying out this work and the means exist, so I don't think it's going to be a problem to use these funds, and here we'll legally see what it is to do with the domestic Cooperative Act, it's unrelated now this Law on the introduction of a European cooperative, but I had to, here's an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9525	Thank you. We have a correction. Mrs. Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9526	Well, it's not a problem that the Ministry of Health and Social Services is looking for. Well, those women who run that association or social society aren't going to be the ones who are going to look after the kids, who are going to... They trained, so these women passed the legal provision of all the education they needed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem is that you kill, that you go now to question how some, if they registered something that should be a social cooperative, I ask you what you're going to get? You will come to the fact that they have not settled things in accordance with the law because social cooperative is not founded for their own profit, because of their own interests, but because of social, therefore social components. That's the problem. And the problem is that there is no term for social co-operation in our law, and that should have been solved for me. If we're going with such projects, then I don't know why we don't make it possible for those who want to help form a social cooperative. That's what we've been talking about all along, and as long as you pass that regulation, unfortunately, it's going to be a deadline for them to register. That's the end of the fifth month.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9527	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9528	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll be back on the subject. The subject is the Law on the European Union. Therefore, this law is, above all, implemented by the Council of Europe and, of course, introduces a European cooperative into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. The tradition of cooperativeism in Europe and the world is extremely long and rich. There have already been talks about it, so in the mid-19th century in Europe, some twenty years before Croatia. I'm particularly proud that my county on the island of Korčula actually founded the first cooperative, although we heard here that there was a savings-credit somewhere in Popovaca two years earlier, in Pitomaca, a pardon. But here, the first right of agriculture was on Korčula and today, Korčula is a place where this tradition is still alive and quite successful. I will mention only the agricultural cooperative in Blato which really binds many entities, a lot of entrepreneurs in agriculture and is indeed proud of both Blato and Korčula and our county and the entire Republic of Croatia. As far as membership is concerned. It's enough, I'm saying that cooperatives in the world have about 800 million members. I think that's enough data and over 100 million employees. When compared to the number of employees in multinational companies, it is clear that it is more than 20% more than multinational companies have employees. It is, therefore, an extremely broad form of association and, in this sense, the association of entrepreneurs and all those interested in the various forms of cooperatives, in fact, realize their interests. It is important, of course, to highlight the fundamental specificity of the cooperative entrepreneurship that is reflected in the fact that profit is not the primary objective. My colleague, Leko, has already talked about how it is possible that winning is not the goal of cooperative. Winning is not the primary objective of cooperative. Of course, to gain as such appears as one of the objectives, but it is not the primary fundamental objective of cooperatives, but it is indeed, indeed, the interests of economies that are much wider than just achieving profits. So also from a joint appearance on the market and everything that individual cooperatives are giving themselves as a goal. Also, at the centre of business, as stated in this material is not capital but man. This fundamental definition actually brings us back to a time of unscrupulous capital from the beginning of the 19th century and certainly that the cooperatives were at that time, I would say a concrete and real answer to such a state and in that sense it is no wonder that cooperatives were created during that very period. I personally think that cooperatives, both then and today, are a possible Nucleus for ethical business. That this is something that will have to be counted on in the future, so ethical business is something that we all need to take care of together and something that we need to strive for, and certainly through cooperatives, through this form of cooperativeism we can count on for such ethical business to be realized. We are witnessing that today and large companies multinational that have budgets significantly larger than many countries in the world are actually trying to give this dimension of ethical business special weight, and in some ways their managers are focusing on ethical business. In that sense, I see a great role of cooperatives, and I think it's a great potential that we're going to talk about in the future anyway. The fact that this law will begin to apply Croatia's accession to the European Union, i.e. through reception. And that's what I'd like to do, perhaps in some way, to relocate with my colleague Mimic, who talked about it this morning. Is Croatia joining the European Union or is the fact that the European Union will act as Croatia's accession, so membership. Both. He's both exactly a colleague. It is certain that Croatia will join the European Union on the basis of its achievements, on the basis of meeting all those criteria, criteria, etc., but on the other hand, the European Union will have to take this step towards accession, so they will, on the agenda, be the accession of Croatia to the membership of the European Union, followed by, of course, everything that follows with each of the Member States of the European Union. So both are actually true. It's both true. So it is absolutely certain that cooperatives have also had a strong impact on the life of citizens in this case when we talk about tradition in Europe, have also contributed to the well-being and environments in which they were founded, have contributed naturally and to the protection of the environment, have also contributed to the preservation of all the values of the region, and in this sense cooperatives are indeed something that represents a truly positive tradition, and the future of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and in these areas. Therefore, I am happy to support this act of adoption, the adoption of this regulation, which will enter into force on the date of accession or the accession of Croatia to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9529	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Agent and Vice President Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9530	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct the incorrect allegation that the EU member states are making a decision on Croatia's accession to the European Union, that is, the accession and accession at the same time, because simply looking at what is being signed, these are accession contracts. Member States of the European Union shall take a decision on the adoption of an accession contract, so they shall only make a decision on the acceptance of accession. Accessing strategy, accessing... It's all a accession contract, not a reception contract. [[You don't understand.]] It is therefore not a decision on Croatia's accession but rather a decision on the adoption of a contract for Croatia's accession to the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9531	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9532	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. The best indicator of the meaning of cooperatives in the world is the fact that cooperatives have over 800 million members and over 100 million employees, and that 3 billion people, or half of the world’s population, generate revenue from cooperatives. In Croatia, cooperatives have a rich and long tradition, and have started to develop under the influence of cooperative practices that came from Europe. The first cooperatives were founded on Croatian soil almost 140 years ago. After World War II, new political opportunities and the economic environment affected to a lesser or greater extent the reduction of cooperative activities. After the independence of the Republic of Croatia, the process of revitalisation of cooperatives began with the adoption of the Cooperative Law. Although the Cooperatives Act has solved some of the problems in cooperative operations, the analysis of cooperatives' work points to a poor position of cooperatives on the market, and as a result of a negative attitude towards cooperatives, means historical heritage, ignorance and non-compliance with cooperative principles as an instrument for the achievement of cooperative values, insufficient education between cooperatives and its members about being cooperative, low educational structures of cooperative members, a small number of cooperatives by association, avoiding business through cooperatives when the product has a high position on the market, a weak interconnection between cooperatives and strengthening competitiveness, etc. The participation of cooperatives in total economic activities is relatively small although participating in the overall activity of economic operators with 0.5% share in capital and reserves is only 0.2%. We heard that in the Republic of Croatia more than 2,000 cooperatives were registered in the court register. This is because I come from Zadar County, the first cooperative in our county was founded in 1874 as a fishing sputum. We also heard from Mrs. Zgrebec in 1907 that a cooperative alliance was formed and a year ago a hundred anniversary was celebrated. Of the total 53 agricultural cooperatives, 6 craft cooperatives and 2 cooperatives of the producer of the Bankstone, unfortunately, too few cooperatives are engaged in specific production. In this introductory part of page 2, among the shortcomings affecting the position of cooperatives on the market is mentioned also non-recognition of the role of cooperatives by units of local and regional or regional self-government. We in Zadar County, unfortunately, have the opposite example, but with the same result. What does that mean? Ten years ago, we began to co-finance fruit material mainly for our agricultural producers, three years ago we started co-financing of vegetable cultures, the county hired the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb with the aim of forming three cooperatives one vineyard-wine, the other is vegetable and third fruit. The goal is truly defeating. So despite the engagement of units of local self-government and regional self-government and the Faculty of Agronomics, there is no adequate goal. The main objective of this law is to enable the establishment of a European cooperative by natural persons resident in different Member States and legal persons established under the law of different Member States by means of a regulation. For all these reasons, I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9533	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9534	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me give a look at this part of the legislation, which is not my profession, but what I see and how I view this cooperative with us today in Croatia. The cooperative that is already from this day forward certainly has its own tradition and goes back 140 years. Our Slavonian village also had family cooperatives and as such it is certain that this tradition is present in Slavonia, and as is the case from what has been said in Croatia. During that period, however, there were successes but there was also a fall, especially what happened for cooperatives, these are years after World War II, so there in the '50s the cooperative then made one particularly bad impression, but also a lead in further development. There were desires and people and certain villages and places, but even in the 1960s, the socialist government gave priority to the combineds so that cooperatives did not get the place they needed. In particular, it was related to the agriculture sector where there was a trend in the development of large combinations and cooperatives were trying to establish but did not get the place they needed. Unfortunately, in democratic Croatia too, by adopting a new Law on Co-operation 95 and amendments 2001 and 2002, we have no progress in the development of cooperatives. Unfortunately, the trend that cooperatives that are now and are located, the trend that was in the 1960s, is still present in some environments so that what they used to do combine today is done by large agricultural companies or entrepreneurs so that these cooperatives are a little missing and they also take over the part of the contact that these cooperatives had with the village. And there must be different economic relations or capital law present. However, European cooperatives or cooperatives that are particularly present in the United States have, in their presence, one entirely different frameworks and exactly such cooperatives in Europe and in the United States as well as in the United States, I have had opportunities and see them create certain institutions or enter with their production into the food industry, have their slaughterhouses, their milk shops and in some way create and finalise this production they have. Unfortunately, however, there is no such thing. There's no such thing as getting worse every year, and in all indicators, it's getting worse, which also means that the drop in total income, the drop in profits, the decline and the number of employees in these cooperatives. The only growing number of cooperatives is because of the incentives given by the state and the state here give one effort. However, many of these established cooperatives have not even begun their work. And what was the worst loss shown for these 50% cooperatives that showed up in their final account that loss was about 50 million kuna in 2007 or when you look at the number of employees that each employee created a loss of 20 thousand kuna. The question arises as to how exactly such cooperatives in these economic relations of entry into this legislation can be "al pári" to European relations. I'm not saying that in a legal debate that was held in the legal section by the magistrate of Mimica on behalf of the SDP club, but from this economic point of view, just passing the law will not heal our cooperative system. I think we're going to have to talk about this part in further solving the cooperative system, and what the secretary of state said, I think it's necessary to adopt a new Cooperative Law, but the solutions need to go the other way. Surely it is necessary to start from school cooperatives, the education of young people who will certainly have the right opportunity to participate in the establishment of European legislation. It is in the state that with these legal activities, money support what is healthy in our cooperatives raises to a higher level that will be able to join with European cooperatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9535	Thank you. In the name of the SDSS club, the final Mr. Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9536	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In this short time, I will not enter into this issue of unfoundedness and each other, and on this topic of European cooperatives, I will say something about cooperativeship as a form of subjugation and as a form of income gains ultimately for survival. What it says in this explanation is three things that I'm going to mention here. He writes in the world 800 million cooperatives, 100 million employees, half the population's income from cooperatives. Another thing that says in Europe is a similar situation. But then it says in Croatia we have a rich tradition. Of course, he cannot boast of these parameters and relationships that are in Europe and the world. Tradition isn't enough. Now, what's important here is some of the principles on which the cooperative is based, it's self-help, self-responsibility, solidarity, flexibility, local resource affirmation. It is all at the moment where we live and on a large part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia so that it prefers cooperatives as a form of commitment. I'll just say a few points of view on behalf of the SDSS club and that's exactly what I'm saying. First, the experience so far and this tradition in the Republic of Croatia shows that cooperatives are an excellent model to activate the resources that are available to us. This is particularly true under the current circumstances for recovery and development. This is especially true in terms of facing or solving the problem of unemployment. This is also true because you can no longer live on one single income from one single place but must live on the sum of many small incomes. This is because we have a space with a lot of abandoned agricultural areas and this is especially true in the areas of the PPDS and in the areas of return and therefore it has to be a very serious story about cooperative or cooperative. The other thing I want to say here is this is a matter of relations with cooperatives, including this tradition that I initially pointed out. In the largest, I will not say in the entire part of Croatia, but in the majority of the environments, the relationship to cooperatives and their property, and that means to the cooperatives is the ratio of the devastation, and you've had the transformation in which the step into reverse is made. The third thing that seems important to me here is that many are local, many local resources can only be exploited at this time by cooperatives. Now I'm adding one more thing. Interest in local environments, I mean local self-government units, is not related to this individual interest and cooperatives and cooperatives to the extent that it is, as we say, our common cause. It seems to me that the cooperatives simply stayed lonely. I'm adding the fourth thing that seems to me to have a certain civil relationship. In the ministry you have money lines planned for it, you have tenders that are published and you have people who are trained to discuss it and process the submitted documentation, but everything seems to me to the greatest extent left for that individual to create a project, come in, answer it, and then you'll do something about it. That's not enough. It's got to be a common thing. I'm pointing out that it doesn't seem to be a common matter to me. And finally, the fourth thing I want to say in the end, it's cooperative. In the form of how we see it, and I think that's what we're talking about here, it has to be a development strategy, not just a developmental opportunity. I think the dynamics that we're talking about, and the content of how cooperative we're talking about so far, is that it's actually expressed through this, it's a developmental opportunity. That's not enough. This must be development policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9537	Thank you. In conclusion, on behalf of the proposer, Ms. State Secretary Tajana Kesic Sapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9538	Thank you very much. In the end, I'd like to thank everyone for a really constructive and good debate. I would especially like to thank Mrs Zgrebec, who has very much touched what is waiting for us in the next period, so by adopting this law that only takes effect with full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, we must therefore work very hard on the development of cooperatives, adopt a new Law on Cooperatives, work on the education of cooperatives, also promote this regulation, means that all our cooperatives know what is waiting for them and that they can prepare themselves for, at the time that the Republic of Croatia enters the European Union so that they can adapt and move right into association with the European cooperative. The Ministry of Economy will continue to encourage the development of cooperatives with financial support and precisely for the development of competitive cooperatives, so that those who create new added value and, as I have pointed out earlier, adopt a new Cooperative Act. Here's another thank you to everyone for supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9539	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law on the Introduction of European Cooperative Europe, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 67. The debate is closed. The proposer has adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and they hide an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please include the axes and let's vote. The result? This bill was adopted by most votes, 106 votes for, 6 abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9542	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a very long name in front of us. We can briefly say it, we call it in the profession of the Law on a Single European Aviation Area, i.e. attesting to the Treaty on a Single European Aviation Area or how the English original ECAA shortcut is used here. What it actually brings itself is this very important contract signed by the Republic of Croatia on 9 June 2006 together with other Member States, signed by the signatories on behalf of the European Community, of course, on behalf of all its members, as well as on behalf of 11 countries most of them in the Southeastern Europe region, but there are also now full members of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as Norway, as well as Iceland. With this agreement, the purpose and content of this agreement is to establish a common European airspace, which would come from the international character of civil aviation, and other than the principle of the European Community on freedom of movement of people, goods and capital, based on other uniform principles of law and freedom of business, free access to aviation markets beyond the current borders of the European Community under the same conditions of competition without discrimination on the basis of nationality of air carriers. The objective is to fully liberalise the aviation market in terms of capacity, frequency and prices and "ECAA" is an agreement between the European Community and third countries that prevails on the internal market of the community. The agreement itself is made, consisting of two parts. The multifaceted, means the part that applies to all the signatories and the two-sided one that applies to Croatia and the European Community. It is also horizontally divided into two parts, into two stages in the first and second phases. And... I link here and point out that also the observation, the implementation of the first phase of this agreement, as well as the ratification of which, on which we are currently discussing the condition, is one of the conditions that we received as a benchmark in the negotiation process and this criterion stems from the common negotiating position of the European Union and the Member States about a month ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The relevant issues covered by this Agreement concern market access and other related issues; air traffic security, air traffic protection, air traffic management, environmental protection and protection, social aspects and consumer protection. Once the "ACEE" agreement has started to apply, the Republic of Croatia will meet European standards in the field of air traffic of the same stage of air safety and air traffic protection, as well as increasing the competitiveness of Croatian air operators, simplifying procedures in the application of international air traffic, simplifying air traffic management and control. Elimination of state aid, wide range of air services and social awareness. So this agreement actually brings one full, open liberalisation in relation to the countries of the signatories and the members of the European Union. When in, we are at this moment, the Republic of Croatia is on track to fulfil all its obligations under the first part of this agreement to meet the criterion that is expected of it before joining full membership or before the temporary closure of the chapter. We expect that by the end of the year we will be able to fully conclude this and that in this way and in the area of transport we will be able to satisfy one criterion more. One small step towards joining and making. For all further questions, we are, of course, available with our associates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9543	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms. Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9544	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the Secretary of State said that one of the chapters that we last opened in the negotiations, one of 18 is also this chapter of transport policy and certainly that this law that lies before us will allow the measure, one of the criteria set in the negotiations to be fulfilled and, if we have in mind that plan ahead, which is that Croatia sign the accession contract in 2009, then it is certainly in the interest of all of us here to support this law and, of course, to support the promoter in those activities that will follow the confirmation of this contract, which are these stages of adjustments that have already been discussed. And what fundamental reasons did the European Union state for creating a common European space? Well, first of all, it is about the fundamental principles on which the European Union rests, which are so-called. 4 Fundamental freedoms; freedom of movement of goods, people, capital and services but this, therefore, freedom of this common European airspace is also based on some other principles and objectives of the European Union such as freedom of business, consumer protection and so on. What does joining this agreement mean for Croatia, its air carriers, passengers from Croatia who use this type of transport? So the creation of this common European airspace certainly means free access to the European Union aviation market and part of the European Economic Area countries. These are in this case Norway and Iceland and the markets of the so-called countries. the process of stabilisation and accession, therefore, of countries from our region. Under the same conditions of competition, which means without discrimination on the basis of nationality and with a view to liberalisation in terms of frequency capacity and prices. The Agreement further rests on the principles of resting common rules relating to safety, protection, air traffic management, the area of social harmonisation and certainly no less relevant to the issue of environmental protection. As essential positive effects of the implementation of this Agreement, we can certainly specify a high standard of air safety and safety, protection of passenger rights, increased competitiveness of Croatian operators, simplification of procedures in the preparation of international air traffic, simplification of air traffic management and control, and wide range of air services and the arrival of new knowledge and technology. Since the changes that are required and the period of adaptation to this agreement are provided for two periods in which each country, according to which Croatia, when we confirm this agreement for Croatia here, will begin to go, therefore, this adjustment period will begin to apply European legislation and thus prove its full readiness to implement this Agreement. Accordingly, the confirmation of this agreement is the first step in Croatia's involvement in a European, common European airspace, while in the latter it is necessary to meet certain criteria and obtain approval from the Commission and to fully integrate Croatia into this Agreement. It is up to us in the Croatian Parliament to allow this first step through the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of this Agreement, and in order for the institutions responsible for this segment of transport to access the fulfilment of the second necessary precondition for full inclusion in the European common airspace. While holding that it is an agreement that will bring in general a number of positive effects for the Republic of Croatia's Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9545	Thank you. Individual debate Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9546	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia signed an agreement establishing European common air traffic along with a dozen European countries almost two years ago in June 2006. What does this agreement require of the countries of the signatories? It seeks to create a common European airspace based on the freedom of movement of people, goods and capital. It would also be based on the freedom of access to aviation markets and beyond the current borders of the European Community under equal conditions of competition. Of course, the aim is to liberalise the aviation market, but also to bring legislation into line with, our legislation with EU legislation. The agreement also provides for the establishment of a regulatory framework on the single aviation market. On that market, high standards of air safety and safety will apply, as well as environmental protection and protection of passenger rights. So, not only is this agreement important to us on our way to the EU, but the Republic of Croatia is becoming part of a modern and regulated civil air transport system. And since this agreement is an international contract whose text cannot be changed at this stage. So, take it or leave it because it improves a lot of things, you need to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9547	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9548	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I will clearly be as short as my colleague Nenadić, because it really is one law that will mean one quality when it starts to apply, a new quality in air traffic. As already said, Croatia signed this agreement on 9 June 2006 with other signatories, and what is extremely important is that Croatia will also have numerous privileges when it strictly applies all the provisions of this Agreement. It is certainly most important to say that the adoption of this Agreement and its implementation that will be in the phases as already said in two phases that are not time-limited, which assumes, of course, the fulfilment of certain rules, that Croatia will actually address a number of issues related to air traffic safety, air traffic management, environmental protection, which is extremely important. Of course, there's a question of the standard of all passengers. Croatia is an air destination and it is absolutely certain that everything provided for in this agreement will also reflect the quality of the services themselves and the introduction of a number of new aviation services, but of course also the protection of air passengers themselves. Here, I think the issue of increasing the competitiveness of Croatian aircraft operators is also very important, and I am quite sure that Croatia's airlines as the most important tour operator, i.e. the aircraft operator, will actually know how to manage and adapt it to new conditions in this common European, European space, European airspace, and in this sense I believe that there is also the purchase of new aircraft. Here comes a new plane yesterday. It will be followed by three more of the same species, and that will mean actually increased competitiveness of our domestic airline, and in this sense we see a good perspective. Although it won't be easy because it's a lot of pressure from many airlines. Of course, the interest of passengers disagrees with the company's interest. The interest of passengers is to get as much service as possible for the lowest price and that is what will certainly be opened as a question of the application of this agreement, but also the time of adaptation and the time of the challenge is ahead and I think I would also say to the benefit of all citizens and those who are used by air traffic and for the benefit of Croatian companies above all Croatian airlines that we will know how to respond to what is before us when this agreement begins to be implemented. Here, I think we can only really support it, because I say there are many benefits that will come from this agreement and we can support this agreement by hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9549	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We are moving on to the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Multilateral Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations Mission on the establishment of a European common airspace. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 77. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that, unanimously with 110 votes, the bill has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9552	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here is a draft bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport, which today was sent to you for discussion, contains a series of important newspapers and introduces a series of important newspapers in civil air traffic in the Republic of Croatia. It is, in itself, in addition to the standard definition of compliance with the European Union rules, in particular, three directives, harmonize and, respectively, add to the previous point and to the precisely reasoned agreement of the so-called so-called ‘. ... an agreement or agreement on a single European airspace. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it also contains the realisation and implementation of the provisions of the Montreal Convention, which the Republic of Croatia ratified and entered into force in March this year. What exactly does this law adopt? He's in line with the regulation. The establishment of common rules in relation to compensation and assistance for passengers in the event of the suspension of boarding, cancellation or other delays in flights is the case in one good part and time-limiting, but also the substantive changes in articles which determine the rights of passengers in the event of cancellation of boarding and cancellation or other violations of delays in flights by making old names, of course, in the spirit of new nomotechnicals corrected, and the rights of passengers in their content, therefore in the rights of passengers who, in these cases, are delayed flights or cancellation of flights, may have been inadequately guaranteed, defined or guaranteed. Now they've been increased anyway. The second regulation on the liability of air carriers in the event of an accident determines the questions of the liability of the carrier to passengers and their luggage, additional transport costs and luggage insurance... inform passengers of the liability of the carrier and the rules of liability of the carrier to passengers and their luggage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Through the third regulation with which this law harmonizes the Croatian legislation which defines air traffic is given quality because especially here it takes care of the rights of persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility through a new subsection in the existing law which is governed by these amendments, the rights of persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility. That is, of course, how people with disabilities and persons reduce mobility with persons who do not have these physical difficulties are equated in this chapter and through the implementation of this Regulation. It is necessary to stress that the aid they are obliged to provide, both operators and all further participants in air traffic, so airports must also be free of charge in any other respect. By reading the provisions of the law, you will see that through the application of this law, and the application is immediately after the publication, so even before the entry into full membership of the European Union, the rights of Croatian travellers will be equated with those Europeans, which will indirectly lead to greater liability for passengers, to greater responsibility for all participants, therefore from airports to their users, and of course the greatest benefit will be to those to whom air traffic is intended, which are passengers who, in the event of delay, in the event of cancellation, in the event of any unexpected complications in relation to the originally planned journey, will have the rights, obtaining the right to provide that transport at some reasonable limits to the same destination, whether the money is reimbursed in the form of money, whether there are certain benefits such as taking place at the airport after 2 hours minimum for short flights, and further in the form of some fast meals, in the form of free call, etc. until cancellation of flights when both overnight and possible refund must be ensured, additional reimbursement of costs. Of course, more specifically, the law is very precise, and for everything else, we are at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9553	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9554	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Maritime and Transport Committee discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the bill as a parent working body. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who stressed that certain provisions relating to air passenger rights, the rights of persons with reduced mobility in air traffic, the liability of carriers should be brought in line with the relevant EU rules, which is one of the conditions of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. He also indicated that the Republic of Croatia signed an Agreement on European Single Air Transport in 2006 with the aim of fully harmonising Croatian national legislation in the area of air traffic with EU legislation. Since some of the provisions of the Single Air Transport Agreement also address the issues under this Act, this was the reason why amendments, i.e. amendments and additions, should be implemented. The Committee proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Obligors and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9555	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first is the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9556	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Applying the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport of '98. For years it regulates air traffic relations in relation to passenger and luggage transport, transport of things, regulate insurance relations, resecuritisation, etc. in the case of disputes of competent courts. Some of the provisions of the existing law need to be aligned with the relevant EU rules. This applies in particular to air passenger rights, air traffic congestion rights and carrier liability. The rules are thus laid down in the event of the denial of boarding and cancellation or other delays in flights by the fact that the rights of passengers are strengthened by these amendments. This coordination is particularly important because it speaks of the rights of persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility and liability of the carrier. The amendment suggests that these persons need assistance in airports, but also in aircraft, which is tailored to their specific needs. Therefore, it is not only about harmonising with EU legislation but also about the more orderly relations of the participants in the air traffic of the Republic of Croatia, and I would say more in favour of users which automatically requires greater liability of carriers. Here, for these reasons, the HDZ club supports these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9557	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9558	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As we know, the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport contains provisions on mandatory relations arising from the Treaty on the Transport of Passengers and Bags in the Transport of Things, the pursuit of other commercial activities, in the lease of aircraft, in the event of damage to persons and things on the ground, insurance and resecuritisation. Furthermore, provisions on real legal relations with regard to aircraft, property and aircraft rights, as well as provisions on the procedure of enforcement and insurance on aircraft and cargo in aircraft, and thus in connection with the jurisdiction of the courts for enforcement and insurance. This before us is the proposal to amend and supplement the law mentioned in order to bring it into line with the relevant provisions of the European Union. As set out in the introduction of the very draft law in early 2006, the Republic of Croatia signed an agreement on a European common airspace aimed at fully harmonising Croatian national legislation in the area of air traffic with EU legislation. By signing this Agreement, the Republic of Croatia has undertaken to implement the legislation of the Regulation and of the Directives covered by this Agreement. However, this agreement is not the only document that binds us to all the changes that we need to introduce in our air traffic legislation. Among other things, the so-called so-called Croatian Republic was still in effect in March. The Montreal Convention, which is actually a restricted Warsaw Convention. The Montreal Convention refers to commercial international air transport and the biggest changes it introduces are in the area of a system of responsibility which is in favour of passengers i.e. Air traffic users. For example, the Convention leads to the principle of unlimited liability of the air carrier, introduces a two-stage system of responsibility, the possibility of ridding it of this responsibility is very limited. It also talks about modernising transport documentation and the like. These documents are positive changes in our legislation. The amendments to this law raise the level of passenger rights and unlimited liability shall be placed on the air carrier which makes air passengers safer and more concerned in the event of some unfavourable situations in this area. It is commendable that these changes are sensitized for the problems of persons with disabilities although the practice is, for example, good at Zagreb Airport, how I learned better than in most European countries where people who help people with disabilities when getting in and out of the plane are educated and sensitive for people with disabilities, which makes it easier to board and disembark and make travel more pleasant. In this connection, I may only draw attention to Article 31a, which sets out exceptions that may deprive the travel organiser or the carrier of the person with the disability of transport and which gives rise to reasons and certain signed international regulations and security contracts. We have a grudge here, so right now we point out that the term of the special confirmation is to be thrown out of this bill and replaced by the term "compliant with their needs" as well as the term "mental disability" for which I honestly don't know where you got it from because it's a more valid term for "intellectual damage people". Well, please consider that. All these amendments are provided for in the National Programme for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2008 and are therefore in itself understandable. What is incomprehensible is why this harmonisation did not take place in the first quarter of this year before the Montreal Convention came into force. Why is the Republic of Croatia simply not more prepared to wait for that moment? But that's no wonder, because this government has never taken steps with the changes and modernization of both railways and air traffic. However, we are not the only ones who think so. Recently, we were able to read interesting news in the media in this area. Although expected to establish joint "code share" flights between the United Airlines and Croatia Airlines in June 2007 between the Republic of Croatia and the United States, this will not happen. The reasons why this will not happen are the negative assessments given by the US Federal Air Traffic Administration to Croatia by the air traffic administration after the supervision that US air authorities are doing always before such transactions are concluded. US air authorities believe that, among other things, there are not enough qualified people in Croatia to carry out entrusted tasks. The control and certification system of pilots and aircraft in Croatia is very weak. In fact, what's been a public secret in air traffic management for years has been confirmed. He's saying enough that he's working there too few employees, only thirty who don't have any operational experience from the Air Force. When the flight season is from spring to autumn, a large number of smaller aircraft owners have been waiting for a technical examination and extends registration as inadmissible. The biggest damage from this unprofessional approach to air traffic by the government and the competent ministry was our largest air carrier, Croatia Airlines. Croatia Airlines has been through strict control and supervision by US air authorities but due to a negative assessment of the day of the Air Traffic Administration, a job that would have brought great benefits to the Republic of Croatia has failed. This is another example of how skillfully this government manages our country, destroying very valuable jobs for our national air company. However, chaos in this area is not the end. Last year, the Agency for Civil Aviation was due to start to control certificates, operating licences and the application of international standards for air traffic. Of course, this did not happen within the deadline because the government adjusts the deadlines as it fits and not as they require domestic and international documents. Only after a negative US air authorities report was mentioned on Friday (April 18th), so a month ago, the government appointed leaders and members of the agency's council even though the agency's 3m kuna budget for it was secured last year. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we believe that this late, slow and unprofessional management of this government has repeatedly damaged this country, its citizens, and the reputation we have in international circles. So does everything always have to be done after the due date? We don't respect the laws we ourselves, so how do we expect citizens to respect the rule of law? It is time to look a little ahead and to make plans for a strategy that is not its own purpose but that will be implemented within the deadlines set so that such indignities in international circles will no longer occur. The SDP club will support this bill because it is in favour of citizens and brings changes that will raise air passenger rights and safety to a higher level. In the end, I must say that I am glad that Europe has forced us to pass this law at least by an urgent procedure because it is clear that our current government has not been able to recognize the interests of its citizens alone and react in the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9559	Thank you. And finally on behalf of the motionary Mr. Drazen Breglec, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9560	I thank Mr. President, and I thank all the MPs who took part in this debate and mainly highlighted all the qualities that this law really brings. Let me look back at some of the findings specifically related to the final performance and try to give further explanations and reasoned answers to some of the qualifications presented here. The Montreal Convention adopted on 99th in the European Union was introduced in 2002. From 2002 to 2008, there were three governments in Croatia with the start of the third government's mandate, therefore. Why the Montreal Convention has not been ratified before is a good issue that cannot be addressed or used for daily policy purposes in such a way that it is someone's responsibility or in such a way as to achieve a better situation in Croatian air transport. The Montreal Convention brings many qualities and certainly it is good that it has ratified itself now, certainly that we would all like to see better state and better economic situation and greater GDP and more generally stronger and better represented these positive international rules that exist, but this time we ratify them and introduce them into our positive practice through the amendments and additions to the laws that we are discussing today. As far as qualifications are concerned, the US air authorities gave a negative assessment to Croatian air authorities in their audience and that this will not happen. "code share agreement" between United and Croatia Airlines. I can perfectly deny that it is any final or final report or any categorisation that would be negative for the Republic of Croatia. Through my peers on partner basis and with the United States and with the European Union, and the audiences are very common, and every two months, some of them in some area, we determine that all procedures, procedures in which we can improve our own system. What the EFE US agency delivered to the Republic of Croatia were certain remarks, were certain objections in the sense that certain standards had not yet been met. However, this is not even a final assessment, and it is certainly not an element that would not be able to, which would prevent the conclusion of a... agreement that has been waiting since last year for some issues between the two states to be resolved by the end. However, I am convinced that through the maximum effort, through the maximum co-operation and the accelerated efforts that we have made continuously not for the last month as it has been addressed here after writing in the paper, but truly continuously, we will get to the point where these remarks will be the past, I said in the opening statement that we intend to achieve the first phase of compliance with the ECAA by the end of the year and thus eliminate all these possible remarks and get so on. The category of an American... We were therefore doing the best proof that the reaction was not from a month ago, is that the legislative framework for the establishment of the Air Transport Agency, which will mostly be an instrument that will increase the administrative capacity of Croatian air authorities last year was adopted around June last year. This law, however, also gave some delayed deadlines for the appointment of a management body for the sake of known electoral activities, post-election advances, may have taken place about six months before the appointment of the body of the board of the agency itself, but this does not lessen the effort in other parts of the realisation of capacity building and the resolution administration and preparation for the establishment of the agency. Is it necessary to look for the culprit why the Croatian authorities have trouble getting people in the labour market worth three, four, five when we talk about air traffic, ten times more sometimes than they can afford a state official position. Nor is that a problem since yesterday, nor is it just this part of the state administration, of this ministry, a general problem for all of us to find suitable solutions. We are in the area of air traffic, so we are in the dilemma of how to get a pilot who gets $12,000 on the world market in India, in Europe 5-6 thousand, in Croatia several tens of thousands of kuna, 10-20% less than the average in Europe, how to get a valid certified pilot into the state service and only such is believed to meet the norms of both the ECAA and the European Union. How to get a mechanic who is also certified, so he must have a rush, he must also have a sufficient number of hours and permanent education, and keeping him in the state service is really not a little simple. Therefore the establishment... the place, the instrument through which all these shortcomings, and from once on they are always free to, on such a condition, qualify this deficit exists in the air, in the administration, in the air administration through this process and in the next six to nine months perhaps the most resolved. [[You don't understand.]] Whether to solve the way in which other agencies, with other countries, with other countries, will be sought, will conclude an appropriate contract and thus enable this narrow expertise, engagement in Croatia or will go to a certain arrangement with the domestic industry. That's certainly another question that needs to be resolved to the end. But here I assure you from this place and I assure you that this one chronic, long-term problem will be approached in the best way that he will soon be satisfied and resolved and that we will also be classified in categories one by EFA and meet all those conditions and temporarily close down, close chapter 14 of traffic, and so will all the other chapters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9561	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9562	Here's the Honorable Secretary of State, so I'd like to correct an incorrect assumption. At the beginning of your presentation, you said yes, I was saying that the code shared flights between United Airlines and Croatia Airlines were completed, i.e. there will be no flight. You said at the beginning of your exposure that it wasn't finished and that it would be established. Now, at the end of your presentation, you said that within 6 to 9 months, some other contracts and flights will be reached, but most likely it won't be with United Airlines, or that it'll probably be someone else. Well, I would now take the opportunity to ask if it was over with United Airlines or not, because you said a little bit would, a little wouldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-05-20-0.u9563	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, tomorrow we will continue at 9:30. I hope that we will have the conditions for these three skipped laws that we skipped this afternoon, starting with the hope that we will first get the opinion of the Committee on the Final Proposal of the Law on Administrative Inspection and then return to minimum salaries and the International Labour Organisation. So we hope that in the morning we will have conditions and that we will continue at 9:30 with the point of the proposal for a law on administrative inspection. Now I wish you a vacation and a good party. Goodbye. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 73. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 106 for and 2 abstentions have been accepted by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real Rights.
